 A n n u al R e p o rt o n Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions 2 0 04 I n t e r n a t i o n al M o n e t a ry F u nd ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ©2004 International Monetary Fund Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data In te rna t ional Monetary Fund. Annual Report on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions. 1979— Continues: In terna t ional Monetary Fund. Annual Report on exchange restrictions, 1950-1978 1. Foreign exchange — Law and Legislation — Periodicals. 2. Foreign exchange — Control — Periodicals. 1. Title K4440.A13 157 [date] 341.7'51 79-644506 ISSN 0250-7366 ISBN 1-58906-336-8 Price: US$110.00 (US$55.00 to full-time university facu l ty members and students) Please send orders to: In te rna t ional Monetary Fund, Publication Services 700 19th Street, N.W., Washington, B.C. 20431, U.S.A. Tel.: (202) 623-7430 Telefax: (202) 623-7201 E-mail: pub l ica t ions@ im f .o rg In te rne t: http://www.imf.org recycled paper ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund August 30, 2004 Dear Sir or Madam: I have the honor of transmitting to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 2004, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I would like to express our appreciation to the countries for their cooperation in the preparation of the Report. Sincerely yours, Rodrigo de Rato Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director iii ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Preface Definition of Acronyms Introduction Compilation Guide Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory Frame- works for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries Page ix xi 1 2 9 12 Afghanistan, Islamic State of Albania Algeria Angola Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas, The Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Brazil Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China, People's Republic of Hong Kong SAR Colombia Comoros Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of Costa Rica Co ted'Ivo ire Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia, The Georgia Germany Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hungary Page 19 24 29 35 42 46 56 60 64 70 74 79 86 91 101 109 117 120 125 132 137 141 145 149 156 160 166 173 179 183 191 195 200 206 213 218 230 v Page 235 241 246 251 257 260 268 275 284 288 291 295 300 306 310 315 319 325 329 334 341 349 352 356 364 367 371 374 380 384 390 394 399 405 409 412 416 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VI CONTENTS Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Republic of Kuwait Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Socialist People's Lithuania Luxembourg Macedonia, former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova Mongolia Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles Page 420 424 439 446 451 456 459 463 467 472 476 480 490 494 497 504 509 515 521 525 530 536 539 545 549 552 559 564 569 581 584 591 598 601 607 611 619 623 634 639 649 655 661 670 676 679 New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Russian Federation Rwanda St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal ; Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovak Republic Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Afr ica Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Tajikistan Tanzania Page 683 687 691 698 705 709 713 722 725 728 734 738 742 753 759 764 767 773 784 790 795 800 804 809 813 816 821 829 839 843 848 852 857 863 868 873 882 886 895 899 906 913 917 920 927 933 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates CONTENTS Page 939 947 950 957 961 965 977 984 989 993 1004 United Kingdom United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Republica Bolivariana de Vietnam Yemen, Republic of Zambia Zimbabwe Appendix: Country Table Matrix V ll Page 1008 1013 1019 1025 1033 1037 1043 1051 1054 1058 1068 Note: The term "country," as used in this publication, does not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state as understood by international law and practice; the term also covers some territorial entities that are not states but for which statistical data are maintained and provided internationally on a separate and independent basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PREFACE The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions has been published by the IMF since 1950. It draws on information available to the IMF from a number of sources, including that pro- vided in the course of off ic ial staff visits to member countries, and has been prepared in close consultation with national authorities. The information is presented in a tabular format. This project was coordinated in the Monetary and Financial Systems Department by a staff team directed by Shogo Ishii and comprising Roy C. Baban, Jahanara Zaman, Harald Anderson, and Malinee Ramiscal. It draws on the specialized contribution of that department (for specific countries), with assistance from staff members of the IMF's five area departments, together with staff of other departments. The report was edited by Gail Berre of the External Relations Department and produced by Mrs. Ramiscal and the IMF Multimedia Services Division. IX ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEFINITION OF ACRONYMS ACP ACU CEEAC CEFTA CEPGL ATC BCEAO BEAC CACM CAEMC CAP CARICOM Atlantic, Caribbean, and Pacific countries Asian Clearing Union (integrated by Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) AFTA ASEAN free trade area (see ASEAN, below) AMU Asian monetary unit ANZCERTA Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement APEC Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation ASEAN Association of Southeast Asian Nations (integrated by Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand) Agreement of Textiles and Clothing Central Bank of West African States; the West African states are Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo Bank of Central African States; the Central African states are Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon Central American Common Market (integrated by Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua) Central African Economic and Monetary Community (integrated by the members of the BEAC) Common agricultural policy (of the EU) Caribbean Community and Common Market (integrated by Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago). The Bahamas is also a member of CARICOM, but it does not participate in the Common Market. Economic Community of Central African States (integrated by Angola, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, and Sao Tome and Principe) Central European Free Trade Area (integrated by Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovak Republic, and Slovenia) Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (integrated by Burundi, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Rwanda) Common effective preferential tariff of the AFTA Common external tariff Communaute fmanciere d'Afr ique (administered by the BCEAO) and Cooperation financiere en Afrique centrale (administered by the BEAC) Commonwealth of Independent States (integrated by Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan) Common Monetary Area (a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland) Caribbean Multilateral Clearing Facility Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (dissolved; formerly integrated by Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Vietnam) Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (integrated by Burundi, Comoros, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Namibia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Sudan, Swaziland, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) East African Community European Central Bank Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines) Eastern Caribbean Currency Union Economic Community of West African States (integrated by Benin, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Cote d'lvoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo) European Coal and Steel Community European economic area European Free Trade Association (integrated by Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland) European Economic and Monetary Union Exchange rate mechanism (of the European monetary system) European Union (formerly European Community; integrated by Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and, effective May 1, 2004, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Slovakia, and Slovenia) Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (of the OECD) Former Soviet Union ECSC EEA EFTA EMU ERM EU ECCU ECOWAS CEPT CET CFA CIS CMA CMCF CMEA COMES A EAC ECB ECCB FATF FSU XI ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution X ll DEFINITION OF ACRONYMS OGL PACER PARTA PICTA RCPSFM GCC GSP IOSCO LAIA Gulf Cooperation Council (Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf; integrated by the Kingdom of Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates) Generalized system of preferences International Organization of Securities Commissions Latin American Integration Association (integrated by Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela) LC Letter of credit LIBOR London interbank offered rate MERCOSUR Southern Cone Common Market (integrated by Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay) MFA Mu l t i f iber Arrangement MFN Most-favored nation MOF Ministry of finance NAFA North American Framework Agreement (integrated by Canada, Mexico, and the United States) NAFTA North American Free Trade Agreement OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development OECS Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (integrated by Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines) Open general license Pacific Agreement on Closer Economic Relations (of the Pacific Islands Forum; integrated by Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, New Zealand, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu) Pacific Regional Trade Agreement (of the Pacific Islands Forum) Pacific Island Countries Trade Agreement (of the Pacific Islands Forum; integrated by Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu) Regional Council on Public Savings and Financial Markets (an institution of WAEMU countries that is involved in the authorization for issuance and marketing of securities) Regional Integration Facilitation Forum (formerly the Cross-Border Initiative; integrated by Burund i, Comoros, Kenya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Namibia, Rwanda, Seychelles, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) Southern African Customs Union (integrated by Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland) Southern Africa Development Community (integrated by Angola, Botswana, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Seychelles, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) Special drawing right South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (signed by Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, K ir iba t i, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, New Zealand, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanua tu) Central African Units of Accounts Central African Customs and Economic Union (integrated by Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Repub l ic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon) United Nations National Union for the Total Independence of Angola Value-added tax West African Economic and Monetary Union (formerly WAMU; integrated by the members of the BCEAO) West African Monetary Agency (formerly WACH) West African Monetary Zone Exchange rate mechanism (of the WAMZ) World Trade Organization UN UNITA VAT WAEMU WAMA WAMZ W-ERM II WTO SDR SPARTECA RIFF SACU SADC UCAC UDEAC Note: This list does not include acronyms of purely national institutions mentioned in the country chapters. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION The report provides a detailed description of the ex- change arrangements and exchange/trade restrictions of individual IMF member countries and Hong Kong SAR, as well as Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the IMF Articles of Agreement. In general, the description relates to the ex- change and trade systems as of the end of 2003, but, in ap- propriate cases, reference is made to significant develop- ments that took place in early 2004. The description of the exchange and trade system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involving ex- change restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous reports, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe ex- change and trade systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on imports and exports. Following a standardized approach, the description of each system is broken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each country includes a final section that lists chronologically the significant changes during 2003 and early 2004. The Compilation Guide provides the definitions and methodology used to compile information on each heading. The report is presented in a tabular format that en- hances transparency and uniformity of treatment of infor- mation across countries and includes coverage on the regu- latory framework for capital transactions. The information serves to update the exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions database maintained by the IMF. The country chapters present an abstract of the relevant information that is available to the IMF. The report also includes the official IMF classification table on Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy. This classification system is based on the information available on the operations of members' de facto policies, as analyzed by IMF staff, which may differ from countries' officially announced arrange- ments. The table on Summary Features of Exchange Ar- rangements and Regulatory Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries provides an overview of the characteristics of the exchange and trade systems of IMF member countries. The Country Table Ma- trix (the Appendix) provides a complete listing of the ru- brics used in the database. When it is unclear whether a particular category or measure exists, because pertinent information is not avail- able at the time of publication, the category is displayed with the notation "n.a." If a measure is known to exist but specific information on it is not available, the category is displayed with the notation "yes-" When information is available on all but a particular item or items within a cate- gory, these items are not included in the table. In cases where members have provided the IMF with the information that a category or an item is not regulated, these are marked by "n.r." 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMPILATION GUIDE Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV The member country has accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF's Articles of Agreement. The member country continues to avail itself of the transitional arrangements of Article XIV, Section 2. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Exchange Arrangement The off ic ial legal tender of the country. The existence of another currency that is officially allowed to be used in the country. If there is one exchange rate, the system is called unitary; if there is more than one ex- change rate that may be used simultaneously for different purposes and/or by different entities, the system is called dual or multiple. Different effective exchange rates result- ing from exchange taxes or subsidies are not included in this category. The currency of another country circulates as the sole legal tender (formal dollariza- tion), or the member belongs to a monetary or currency union in which the same legal tender is shared by the members of the union. Adopting such regimes implies the complete surrender of the monetary authorities' independent control over domestic monetary policy. A monetary regime based on an explicit legislative commitment to exchange domestic currency for a specified foreign currency at a fixed exchange rate, combined with re- strictions on the issuing authority to ensure the fu l f i l lment of its legal obligation. This implies that domestic currency will be issued only against foreign exchange and that it remains fu l ly backed by foreign assets, eliminating traditional central bank functions such as monetary control and lender-of-last-resort, and leaving little scope for discre- tionary monetary policy. Some flexibility may still be afforded, depending on how strict the banking rules of the currency board arrangement are. The country (formally or de facto) pegs its currency at a fixed rate to another currency or a basket of currencies, where the basket is formed from the currencies of major trading or financial partners and weights reflect the geographical distribution of trade, services, or capital flows. The currency composites can also be standardized, as in the case of the SDR. There is no commitment to keep the parity irrevocably. The ex- change rate may fluctuate within narrow margins of less than ±1 percent around a central rate—or the maximum and m in imum value of the exchange rate may remain within a narrow margin of 2 percent —for at least three months. The monetary author- ity stands ready to maintain the fixed parity through direct intervention (i.e., via sale/purchase of foreign exchange in the market) or indirect intervention (e.g., via aggressive use of interest rate policy, imposition of foreign exchange regulations, ex- ercise of moral suasion that constrains foreign exchange activity, or through interven- tion by other public institutions). Flexibility of monetary policy, though limited, is greater than in the case of exchange arrangements with no separate legal tender and currency boards because traditional central banking functions are still possible, and the monetary authority can adjust the level of the exchange rate, although relatively infrequently. The value of the currency is maintained within certain margins of fluctuation of at least ±1 percent around a fixed central rate, or the margin between the maximum and m in imum value of the exchange rate exceeds 2 percent. It also includes arrangements of countries in the exchange rate mechanism (ERM) of the European Monetary Sys- tem (EMS), which was replaced with the ERM II on January 1, 1999. There is a lim- ited degree of monetary policy discretion, depending on the bandwidth. 2 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Crawling peg Crawling band Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy COMPILATION GUIDE 3 The currency is adjusted periodically in small amounts at a fixed rate or in response to changes in selective quantitative indicators, such as past inflation differentials vis-a- vis major trading partners or differentials between the inflation target and expected inflation in major trading partners. The rate of crawl can be set to generate inflation- adjusted changes in the exchange rate (backward looking), or set at a preannounced fixed rate and/or below the projected inflation differentials (forward looking). Main- taining a crawling peg imposes constraints on monetary policy in a manner similar to a fixed peg system. The currency is maintained within certain fluctuation margins of at least ±1 percent around a central rate —or the margin between the maximum and m in imum value of the exchange rate exceeds 2 percent —and the central rate or margins are adjusted periodically at a fixed rate or in response to changes in selective quantitative indicators. The degree of exchange rate flexibility is a function of the bandwidth. Bands are either symmetric around a crawling central parity or widen gradually with an asymmetric choice of the crawl of upper and lower bands (in the latter case, there may be no preannounced central rate). The commitment to maintain the exchange rate within the band imposes constraints on monetary policy, with the degree of policy independence being a function of the bandwidth. The monetary authority attempts to influence the exchange rate without having a spe- cific exchange rate path or target. Indicators for managing the rate are broadly judg- mental (e.g., balance of payments position, international reserves, parallel market developments), and adjustments may not be automatic. Intervention may be direct or indirect. The exchange rate is market-determined, with any off ic ial foreign exchange market intervention aimed at moderating the rate of change and preventing undue fluctuations in the exchange rate, rather than establishing a level for it. Foreign exchange transactions are subject to a special tax. Bank commissions charged on foreign exchange transactions are not included in this category; rather, they are listed under the exchange arrangement classification. Foreign exchange transactions are subsidized by using separate, nonmarket exchange rates. Forward exchange market The existence of a forward exchange market. Off ic ial cover of forward operations Off ic ial coverage of forward operations refers to the case in which an o f f ic ial entity (the central bank or the government) assumes the exchange risk of certain foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The off ic ial requirements affecting the selection of currency and the method of settle- ment for transactions with other countries. When a country has concluded payments agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to a pre- scription of currency for specified categories of payments to, and receipts from, the countries concerned. This category includes information on the use of domestic cur- rency in transactions between residents and nonresidents, both domestically and abroad; it also indicates any restrictions on the use of foreign currency among residents. Two countries conclude an agreement to prescribe specific rules for payments to each other, including cases in which private parties are also obligated to use specific currencies. These agreements can be either operative or inoperative. Regional arrangements More than two parties participate in a payments agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 4 COMPILATION GUIDE Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) The off ic ial bodies of two or more countries agree to offset with some regularity the balances that arise from payments to each other as a result of the exchange of goods, services, or—less often —capital. The off ic ial bodies of two or more countries agree to offset exports of goods and services to one country with imports of goods and services from the same country, without payment. The authorities' division of responsibility for monitoring policy, administering exchange controls, and determining the extent of delegation of powers to outside agencies (often banks are authorized to effect foreign exchange transactions). Restrictions on payments and transfers in connection with international transactions imposed by member countries for reasons of national or international security. International security restrictions on the basis of IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), which establishes the obligation of members to notify the IMF before imposing such restrictions, or, if circumstances preclude advance notification, as promptly as possible. In accordance with UN sanctions Sanctions imposed against a second body on the basis of a UN decision. Payments arrears Off ic ial or private residents of a member default on their payments or transfers in for- eign exchange to nonresidents. This category includes only the situation in which domestic currency is available for residents to settle their debts, but they are unable to obtain foreign exchange—for example, because of the presence of an officially an- nounced or uno f f ic ial queuing system; it does not cover nonpayment by private parties due to bankruptcy of the party concerned. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) The existence of separate rules for trading in gold both domestically and with foreign countries. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The existence of regulations for the physical movement of means of payment between countries. Where information is available, the category distinguishes between separate limits for the (1) export and import of banknotes by travelers and (2) export and import of banknotes by banks and other authorized financial institutions. Resident Accounts Indicates whether resident accounts that are maintained in the national currency or in foreign currency, locally or abroad, are allowed and describes how they are treated and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. When there is more than one type of resident account, the nature and operation of the various types of accounts are also described: for example, whether residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with or without approval from the exchange control authority; whether these accounts may be held domestically or abroad; or whether the balances on accounts held by residents in domestic currency may be converted into foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Indicates whether local nonresident accounts maintained in the national currency or in foreign currency are allowed and describes how they are treated and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. When there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types of accounts are also described. Accounts of nonresidents, usually in domestic currency. Regulations prohibit or limit the conversion and/or transfer of the balances of such accounts. Blocked accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMPILATION GUIDE 5 Imports and Import Payments Describes the nature and extent of exchange and trade restrictions on imports. Information on the existence of a foreign exchange plan, i.e., prior allocation of a certain amount of foreign exchange, usually on an annual basis, for the importation of specific types of goods and/or services; in some cases, also differentiating among individual importers. Information on specific import-financing regulations limiting the rights of residents to conclude private contracts in which the financing options differ from the official regulations. The obligation to domicile the transactions with a specified (usually domestic) financial institution. Most often a compulsory government measure aimed at establishing the veracity of the import contract in terms of volume, quality, and price. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Parties are obligated to use letters of credit as a form of payment for their imports. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses are used not for trade purposes but to restrict the availability of foreign exchange for legitimate trade. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly A list of goods that may be imported. A list of goods that may not be imported. Indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing requirements. Refers to cases where a license for the importation of a certain good is granted, but a specific limit is imposed on the amount to be imported. May include prohibitions on imports of certain goods from all countries or of all goods from a certain country. Several other nontariff measures are used by members (e.g., phytosanitary examinations, setting of standards), but these are not covered fu l ly in the report. A brief description of the import tax/tariff system, including taxes levied on the foreign exchange made available for imports. Indicates if any taxes apply to the exchange side of an import transaction. Private parties are not allowed to engage in the import of certain products or they are limited in their activity. Exports and Export Proceeds Describes restrictions on the use of export proceeds, as well as regulations on exports. Repatriation requirements The obligation of exporters to repatriate export proceeds. Surrender requirements Regulations requiring the recipient of repatriated export proceeds to sell, sometimes at a specified exchange rate, any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency to the central bank, commercial banks, foreign exchange markets, or exchange dealers authorized for this purpose. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 6 COMPILATION GUIDE Financing requirements Information on specific export-financing regulations limiting the rights of residents to conclude private contracts in which the financing options differ from the official regulations. Documentation requirements The same categories as in the case of imports are used. Export licenses Export taxes Restrictions on the right of residents to export goods. These restrictions may take the form of quotas (where a certain quantity of shipment abroad is allowed) or the absence of quotas (where the licenses are issued at the discretion of the foreign trade control authority). A brief description of the export tax system, including any taxes that are levied on foreign exchange earned by exporters. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Describes the procedures for effecting payments abroad in connection with current transactions in invisibles, with reference to prior approval requirements, the existence of quantitative and indicative limits, and/or bona fide tests. Detailed information on the most common categories of transactions is provided only when regulations d i f fer for the various categories. Indicative limits establish maximum amounts up to which the purchase of foreign exchange is allowed upon declaration of the nature of the transaction, mainly for statistical purposes. Amounts above those limits are granted if the bona fide nature of the transaction is established by the presentation of appropriate documentation. Bona fide tests also may be applied to transactions for which quantita- tive limits have not been established. Includes freight/insurance ( inc lud ing possible regulations on non-trade related insur- ance payments and transfers); unloading/storage costs; administrative expenses; com- missions; and customs duties and fees. Includes profits/dividends; interest payments ( inc lud ing interest on debentures, mortgages, and so forth); amortization of loans or depreciation of foreign direct investments; and payments and transfers of rent. Includes international travel for business, medical treatment, tourism, and so forth. Includes medical expenditures abroad; study expenses abroad; pensions (including regulations on payments and transfers of pensions by both state and private pension providers on behalf of nonresidents, as well as the transfer of pensions due to residents l iv ing abroad); and fam i ly maintenance/alimony (including regulations on payments and transfers abroad of fam i ly maintenance/alimony by residents). Transfer abroad of earnings by nonresidents working in the country. Use of credit and debit cards to pay for invisible transactions. Includes subscription/membership fees, authors' royalties, consulting/legal fees, and so forth. Trade-related payments Investment-related payments Payments for travel Personal payments Foreign workers' wages Credit card use abroad Other payments Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Describes regulations governing exchange receipts derived from transactions in invis- ibles —including descriptions of any limitations on their conversion into domestic currency —and the use of those receipts. The definitions of repatriation and surrender requirements are similar to those applied to export proceeds. Refers mainly to the limitations imposed on the use of receipts previously deposited in certain types of bank accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMPILATION GUIDE 7 Capital Transactions Describes regulations influencing both inward and outward capital flows. The concept of controls on capital transactions is interpreted broadly. Thus, controls on capital transactions include prohibitions; need for prior approval, authorization, and notifica- tion; dual and multiple exchange rates; discriminatory taxes; and reserve requirements or interest penalties imposed by the authorities that regulate the conclusion or execu- tion of transactions or transfers, or the holding of assets at home by nonresidents and abroad by residents. The coverage of the regulations applies to receipts as well as to payments and to actions initiated by nonresidents and residents. In addition, because of the close association with capital transactions, information is also provided on local financial operations conducted in foreign currency, describing specific regulations in force that limit residents' and nonresidents' issuing of securities denominated in foreign currency or, generally, limitations on contract agreements expressed in foreign exchange. Refers to public offerings or private placements on primary markets or their listing on secondary markets. Refers to shares and other securities of a participating nature, and bonds and other securities with an original maturity of more than one year. Includes transactions involving shares and other securities of a participating nature if they are not effected for the purpose of acquiring a lasting economic interest in the management of the enterprise concerned. Investment for the purpose of acquiring a lasting economic interest is addressed under foreign direct investments. Refers to bonds and other securities with an original maturity of more than one year. The term "other securities" includes notes and debentures. Refers to securities with an original maturity of one year or less and includes short- term instruments, such as certificates of deposit and bills of exchange. The category also includes treasury bills and other short-term government paper, banker's acceptances, commercial papers, interbank deposits, and repurchase agreements. Includes share certificates and registry entries or other evidence of investor interest in an institution for collective investment, such as mutual funds, and un it and investment trusts. Refers to operations in other negotiable instruments and nonsecured claims not covered under the above subsections. These may include operations in rights; war- rants; f inanc ial options and futures; secondary market operations in other financial claims (including sovereign loans, mortgage loans, commercial credits, negotiable instruments originating as loans, receivables, and discounted bills of trade); forward operations (including those in foreign exchange); swaps of bonds and other debt securities; credits and loans; and other swaps (interest rate, debt/equity, equity/debt, foreign currency, as well as swaps of any of the instruments listed above). Controls on operations in foreign exchange w i thout any other underlying transaction (on spot or forward trading on the foreign exchange markets, on forward cover operations, and so forth) are also included. Covers operations directly linked with international trade transactions or with the rendering of international services. Includes credits other than commercial credits granted by all residents, inc lud ing banks, to nonresidents or vice versa. Includes those provided by residents to nonresidents and vice versa. It also includes securities pledged for payment or performance of a contract —such as warrants, performance bonds, and standby letters of credit —and f inanc ial backup facilities that are credit fac i l i t ies used as a guarantee for independent f inanc ial operations. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 8 COMPILATION GUIDE Controls on direct investment Refers to investments for the purpose of establishing lasting economic relations both abroad by residents and domestically by nonresidents. These investments are essentially for the purpose of producing goods and services, and, in particular, investments that allow investor participation in the management of the enterprise. The category includes the creation or extension of a wholly owned enterprise, subsidiary, or branch and the acquisition of fu ll or partial ownership of a new or existing enterprise that results in effective influence over the operations of the enterprise. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Refers to the transfer of principal, including the initial capital and capital gains, of a foreign direct investment as defined above. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits Refers to the acquisition of real estate not associated with direct investment. It includes, for example, investments of a purely financial nature in real estate or the acquisition of real estate for personal use. Covers transfers initiated on behalf of private persons and intended to benefit other private persons. It includes transactions involving property to which the promise of a return to the owner with payments of interest is attached (loans, settlements of debt in their country of origin by immigrants), and transfers effected free of charge to the beneficiary (gifts and endowments, loans, inheritances and legacies, and emigrants' assets). Describes regulations that are specific to these institutions, such as monetary, pruden- tial, and foreign exchange controls. Inclusion of an entry in this category does not necessarily signify that the aim of the measure is to control the flow of capital. Some of these items (borrowing abroad, lending to nonresidents, purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange, investment regulations) may merely be repetitions of the entries under respective categories of controls on capital and money market instruments, controls on credit operations, or direct investments, when the same regulations apply to commercial banks as well as to other residents. Describes regulations on certain commercial bank balance sheet items (including capital) and on limits covering commercial banks' positions in foreign currencies (including gold). Provisions specific to institutional investors Describes controls specific to institutions such as insurance companies and pension funds. Other controls imposed by securities laws Refers to additional regulations on capital transfers imposed by law, such as controls on the listing of foreign securities on local security markets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Other Euro area4 Austria Belgium Finland France Germany Greece Ireland Italy Luxembourg Netherlands Portugal Spain Exchange Rate Regime (Number of countries) Exchange arrangements with no separate legal tender (41) Currency board arrangements (7) Other conventional fixed peg arrangemen ts (41) Pegged exchange rates w i th in hor izon tal bands (4)9 Crawling pegs (5) Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy 1 ,2 Exchange rate anchor Monetary Policy Framework Mone tary aggregate target Inf la t ion targeting f ramewo rk IMF-supported or other monetary program ECCU3 Antigua and Barbuda Dominica* Grenada St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. V incent and the Grenadines Another currency as legal tender Ecuador* El Salvador5 Kiribati Marshall Islands Micronesia, Fed. States of Palau Panama San Marino Timor-Leste, Dem. Rep. of Bosnia and Herzegovina Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria* China— Hong Kong SAR Djibouti Estonia L i thuan ia Aga inst a single currency (32) Aruba Bahamas, The6 Bahrain, Kingdom of Barbados Belize Bhutan Cape Verde* China, P.R. o f f7 Comoros8 Eritrea Guinea*7 Jordan*7 Kuwa it Lebanon7 Lesotho* Macedonia, FYR*7 Malaysia Maldives7 Namibia Nepal Ne ther lands Antilles Oman Qatar Saudi Arabia Suriname6,7 Swaziland Syrian Arab Rep.6 Tu rkmen is tan7 Ukra ine7 Un i ted Arab Emirates Venezuela, Rep. Bo l ivar iana de Zimbabwe7 Within a cooperative a r rangement (1) Denmark10 Bo l iv ia* Costa Rica Nicaragua* Solomon Islands7 Tun is ia CFA f ranc zone WAEMU CAEMC Benin* Cameroon Burkina Central Faso* Afr ican Cote Rep. d'lvoire* Chad* Guinea- Congo, Bissau Rep. of Ma li Equatorial Niger Guinea Senegal* Gabon Togo China, P.R. o f f7 Against a composite (9) Botswana6 F i ji Latvia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Malta Morocco Samoa Seychelles Vanua tu Other band a r rangemen ts (3) Cyprus Hungary! Tonga Tun is ia Hungary! 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 Exchange Rate Regime (Number of countries) Exchange rates within crawling bands (5) " Managed f loa t ing with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate (50) Independen t ly floating (34) Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy Exchange rate anchor Belarus Honduras Israelf Romania7 Sloveniaf7 Monetary Policy Framework Monetary aggregate target Inflation targeting framework Israelt IMF-supported or other monetary program Other Argentina* Azerbaijan* Croatia* Ethiopia* Georgia* Ha i t i4- 7 Kenya Kyrgyz Rep.* Lao PDR*6 Moldova7 Mongolia* Mozambique7 Pakistan* Rwanda* Serbia and Montenegro*12 Tajikistan* Vietnam* Albania* Armenia* Congo, Dem. Rep. of Madagascar* Tanzania* Uganda* Afghanistan, I.S. of Algeria4 Angola4 Burundi4 Dominican Rep.*4 Gambia, The*4 India4 Iraq Kazakhstan4 Mauritania* Myanmar4' 6- 7 Nigeria Paraguay4 Russian Federation4 Sao Tome and Principe Singapore4 Slovak Rep.4 Trinidad and Tobago Uzbekistan4' 6 Japan4 Liberia4 Papua New Guinea4 Somalia6' 13 Switzerland4 United States4 Bangladesh* Cambodia6 Egypt6 Ghana*7 Guyana* Indonesia Iran, I.R. of Jamaica7 Mauritius Sudan Zambia Malawi Sierra Leone* Sri Lanka* Uruguay* Yemen, Rep. of Czech Rep. Peru*7 Thailand Australia Brazil Canada Chile6 Colombia* Guatemala*! Iceland Korea Mexico New Zealand Norway Philippines Poland South Africa Sweden Turkey* United Kingdom Source: IMF staff reports. 1 Data are accurate as of December 31, 2003. The fo l low ing countries were reclassified subsequent to that date: the Dominican Republic and Slovenia. 2 An asterisk (*) indicates that the country has an IMF-supported or other monetary program. A dagger (t) indicates that the country adopts more than one nominal anchor in conducting monetary policy (it should be noted, however, that it would not be possible, for practical reasons, to in fer from this table wh ich nominal anchor plays the principal role in conducting monetary policy). 3 These countries have a currency board arrangement. 4 The country has no explicitly stated nominal anchor, but rather monitors various indicators in conducting monetary policy. 5 For El Salvador, the printing of new colones, the domestic currency, is prohibited, but the existing stock of colones will continue to circulate along with the U.S. dollar as legal tender un t il all colon notes wear out physically. 6 The member maintains an exchange arrangement involving more than one market. The arrangement shown is that maintained in the major market. 7 The regime operating de facto in the country is different from its de jure regime. 8 Comoros has the same arrangement with the French Treasury as the CFA franc zone countries. 9 The band widths for these countries are Cyprus (±15%), Denmark (±2.25%), Hungary (±15%), and Tonga (±5%). 10 Member participates in the ERM II of the European monetary system. 1' The band widths for these countries are Belarus (adjusted frequently), Honduras (±7%), Israel (±26%), and Romania and Slovenia (unannounced). 12 The description of the exchange rate regime applies to the Republic of Serbia only, which accounts for about 93% of the economy of Serbia and Montenegro; in the Republic of Montenegro, the euro is legal tender. In the UN-administered province of Kosovo, the euro is the most widely used currency. 13 In su f f ic ient information on the country is available for classification. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate Arrangements and Anchors of Monetary Policy 11 Classification of Exchange Rate Arrangements and Monetary Policy Frameworks The classification system is based on the members' actual, de facto, regimes, which may d i f fer from their o f f ic ia l ly announced arrangements. The scheme ranks exchange rate regimes on the basis of the degree of flexibility of the arrangement. It distinguishes among the more rigid forms of pegged regimes (such as currency board arrangements); other conventional fixed peg regimes against a single currency or a basket of currencies; exchange rate bands around a fixed peg; crawling peg arrangements; and exchange rate bands around crawling pegs, in order to help assess the implications of the choice of exchange rate regime for the degree of independence of monetary policy. This inc ludes a category to d is t ingu ish the exchange arrangements of those countries that have no separate legal tender. The system presents members' exchange rate regimes against alternative monetary policy frameworks w i th the intention of us ing both criteria as a way of p rov id ing greater transparency in the classification scheme and to illustrate that d i f fe rent forms of exchange rate regimes could be consistent with similar monetary frameworks. The categories are exp la ined in the comp i la t ion guide. Members' exchange rate regimes are presented against alternative monetary policy frameworks in order to present the role of the exchange rate in broad economic policy and help identify potential sources of inconsistency in the monetary-exchange rate policy mix. The monetary policy frameworks listed are as follows: Exchange rate anchor The monetary authority stands ready to buy or sell foreign exchange at given quoted rates to maintain the exchange rate at its preannounced level or range (the exchange rate serves as the nominal anchor or intermediate target of monetary policy). These regimes cover exchange rate regimes with no separate legal tender, currency board arrangements, fixed pegs with or without bands, and crawling pegs with or without bands, where the rate of crawl is set in a forward-looking manner. Monetary aggregate target The monetary authority uses its instruments to achieve a target growth rate for a monetary aggregate (reserve money, M1, M2, etc.), and the targeted aggregate becomes the nominal anchor or intermediate target of monetary policy. Inflation targeting framework This involves the public announcement of medium-term numerical targets for inflation, with an institutional commitment by the monetary authority to achieve these targets. Additional key features include increased communication with the public and the markets about the plans and objectives of monetary policymakers and increased accountability of the central bank for obtaining its inflation objectives. Monetary policy decisions are guided by the deviation of forecasts of future inflation from the announced inflation target, with the inflation forecast acting (implicitly or explicitly) as the intermediate target of monetary policy. IMF-supported or other monetary program This involves implementation of monetary and exchange rate policy w i th in the confines of a framework that establishes floors for international reserves and ceilings for net domestic assets of the central bank. As the ceiling on net domestic assets limits increases in reserve money through central bank operations, indicative targets for reserve money may be appended to this system. Other The country has no explicitly stated nominal anchor, but rather monitors various indicators in conducting monetary policy. This is also used when no relevant information on the country is available. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (As of date shown on Status under IMF Articles of Agreement A t-t i n la \ / T TT A r t ic le V l ll Ar t ic le XIV Exchange rate arrangements Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Crawling peg Crawling band Managed f loa t ing with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Independently floating Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Mu l t ip le exchange rates Arrangements for payments and receipts B i la teral payments arrangements Payments arrears Controls on payments for invisible transactions and cu r rent transfers Proceeds from exports and /or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Capital transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital transactions Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors T a n u o o c t i r t l s u e n m h o h e b r t i f m a e e m e u b r r w t i s f t e 158 26 41 6 39 4 5 5 49 35 11 3 66 62 94 98 75 126 105 96 79 98 109 89 143 56 136 95 156 91 •s 00_; I W3 COI '£ - - - - - - - A l n a b i a _ cd 1 < * - ed 1 A n i t a u g d n a B a r a d u b 0 A r n e g i t a n .5 A u s r t a i l a cd •fi 1 e A e z r a b j i n a T e h B a h a m s a 0 B h a r a i n , K i o d g n m o f 0 1 1& , 0 - i + i 'Sb& e .8 & 0 * c1CQ A * 1 JS CQ + * .2]> "o CQ 0 B o s n i a d n a H e r a n v o g e z i A B o t s w a n a T For key and footnotes, see page 18. 12 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first country page)2 13 e 1 1 o •a•§ e- * § e- * % ° % & o * 1 o | £ - 1* §8 1 1 1 i i ! 1 1 1 1 L J i I { I ° 14 Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (As of date shown on e h T , a i b m a G <L> O £ c 6 cd '1 >> § <u O CO1O O a d a n e r G u a s s i B - a e n i u G a l a m e t a u G O s a r u d n o H •o i 8 c3 CO1 '3 O a i s e n o d n I t*-.O & 1 I 1 1V) >v3 1 CO Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V11I Article XIV A r f i / « 1n \ / T TT Exchange rate arrangements Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands Crawling peg Crawling band Managed f loa t ing with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Independently floating Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Mu l t ip le exchange rates Arrangements for payments and receipts Bilateral payments arrangements Payments arrears Controls on payments for invisible transactions and cu r rent transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Capital transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital movements Prov is ions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors For key and footnotes, see page 18. 0 A 0 0 0 A 0 0 0 A 0 - - - - - T * ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first coun t ry page)2 15 fr * > e« S " 86 0 •- 1 1 1^ 1 | -S £ i S o o - S. 1 .- S at « e 1 | 1 i i ._ .• 8 I 1 a o is a s 1 I - 1 1 1 II tfl 1 * 1 1 1 "8 II I 1 1 1 I 1 * * 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 I i I 1 i 1 ° J! 3 a ! £ 3 3 3 . 3 3 3 3 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! si ! ! ! ! s l !! £ •£ <~ I * -8 1 <+_ o 1 -o « * « • • • • • D 0 0 o O +o e A * A a D e O Oy T + + • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • — • • • — • • — • — • • — ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • — — • • • • — • • 16 Summary Features of Exchange Arrangements and Regulatory (As of date shown on Status under IMF Articles of Agreement A rti/->1ia \ /TTT Article viii Article XIV Exchange rate arrangements Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate w i th in horizontal bands Crawling peg Craw l ing band Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Independently floating Exchange rate s t ruc tu re Dual exchange rates Mu l t ip le exchange rates Arrangemen ts for payments and receipts Bilateral payments arrangements Payments arrears Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Capital transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital movements Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other credit institutions Institutional investors N e w Z a e l d n a 0 N i a c r a u g a Q 0 <u W) 2 0 A 03 §> iz £ z c 0 P k a i s t n a j 3 cd £ D P a n a m a D P a u p a N e G w u i a e n >>caI £ h P i l i p p i s e n 1 1 I£ © i 0 .3 £ * R u s s i n a F e d e r a i t n o w R a d n a S . t K t t i s d n a N v e i s | 0 .5u w 0 - S . t V i n e c n t d n a t e h G r s e n d a n e i 0 C/3 T S n a M a i r o n D •o! £ - - - For key and footnotes, see page 18. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • — Frameworks for Current and Capital Transactions in Member Countries1 first country page)2 17 0w> 1 .a 1 o f 8 2 c ^ w w c ^ w c ^ c ^ c ^ c ^ c ^ c ^ c ^ c r i w c / D W c ^ c ^ c ^ H H f - H H H H H H H D D D D DD • • • A OY 0 DA 0 +0 * T • • • • • • • • • • • • • 0 00 T T • • • • • — — • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • — • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • — • • • • • • ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Key and Footnotes Indicates that the specified practice is a feature of the exchange system. Indicates that data were not available at time of pub l ica t ion. Indicates that the specific practice is not regulated. Indicates that member uses the currency of another member as legal tender. Indicates that member participates in the euro area. Indicates that f lex ib i l i ty is l im i ted vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar. Indicates that f lex ib i l i ty is limited vis-a-vis the euro. Indicates that f lex ib i l i ty is l im i ted vis-a-vis another single currency. Indicates that f lex ib i l i ty is limited vis-a-vis the SDR. Indicates that f lex ib i l i ty is limited vis-a-vis a basket of currencies. Indicates that the country participates in the E RM II of the EMS. Indicates other arrangements. i 2 The entries for Aruba, Hong Kong SAR, and the Nether- lands Antilles are located at the end of the table. Usually December 31, 2003. 18 <u "Oj 1 ! s 1 *1 I It * 35 <§ * 1 si 11 1 s 8 i * « £ 1 tS I w s S c y ^ ^ i ^ wa • s s g . s i i . g j f §l D > > > > < N N ^ < f f i ;Z Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Article XIV Exchange rate arrangements Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Crawling peg Crawling band • • • • • TO 00 0 0 Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate • Independently floating Exchange rate structure Dual exchange rates Multiple exchange rates Arrangements for payments and receipts Bilateral payments arrangements Payments arrears • • Controls on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Proceeds from exports and/or invisible transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Capital transactions Controls on: Capital market securities Money market instruments Collective investment securities Derivatives and other instruments Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Direct investment Liquidation of direct investment Real estate transactions Personal capital movements Provisions specific to: Commercial banks and other • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Institutional investors • • • • • • • ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Administration of control Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic State of Afghan is tan is the Afghan i. The Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB), the central bank, maintains a daily official rate defined in terms of the do l lar and based on the average of the opening quotations of a number of important and reputable money traders operating in a free market in the form of a money bazaar. In principle, the DAB's buying and selling rates for foreign cash are within margins of ±1%; in practice, however, the DAB's transactions have been limited to buying, and thus have little impact on the exchange rate movements in the market. A second exchange rate—the official rate—is applied to certain transactions of the central government (mainly debt-service payments) and certain foreign currency income earned in the Islamic State of Afghanistan. Most convertible currency transactions are effected at the free market exchange rate. The DAB posts rates for dollars, euros, Indian rupees, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. These rates are calculated using the IMF's da i ly SDR rates for these currencies. n.a. n.a. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in operations in the o f f ic ial market or the commercial banking sector. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with countries with which the Islamic State of Afghanistan ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements are made in bilateral accounting dollars, in accordance with the pro- cedures set forth in these agreements. Exchange rates for trade under bilateral payments agreements are specified in each agreement. The proceeds from exports of karakul to all countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescriptions of currency requirements. Effective March 21, 2003, the Afghani is designated as the currency to be used for all transactions and settlements of accounts unless the use of another currency is specified by the parties concerned. The Islamic State of Afghanistan maintains b i la teral payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, and Russia. Some of these have been inoperative for several years. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the government through the DAB. No restrictions apply to transactions in the free exchange market. International security restrictions n.a. 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN Payments arrears n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Imports and reexports of gold are permitted, subject to regulations. Exports of gold bullion, silver, and jewelry require permission from the DAB and the MOF. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and other articles containing small quantities of gold or silver do not require a license. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form, unless the transaction is made by, or on behalf of, the monetary authorities. Travelers may take out up to Af 2,000 in domestic banknotes and Af 50 in coins. Travelers entering the Islamic State of Afghanistan are required to spend a minimum of the equivalent of $26 a day in foreign exchange. They may take any amount out of the country that was declared upon arrival, subject to this minimum conversion requirement. Travelers may bring in up to Af 2,000 in domestic banknotes and Af 50 in coins. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency but must declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any unspent amount on departure. Foreign exchange accounts permitted DAB approval is required for residents to open and hold foreign exchange accounts domes- t ica l ly and abroad. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts DAB approval is required for residents to open and hold foreign exchange accounts. Yes. Yes. No. No. Nonresident Accounts DAB approval is required for nonresidents to open and hold foreign exchange accounts. Yes. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget An annual import program drawn up by the Ministry of Commerce covers both public and private sector imports. Adjustments in the public sector import plan are made as circum- stances change. There is an indicative import plan for the private sector, drawn up on the basis of proposals submitted by the Chamber of Commerce. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 21 Financing requirements for imports n.a. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Licenses with quotas Payments through the banking system for imports to countries with which the Islamic State of Afghanistan has payments agreements may usually be made only under LCs. Payments to other countries may be made under LCs, against bills for collection, or against an under- taking by the importer to import goods of at least an equivalent value to the payment made through the banking system. Except for public sector imports under the government budget, all importers are required to lodge minimum import deposits with banks when they open LCs. The deposit ratios, based on the c.i.f. value of imports, are 20% for essential products and range from 30% to 60% for other products. All importers must obtain a license from the Ministry of Commerce for statistical purposes. A license is issued on the basis of appropriate documents that have been approved by the Chamber of Commerce. For imports of nonessential goods, a 1% fee based on the import value is levied and is payable in dollars. The Chamber of Commerce charges a 2% fee to members and a 2.5% fee to nonmembers. The fee is based on the value of imports. Most bilateral agreements specify quantities (and sometimes prices) for the products to be traded. The importation of certain drugs, liquor, arms, and ammunition is prohibited on grounds of public policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of a few textiles and selected nones- sential consumer goods is also prohibited. There are no quantitative restrictions on most imports, but tariff rates on most consumer items range from 30% to 50%. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds from bilateral accounts may be retained in bilateral clearing dollar ac- counts with the DAB. These retained proceeds may either be used directly by the original exporter or sold to other importers. In either case, the retained proceeds are converted at the clearing rate applicable to that particular bilateral arrangement. In the case of exports to countries trading in convertible currencies, export proceeds may be retained abroad for three, six, or twelve months, depending on the country of destination. During the relevant period, the exporter may use these funds to import any goods not included on the list of prohibited goods. Alternatively, at the end of the relevant holding period limit, foreign exchange holdings abroad must be repatriated and held in a foreign currency account with a bank in the Islamic State of Afghanistan or sold at the commercial exchange rate. Proceeds from exports of raisins, fresh fruits, animal casings, skins, licorice roots, medici- nal herbs, and wool must be surrendered immediately at the commercial exchange rate. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses All exporters must obtain a license from the Ministry of Commerce to engage in export trade for statistical purposes. A license is issued on the basis of appropriate documents that have been approved by the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce levies a 5% fee based on the export value. The exportation of opium and museum pieces is prohib- ited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Foreign exchange for most private purposes may be acquired in the money bazaar. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages The DAB levies a charge of Af 0.75 per $1. A charge of 1% on the total value of other convertible currencies is levied on permits for their export by authorized travelers. Yes. The limit for tourist travel is $2,000 or its equivalent, except for private travel to India, for which the limit is the equivalent of $700. The limit for business travel is $15,000. For medical treatment, the central bank levies a commission of Af 0.75 per $1. No informa- tion is available for other types of personal payments other than medical costs. Yes. Normally, the DAB authorizes up to the equivalent of $2,500 for medical treatment. Foreign employees working in the Afghan public and private sectors must convert 60% of their foreign currency salaries into Afghanis at the off ic ial rate. Quantitative limits Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds n .a. n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments The liquidation of investments in enterprises requires approval from the High Commission and the prior settlement of all accounts. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment n.a. n.a. Investments require prior approval and are administered by the Investment Committee. Foreign investment in the Islamic State of Afghanistan can take place only through joint ventures, and an investment approved by the Investment Committee requires no further license to operate in the Islamic State of Afghanistan. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law includes the following provisions: (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul province), beginning with the date of the first sale of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports (mainly for capital goods); (3) exemption from taxes on dividends for four years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the in- vestment; (4) exemption from personal income and corporate taxes on interest on foreign loans that constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties, provided that the products are not among prohibited exports; and (6) mandatory procure- ment by government agencies and departments from enterprises established under the law, as long as the prices are not more than 15% higher than those of foreign suppliers. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Sales of investments in enterprises, as defined by the Domestic and Foreign Investment Law, must be approved by the High Commission and must be preceded by the settlement of all accounts. Capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20% of total registered capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN 23 Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 21. The Afghani was designated as the currency to be used for all transactions and settlements of accounts unless the use of another currency was agreed to by the parties concerned. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Albania is the Albanian lek. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the lek is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. The Bank of Albania (BOA) intervenes occasionally in the exchange market only to smooth excessive fluctuations of the exchange rate and to meet foreign cur- rency reserve targets. The BOA calculates and announces the daily average exchange rates for the dollar and 10 other major currencies and the prices of gold and silver. No margins are set between buying and selling rates for the official exchange rate, but commercial banks charge commissions ranging from 0.2% to 2%, depending on the amount, for cashing traveler's checks. Government transactions are conducted at market rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payment for all merchandise trade is made in convertible currencies. All transactions under bilateral payments agreement were suspended in 1992, and the settlement of clearing ac- counts is awaiting the outcome of negotiations. All contracts denominated and payable in foreign currencies are valid. Albania maintains bilateral clearing agreements in nonconvertible currencies with Bulgaria, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, and Vietnam. Albania also maintains bilateral clearing agreements in convertible currencies with Algeria, Bulgaria, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Greece, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Romania, the Slovak Republic, Turkey, Vietnam, and Serbia and Montenegro. The BOA is vested with the powers to administer exchange controls. The BOA is the only authority that has the right to (1) license, authorize, regulate, supervise, and revoke the licenses of foreign exchange market participants, as well as second-tier banks; (2) define the limits of their activities; and (3) regulate and supervise foreign exchange operations and international payments in order to prevent any participant from dominating the market and undermining the value of the lek through speculation. In accordance with anti-money laundering legislation, banks are required to maintain re- cords of all cash transactions in excess of the equivalent of lek 2 million and on all other transactions in excess of lek 20 million, and to report these to the authority responsible for the prevention of money laundering. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears O f f ic ial Albania has o f f ic ial arrears to Algeria, Bulgaria, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Greece, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Romania, the Slovak Republic, 24 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA 25 Serbia and Montenegro, and Vietnam. An agreement was reached to reschedule arrears to the Russian Federation in May 2002 under a Paris Club agreement and with China in November 2002. Albania has incurred private payments arrears with creditors (banks and companies) in Austria, Belgium, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Italy, Macedonia, and the Slovak Republic. Residents and nonresidents may transfer standardized gold and precious metals to and from A lban ia only through entities specially licensed by the BOA. Residents and nonresidents are entitled to transfer nonstandardized gold and precious met- als to and from A lban ia subject to documentary requirements regarding the source; the purpose of the transfer; the quantity; and whether the transfer involves the returning of the precious metals and, if so, the form in which it should be returned. There is no requirement for transfers of jewelry for personal use. Natural and juridical persons are allowed to take out up to lek 100,000 a person in bank- notes and coins. The BOA may authorize larger amounts. Foreign natural persons may take abroad in cash or traveler's checks foreign exchange in an amount equal to the amount declared when entering the country. Albanian natural or juridical persons are not allowed to export amounts larger than lek 3.5 million or its equivalent. Natural and juridical persons are allowed to import up to lek 100,000 in domestic bank- notes and coins. The BOA may authorize larger amounts. Upon entering or exiting Albania, resident and nonresident individuals are required to declare cash, traveler's checks, precious stones or metals, and antiquaries valued at lek 1 million or more. Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 26 ALBANIA Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas For imports equal to or larger than the equivalent of lek 3 m i l l ion, the following documents must be submitted: (1) an application for carrying out the transaction as well as a declara- tion specifying in detail the nature of the transaction; (2) a contract and an invoice (or a pro forma invoice) issued by the natural or juridical person supplying the goods; (3) a declara- tion that the underlying document has not been used to support previous transactions, which is to be issued by the natural or juridical person wishing to carry out the transaction with the bank; and (4) a customs clearance document (within 3 to 12 months, depending on the settlement of the invoice). Yes. Yes. The import of the following products is prohibited: (1) dangerous waste, such as toxic cor- rosives, residual waste from explosives, and radioactive materials; (2) military poisons, chemical weapons, and other strong poisons; (3) narcotics and psychotropic substances; and (4) animal products from countries infected with livestock diseases. Yes. Yes. Automatic licensing restrictions are applied on fuel products to support the implementation of domestic technical standards. Import taxes and/or tariffs Excise taxes on domestic and imported goods are unified. Customs tariffs are applied to the c.i.f. value at rates of zero, 2%, 5%, 10%, and 15%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements All private and public companies or individuals operating in the export sector are required to repatriate their foreign exchange receipts. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export bans apply on copper and articles made thereof; works of art; arms and ammuni- tions, as well as parts and accessories therefore; and explosives and pyrotechnic products. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Supporting documents are required for transactions exceeding the equivalent of lek 3 million. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALBANIA 27 Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Purchases of these instruments abroad by residents may be conducted through entities li- censed by the BOA, subject to documentary requirements. For prudential reasons and money laundering prevention, the BOA monitors and reviews these transactions. Controls apply on all transactions in capital market securities except for purchase locally by nonresidents. On money market instruments The regulations governing capital market securities apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing capital market securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities The regulations governing capital and money market instruments apply. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment The regulations governing capital and money market instruments apply. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing capital and money market instruments apply. Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls relate only to the purchase of land. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans The regulations governing capital and money market instruments apply. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are subject only to anti-money laundering regulations. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies To residents from nonresidents These transactions are subject only to anti-money laundering regulations. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Lending is subject to capital controls. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 28 ALBANIA In banks by nonresidents Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it is 20% of the bank's capital for a single currency and 30% for all currencies. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n.r. n.r. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position as of January 31, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 15, 1997. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Algeria is the Algerian dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external value of the d inar is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. No margin limits are imposed on the buying and selling exchange rates in the interbank foreign exchange market. However, a margin of DA 0.015 has been established between the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Algeria (BOA) for the dinar against the dollar. No. No. Authorized banks may provide forward cover to residents, and there are no regulatory con- straints l im i t ing the ability of banks to cover their own forward position. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with countries with which no payment agreements are in force are made in convertible currencies. Payments under foreign supply contracts may be made in either the currency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the country of origin of the merchandise, except for transactions with Morocco, which may be effected in dollars through special clearing accounts maintained at the central banks of each country. Payments arrangements Yes. Clearing agreements Administration of control Specified commercial settlements with Morocco and Tunisia are made through a Moroccan d i rham account at the Bank of Morocco and a Tunisian dinar account at the Bank of Tunisia. The BOA has general jur isd ic t ion over exchange controls. Authority for a number of exchange control procedures has been delegated to commercial banks and the Postal Adm in is tra t ion. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade No. No. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes, Unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence nationale pour la distribution et la transformation de 1'or et des autres metaux precieux (AGENOR); this agency is also authorized to purchase gold in Algeria and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metals. AGENOR is authorized to import and export any precious metals, including gold. Gold used by dentists and goldsmiths is imported by AGENOR. Gold and other precious metals are included on the list of items importable by concessionaires. 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 30 ALGERIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Resident travelers may take out up to DA 200 a person. Foreign nonresident travelers may reexport any foreign currency they declared upon entry. Resident travelers may export foreign currency withdrawn from their foreign currency ac- counts up to the equivalent of €7,622.45 a trip for an unlimited number of trips a year. Resident travelers may reimport up to DA 200 a person. Nonresidents are not permitted to bring in Algerian dinar banknotes. There are no restrictions on the importation of foreign banknotes, but residents and non- residents must declare them when they enter Algeria. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically These accounts may be freely credited with book transfers of convertible currencies from abroad using either postal or banking facilities, imported convertible foreign currencies that were declared at the time of the account holder's entry into the country, or domestic bank- to-bank book transfers between accounts held by individuals. These accounts may be deb- ited freely for book transfers abroad but only through the banking system. They may also be debited for purchases of dinars, for book transfers in dinars, and for purchases of con- vertible foreign currencies to be physically exported by the account holder. The interest rate payable on deposits in these accounts is fixed quarterly by the BOA. Economic entities are also allowed to open foreign currency accounts for receiving and making foreign currency transfers, including the retained portion of their export proceeds. They may transfer funds in these accounts to other foreign currency accounts, or use them to make payments in Algeria or to make foreign currency payments for goods and services pertaining to their business. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted in limited cases, such as for embassies. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited with foreign currency banknotes and other means of pay- ment denominated in foreign currency, as well as other dinar-denominated funds that meet all requirements for transfers abroad. They may be debited without restrictions to make transfers abroad, to export through withdrawals of foreign banknotes, and to make dinar payments in Algeria. These accounts pay interest and may not show a net debit position. Final departure accounts may be opened, without prior authorization, in the name of any natural person residing in Algeria who is not of Algerian nationality and who intends to leave Algeria to return to his or her country of origin. These accounts may be credited with an amount equivalent to the holdings as of October 20, 1963, of the person concerned; with the proceeds from sales of real estate by the account holder, provided that the funds are paid directly by a ministerial officer; with the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and with any other payments up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Approval required Outward transfers require individual approval from the BOA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 31 Blocked accounts Individual suspense accounts may be opened without authorization and may be credited with payments from any country. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Payments for imports of gold, other precious metals, and precious stones must be made from foreign currency accounts. External borrowing by importers for import financing purposes must be arranged through an authorized intermediary bank. Except when otherwise indicated by the BOA, down payments for imports may not exceed 15% of the total value of imports. When a pub l ic agency, public enterprise, or ministry incurs expenditures for imports deemed to be urgent or exceptional, the bank may effect payment before exchange and trade control formalities have been completed. Although not mandatory, domiciled banks may require from the importer, as part of their normal commercial operations, a deposit in dinars up to the fu ll value of the imports. Importers willing to insure merchandise or capital goods transported by air or sea must purchase insurance from authorized Algerian insurers. However, this requirement does not apply to the following: (1) gift items; (2) material and equipment imported under the tem- porary admission regime; (3) goods, including capital goods, financed by international and regional institutions; and (4) goods imported under an agreement that renders the vendor liable for transportation risks. All imports are subject to obligatory domiciliation at an authorized intermediary bank, which an importer must establish by submitting to an authorized bank a commercial contract or pro forma invoice. Import payments may be made freely but only through the domiciled bank, which effects payments in foreign exchange and debits the importer's account with corresponding amounts in dinars valued at the off ic ial exchange rate. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs There are no legal restrictions against Israel, but there are no imports from Israel in practice. A small number of imports are prohibited for religious or security reasons. Juridical and natural persons registered under the Commercial Register (including conces- sionaires and wholesalers) may import goods without prior authorization. Effective July 18, 2003, the requirement that only jo int stock companies with a m in imum capital of DA 10 million owned by resident nationals of Algeria may import raw materials and manufactured goods for resale was abrogated. (A transition period from January 1 to July 18, 2003, was granted to enable economic agents to comply with the new arrangements.) This require- ment did not apply to concessionaries and wholesalers that had received Money and Credit Council approval. Imports are subject to tariffs of zero, 5%, 15%, and 30%. Effective January 1, 2003, the temporary additional duty applied on certain categories of goods that was introduced in July 2001 was reduced to 36% from 48%. On January 1, 2004, this duty was further reduced to 24%. This is to be completely phased out by January 2006. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 32 ALGERIA Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds For all exports, excluding hydrocarbons, proceeds must be repatriated within 120 days of delivery date of the goods. Proceeds from hydrocarbon exports are considered to be surren- dered when deposited in BOA foreign correspondent banks. The value date of the deposit is the payment due date indicated in the invoice and/or trade contract. All export proceeds from crude and refined hydrocarbons, by-products from gas, and min- eral products must be surrendered to the BOA. Exporters of other products must surrender 50% of the proceeds to the commercial banks; the remaining portion may be retained in a foreign currency account held in Algeria. Exporters may use the funds in these accounts for imports or other payments pertaining to their business, or they may transfer the funds to another foreign currency account. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements The requirements are enforced in accordance with the terms of the contract. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All exports to Israel are prohibited, and certain exports are prohibited for social or cultural reasons regardless of destination. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel The transfer abroad of dividends and interest is permitted, provided it is executed through an authorized intermediary. Transfers of loan repayments are executed in accordance with the terms of the contract. Profit remittances are permitted, provided tax obligations have been met. Authorization is to be granted by the exchange control authorities within two months of request. Transfer must be executed through an authorized intermediary. Residents traveling abroad receive an annual foreign exchange allowance, and pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia receive an allowance in Saudi Arabian riyals; the amount may be provided in the form of checks that are cashed on arrival for those traveling by air or by sea. Travel tickets purchased by nonresidents for travel abroad must be paid for with imported foreign exchange. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The quantitative limit is DA 15,000 a person a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Transfers of alimony payments are permitted provided that the arrangement was made in an Algerian court and is enforceable in Algeria. BOA authorization is required for payments relating to family support payments; limits are set on a case-by-case basis. The limits for medical costs are DA 15,900 for adults and DA 7,600 for children under 15 years of age. The limit for studies abroad is DA 9,000 a month between September 1 and June 30. Indicative limits/bona fide test Transfers for fam i ly financial support and alimony payments are set on a case-by-case basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 33 Foreign workers' wages Residents of other countries working in Algeria under technical cooperation programs for public enterprises and agencies or for certain mixed companies may transfer abroad up to 100% of their salaries. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval Approval of the BOA is required for payments relating to membership, consulting, and legal fees. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Fifty percent of receipts must be surrendered to the banks. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Capital transfers to any destination abroad are subject to individual approval by the BOA. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents In accordance with article 126 of the Ordinance on Money and Credit, residents may not purchase real estate, monetary, or financial assets abroad using funds from activities in Algeria except to f inance activities abroad that are complementary to the activities in Algeria. Nonresidents may invest in bonds or other debt securities. Transfers abroad of proceeds from these investments are allowed, but they must be effected through an authorized intermediary. The transfer abroad of proceeds from the sale of portfolio investments (bonds or other debt securities) on the stock exchange may be made freely, but transfers must be executed through an authorized intermediary. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The controls governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents The controls governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents The controls governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents The controls governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit transactions, guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 34 ALGERIA Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Foreign direct investment is permitted freely except in certain specified sectors, provided that it conforms to the laws and regulations governing regulated activities and that prior declaration is made to the authorities. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Proceeds from disinvestment following the closing or transfer of a business operation may be transferred abroad through banks or authorized intermediaries, subject to prior approval. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents The controls governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply, Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad n.a. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks and financial institutions may onlend foreign funds borrowed abroad. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Open foreign exchange position limits The interest rates applicable to foreign currency accounts are determined quarterly by the BOA. Banks and financial institutions are required to meet the following: (1) a maximum spread of 10% between their position (short or long) in each currency and the amount of their equity capital; and (2) a maximum spread of 30% between total exposure (short and long positions, whichever is highest) for all foreign currencies and their equity capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. Changes During 2003 Imports and import payments January 1. The temporary additional duty that was introduced in July 2001 was reduced to 36% from 48%; it is to be completely phased out by January 2006. July 18. The stipulation that only jo int stock companies with a minimum capital of DA 10 million owned by resident nationals of Algeria were authorized to import raw materials and manufactured goods for resale was eliminated. Imports and import payments January 1. The temporary additional duty that was introduced in July 2001 was reduced to 24% from 36%; it is to be phased out completely by January 2006. Changes During 2004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Angola is the Angolan kwanza. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax The exchange rate of the kwanza is market determined. However, the Banco Nacional de Angola (BNA) intervenes actively in the foreign exchange market, allowing only modest depreciations and appreciations of the official exchange rate. The BNA publishes a refer- ence rate daily, which is computed as the transaction-weighted average of the day's rates. Authorized foreign exchange dealers (i.e., banks and exchange bureaus) may deal among themselves and with their customers at freely negotiated rates. Foreign exchange operations are subject to a stamp duty of 0.15%. Transactions between banking institutions or involving banknotes and traveler's checks are exempt from this duty. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions with other countries may be made through bank transfers, LCs, or financing and banking agreements. Yes. An agreement with Brazil is in effect. There are agreements with Portugal and Spain. The BNA is the exchange authority and may delegate its powers to other entities that are authorized to engage in foreign exchange activities. All capital transactions and invisible operations exceeding $5,000 or its equivalent are subject to prior BNA authorization. The BNA has authorized commercial banks to carry out certain transactions and invisible opera- tions not exceeding this amount in the foreign exchange market. Effective February 7, 2003, foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed to conduct foreign exchange transactions may deal only in banknotes and traveler's checks and execute current invisible operations of a private nature (Central Bank Instructive No. 2/2003). International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Yes. Yes. Yes. 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 36 Private ANGOLA Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are permitted to hold and trade gold only in the form of jewelry. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold in coin and bullion form are subject to BNA monopoly. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of domestic currency are prohibited. Residents may take out up to the equivalent of $10,000 in foreign exchange. Amounts ex- ceeding this limit require purchase documents, including statements regarding the reason for the purchase. Nonresidents may take out up to $5,000; amounts exceeding this limit may be taken out only if previously declared upon arrival in the country. Exports of bank- notes and traveler's checks by banking institutions require prior authorization from the governor of the BNA. Imports of domestic currency are prohibited. Residents may bring in up to the equivalent of $10,000 in foreign currency or traveler's checks. For nonresidents, amounts in excess of $5,000 must be declared upon arrival. Banking institutions are free to import banknotes and traveler's checks, but they must submit a monthly report to the BNA. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Checkbooks may not be issued against accounts of juridical or natural persons. These accounts may be credited with foreign currency or any other instruments accepted internationally and accrued interest. These accounts may be debited with the withdrawal or sale of foreign exchange to settle imports or capital payments, as allowed by law. Transfers between these accounts are permitted, but overdrafts are not. With BNA approval, juridical persons are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts abroad that may be credited with their export receipts and may be debited for payments for imports of goods and services and debt service payments. For natural persons, no approval is required for holding these accounts. With BNA authorization, diamond and other mineral companies are allowed to retain escrow accounts in banks abroad as a guarantee against foreign borrowing. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. No. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited with foreign currency imported from abroad, with the accrued interest, or with sums from nonresidents' type A domestic currency accounts. They may be debited for the withdrawal or sale of foreign currency, payments for foreign currency expenditures, or the repatriation of amounts authorized by the BNA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Domestic currency accounts ANGOLA 37 Nonresidents may open two types of domestic currency accounts: type A and type B. A type A account may be credited with the proceeds from sales of funds from foreign ex- change accounts and, after obtaining prior BNA authorization, with receipts from a non- resident's activities in Angola. These accounts may be debited for payments of local ex- penses and against purchases of foreign currency to be deposited in a foreign currency account held by the same entity. A type B account may only be credited with receipts from the nonresident's activity in the country (when authorized by the BNA), and may be debited only for payment of local expenses. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Preshipment inspection is required in the following cases: imports by government institu- tions and pub l ic companies, as well as any other merchandise selected by the customs ad- ministration, and imports of buses, mechanical accessories, new and used cars, motorcy- cles, receivers and transistors, broadcasting equipment, telecommunications devices, telex equipment, televisions, trucks, and scrap metal. Imports by juridical and natural persons of goods valued at more than the equivalent of $5,000 and $10,000, respectively, also require preshipment inspection. Imports of goods of lesser value are subject to inspection if the frequency is more than once every quarter. Restrictions apply to imports of currency, toxic products, and certain drugs. Imports of arms and ammunition for personal use are subject to authorization by the Ministry of the Interior. Imports are not subject to licenses, but must be registered under the REM (entry merchan- dise registration) system for statistical purposes. Import taxes and/or tariffs The tariff system consists of eight rates: 1%, 2%, 5%, 10%, 20%, 25%, 30%, and 35%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly The stamp tax is collected through the exchange system. Oil products and derivatives may be imported only by the public oil company. Arms and ammun i t ion for warfare may be imported only by the state. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Domestic oil companies must surrender all their export proceeds to the BNA. Foreign oil companies are allowed, with BNA authorization, to retain their export receipts abroad for payments of imports of goods and services, interest and profits transfer, and the amortiza- tion of capital. These companies must use funds from abroad for payment of royalties, taxes, and local expenses. Foreign exchange earnings by the non-oil sector must be surren- dered to domestic banks. Diamond companies are allowed to retain in local banks a per- centage of the receipts from exports for payments for imports of goods and services. They may also retain part of their receipts abroad in escrow accounts, with BNA authorization, as a guarantee against foreign borrowing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 38 ANGOLA Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Exports are not subject to licenses, but must be registered under the RSM (exit merchandise registration system) for statistical purposes. Reexports of goods other than personal belong- ings are prohibited. Exports of arms, ammunition, and cultural artifacts are prohibited. Spe- cial export regimes apply to aircraft, animals and animal products, historical objects, and petroleum. Export taxes Export taxes consist of six rates: 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, and 10%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Effective February 7, 2003, banks must obtain BNA authorization in order to effect pay- ments for invisible transactions in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent for each transaction (Central Bank Instructive No. 4/2003). Service contracts with nonresidents in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent are subject to li- censing. Prior approval Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval Foreign investors are authorized by the BNA to remit profits and dividends, after payment of taxes and fu l f i l lment of other legal requirements. Residents may, upon presentation of a passport and an airline ticket, purchase foreign ex- change from financial institutions as follows: for personal travel, the equivalent of $10,000 a person a trip; for business travel, a maximum of $500 a day for up to 30 days; for educa- tional, scientific, or cultural purposes, $2,000 a person a month (limited to residents who are temporarily abroad); and for medical treatment without an invoice, a maximum of $10,000 (prior to February 7, 2003, $5,000). The amount for medical treatment is unlimited if paid directly to the bank account of the hospital. Prior approval is required for the payment of pensions in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent. Up to the equivalent of $2,000 a month may be authorized to Angolans or foreigners resid- ing abroad who are direct descendants of and financially dependent on residents of Angola. Yes. Only banks may issue credit cards. Use of credit cards abroad is limited to the equivalent of $10,000. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANGOLA 39 Surrender requirements Service earnings must be surrendered to a bank, unless the provider is authorized by the BNA to retain a certain proportion of the proceeds. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions Foreign investment activities (i.e., the setting up of new companies or branches, but also acquisition of equity, total or partial takeover of operations, and lending related to profit sharing) are subject to the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law as well as the provisions of foreign exchange legislation and regulations. Implementation is the responsibility of the Foreign Investment Institute. Foreign investments in the areas of petroleum production, diamond m in ing, and f inanc ial institutions are governed by separate legislation. Effective February 7, 2003 (Central Bank Instructive No. 1/2003), all capital transactions must be conducted through authorized banks and require BNA approval and licensing. Banks may perform certain capital transactions, such as those that involve donations and inheritance from abroad, without BNA approval. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls apply on all capital and money market instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.r. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Operations are subject to licensing for statistical purposes only. By residents to nonresidents Suppliers' credits must be reported to the BNA. To residents from nonresidents Suppliers' credits must be reported to the BNA. Financial credits Financial credits are subject to licensing from the BNA. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Angolan citizens are permitted to invest abroad, in accordance with the Exchange Control Law. Effective May 3, 2003, foreign investments are subject to the provisions of the Private In- vestment Law (2003) as well as foreign exchange laws and regulations. Foreign investment is prohibited in the following areas: (1) defense, internal public order, and state security; (2) central banking and currency issue; and (3) other areas reserved for the state. With prior approval of the MOF, foreign investors are guaranteed the right to transfer abroad the proceeds of the sale of investments, including gains and amounts owed to them after payment of taxes due. Controls on real estate transactions Controls apply on all these transactions. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Controls apply on all these transactions. Borrowing abroad Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 40 ANGOLA Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks may lend locally in foreign exchange to resident exporters. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Effective September 2, 2003, the reserve requirement for demand deposits in both local and foreign currencies is 15% (Central Bank Instructive No. 10/2003). Prior to this date, de- mand deposits in local currency were subject to a reserve requirement of 30%. The reserve requirement coefficient is calculated weekly, based on the average deposits held in the previous week. Up to 5% of the reserve requirement base may be held in securities or treasury bonds of the BNA. The coefficient of the reserve requirement for central govern- ment deposits in local and foreign currencies is 100%. The reserve requirements must be settled in domestic currency. Liquid asset requirements The liquid asset requirement is 50% of the foreign exchange portfolio. Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Banks may lend locally in foreign exchange only to resident exporters. Yes. Yes. Effective February 7, 2003, banks may hold daily foreign exchange positions of up to 20% of their own funds (Central Bank Instructive No. 06/2003). Prior to this date, banks could hold daily foreign exchange positions of up to the equivalent of $500,000. Effective October 17, 2003, foreign exchange bureaus may hold daily foreign exchange positions of up to 10 times their social capital (Central Bank Instructive No. 15/2003). Previously, for foreign exchange bureaus, the amount was up to $150,000. Banks must sell any excess above the 20% limit to the BNA. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n.r. n.r. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts February 7. Foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed to conduct foreign exchange trans- actions were allowed to deal only in banknotes and traveler's checks and execute current invisible operations of a private nature (Central Bank Instructive No. 2/2003). Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers February 7. Banks were required to obtain BNA authorization in order to effect payments for invisibles in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent for each transaction (Central Bank In- structive No. 4/2003). February 7. The limit for noninvoiced payments for medical treatment was increased to the equivalent of $10,000 from $5,000. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments February 7. According to Central Bank Instructive No. 1/2003, all capital transactions were required to be conducted through authorized banks and required BNA approval and licensing. Banks could perform certain capital transactions, such as those that involve donations and inheritance from abroad, without BNA approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on direct investment Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions ANGOLA 41 May 3. Foreign investments were made subject to the provisions of the Private Investment Law (2003) and the foreign exchange laws and regulations. February 7. Banks could hold daily foreign exchange positions of up to 20% of their own funds (Central Bank Instructive No. 06/2003). Previously, the limit was up to the equiva- lent of $500,000 September 2. The reserve requirement for demand deposits in both local and foreign cur- rencies was unified at 15% (Central Bank Instructive No. 10/2003). Prior to this date, de- mand deposits in local currency were subject to a reserve requirement of 30%. October 17. Foreign exchange bureaus could hold daily open foreign exchange positions of up to 10 times the social capital (Central Bank Instructive No. 15/2003). Previously, the limit was up to the equivalent of $150,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 22, 1983. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the Eastern Caribbean dollar issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar under a currency board arrange- ment at ECS2.70 per US$1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market A foreign exchange levy of 1% is applied on purchases of foreign currency. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with residents of member countries of the CARICOM must be made either in the currency of the country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Exports to Jamaica are settled in U.S. dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Use of foreign exchange among residents Yes. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Antigua and Barbuda is a member of the CARICOM. Yes. The MOF applies controls to all foreign exchange transactions. However, up to the equiva- lent of EC$250,000 in foreign currency may be purchased without MOF approval. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Measures have been taken to freeze the assets of terrorists and terrorist organizations. These measures were taken in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Yes. No. Exports of domestic currency outside the ECCU are subject to l im i ts prescribed by the ECCB. Foreign currency Yes. 42 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA 43 On imports Foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted External accounts may be opened, especially in tourist-oriented industries or in export trade where receipts are primarily in foreign currency and a large number of inputs are imported or financed in foreign currency. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Commercial banks are required to report external accounts operations to the MOF on a monthly basis. n.a. n.r. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required External accounts may be maintained in any currency and may be credited with receipts from sales of merchandise (whether from export-oriented or local production) or from remittances. Commercial banks are required to report external accounts operations to the MOF on a monthly basis. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Yes. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports n.a. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of docu- mentary evidence. Up to EC$250,000 a transaction may be purchased in foreign currency without MOF approval. Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Certain goods require individual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Antigua and Barbuda follows the CARICOM rules of origin. Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Most goods may be freely imported under OGLs granted by the MOF and the Ministries of Industry and Commerce. Customs duty rates range from zero to 35% for nearly all items. The CARICOM CET is applied. As a result, tariffs on imports from CARICOM countries range from zero to 20%. There are no customs duties on a number of items, including milk and poultry. Some goods, including basic foods and agricultural goods, are exempt from customs duties. Other exemptions for machinery, equipment, and raw materials are granted on a case-by-case basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA State import monopoly There is a monopoly on imports of vegetable and petroleum products. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Other Export licenses Export taxes n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Reexports are not subject to any tax if transactions take place within the bonded area. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for certain categories of invisibles (related to authorized imports) exceeding EC$250,000 require prior approval. No controls apply on payments for freight, insurance, unloading and storage costs, administrative expenses, commissions, and profits and dividends. Profits may be remitted in fu ll after compliance with corporate income tax payments. Veri- fication is not applied in practice; the authorities, however, can decide to undertake such verification. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is required only for amounts exceeding the equivalent of EC$250,000. Yes. Yes. Information is not available on the transfer of pensions. Payments related to family maintenance are permitted. Payments for alimony are allowed if provided for by contract. For payments related to medical expenses and studies abroad, approval on a case-by-case basis is required only for amounts exceeding the equivalent of EC$250,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits These remittances are allowed, if provided for in the contract. Yes. Yes. Payments for consulting and legal fees are allowed, if provided for in the contract. The limit for subscriptions and membership fees is ECS 10,000 a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA 45 Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Large transfers abroad for investment purposes may be made in phases over time by the Financial Secretary. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents An alien landholding license is required, and the purchase must be approved by the cabinet. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Under the laws governing offshore financial institutions (1) the International Financial Sector Authority was created, with responsibility for licensing offshore financial institu- tions; (2) annual inspections of offshore financial institutions are conducted; (3) the mini- mum capital requirement for offshore banks is the equivalent of US$5 million, of which US$1.5 million is to be deposited in the domestic banking system; (4) all bank directors are to be natural persons, at least one of whom must be a national of Antigua and Barbuda; and (5) offshore banks are allowed to extend credit to the Antiguan and Barbudan government. MOF approval is required for these transactions. Loans are subject to a 3% stamp duty, n.a. n.a. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 14, 1968. Currency The currency of Argentina is the Argentine peso. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements The exchange rate of the Argentine peso is determined in the interbank market in which the Central Bank of Argentina (BCRA) plays an active role. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through the free and un if ied foreign exchange market (MULC). No. No. There are two forward markets; transactions in these markets are settled by netting in domestic currency. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions with countries with which there are no payments agreements must be settled in freely convertible currencies. Effective January 2, 2003, there is a monthly ceiling of the equivalent of US$150,000 on foreign exchange purchases by residents for various purposes (previously, US$100,000). This limit was raised to US$200,000 on March 13, 2003; to US$300,000 (or an amount equal to tax payments on monthly financial transactions, whichever is greater) on March 27, 2003; and to US$500,000 (or an amount equal to three times the tax payments on monthly financial transactions, whichever is greater) on May 6, 2003. Controls on the use of domestic currency Domestic banknotes and coins may be used for buying foreign exchange for any purpose, in accordance with BCRA authorization requirements. Foreign exchange sales are settled with peso banknotes, personal checks, or an account debit. Previously, these transactions were subject to the "corralito" account arrangement, which restricted the flow of funds outside the banking system by limiting cash withdrawals and directing domestic payments into accounts within the banking system. Reprogrammed deposits under "corralon" frozen time deposits may be used only for a few domestic pay- ments and transfers. For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Yes. Yes. Effective June 30, 2003, the use of foreign exchange in the local market must be registered with the BCRA; foreign exchange entering the local market may be transferred abroad only after a lapse of 180 calendar days (the 180-day m in imum does not apply to foreign trade and direct investment operations). Use of foreign exchange among residents Transactions in foreign currencies are permitted, and contracts based thereon are legally enforceable. Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Yes. 46 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 47 Operative Regional arrangements Argentina has agreements with Cuba, Malaysia, and Russia. Payments between Argentina and these countries are settled on a voluntary basis through accounts opened at the BCRA and the other central banks concerned, with the exception of Cuba, where settlement through the accounts specified in the agreement concerned is obligatory. Within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA, payments between Argentina and other LAIA countries are settled voluntarily through payments agreements and a reciprocal credit mechanism. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Exchange regulations are established by the BCRA in accordance with the policy set by the national executive. All exchange transactions must be carried out through specially authorized entities. These authorized entities include banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, exchange offices, and f inanc ial companies. Each type of institution is subject to separate regulations. Authorized entities may enter into foreign currency swaps with (1) foreign banks whose head office is located in a member country of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and are rated at least A by a rating agency listed in the registry of the BCRA; (2) entities owned by a foreign government; and (3) branches of state-owned banks in Argentina. BCRA approval is required for transactions with other counterparts. Transfers of foreign banknotes abroad against imports of domestic banknotes exceeding the equivalent of US$5,000 a month require BCRA approval. Restrictions are imposed on current payments with respect to Iraq, Libya, and Serbia and Montenegro. Effective March 27, 2003, payments of external arrears up to US$5 million are permitted under certain conditions. On May 6, 2003, this limit was lifted. Effective January 27, 2003, an agreement was entered into whereby nonfmanc ial private sector entities with unrestructured external obligations may make transfers to a U.S. dollar- denominated trust fund for a period of 60 days in amounts no greater than 3% of the exter- nal debt in arrears, with the understanding that these funds will be used to cancel debt obli- gations once outstanding debts have been restructured. Effective February 13, 2003, the limit on transfers to a U.S. dollar-denominated trust fund by nonfmancial private sector entities with unrestructured external obligations was raised to 5% of internal debt in arrears. On May 6, 2003, this limit was lifted. Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Financial institutions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coins or gold bars among themselves, and may buy such gold from their clients, as well as other precious metals, the market value of which is based on the daily list prices of major transactions. Imports of gold bars are not restricted. Imports of gold by industrial users are subject to a statistical duty of 0.5% and a sales tax. Authorized institutions may export gold coins or bullion to entities abroad with prior BCRA authorization. Proceeds from gold exports must be received in convertible currencies. Exports of coins and precious metals exceeding US$10,000 or its equivalent require BCRA approval. Exports of foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of US$10,000 require prior BCRA authorization and must be made through entities subject to supervision by the Superin- tendency of Financial and Exchange Entities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 48 ARGENTINA Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Authorized banks may open demand deposit accounts in dollars, and time deposits, private securities, and term investments may be denominated in dollars and euros. Authorized banks may open deposit accounts in other foreign currencies with BCRA approval. In addi- tion, they may accept deposits of public and private securities and term investments in dol- lars and euros. In all cases, the appropriate identification requirements (intended, inter alia, to prevent money laundering) must be met. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts The regulations governing resident accounts apply. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Effective January 1, 2003, the minimum financing requirements on all imports were lifted. Imports of goods may be paid in fu ll in advance with proof of imports within 180 days of the advance payment (this limit is extended in the case of capital goods). Previously, mini- mum financing requirements were imposed on import payments that could be made at the official exchange rate and on the unified market. Consumer goods may be fully financed abroad for periods of 45, 90, or 180 days, depending on the type of product, and capital goods with values of less than the equivalent of US$200,000 could be financed abroad for up to 30% of their value, and the remainder financed abroad for a minimum period of 180 days after shipment; capital goods valued at more than US$200,000 could be financed abroad for up to 20% of their value, and the remainder may be financed abroad for a mini- mum of 360 days after shipment. These requirements were eased gradually prior to their elimination. Effective May 1, 2003, all restrictions on advance payments were lifted. Exporters could make advance payments for imports up to 20 days with their export receipts. Effective January 7, 2003, goods less than the equivalent of US$20,000 (f.o.b. value) in value could be paid fully in advance; capital goods between US$20,000 and US$100,000 could be paid in advance up to 30% of the import value and the rest must be financed abroad for a mini- mum period of 90 days after shipping; goods between US$100,000 and US$200,000 may be paid in advance up to 30% of the import value and must be financed abroad for a mini- mum period of 180 days; and amounts exceeding US$200,000 could be paid in advance up to 20% of the import value and the rest financed abroad for a minimum period of 360 days (an additional 15% could be prepaid upon receipt of bills of lading). Prior to that date, these regulations applied to capital goods only. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 49 Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are required for paper products and footwear. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Restrictions are in force for security, hygiene, and public health reasons. OGLs are required for a limited list of products. Trade with Brazil in the automobile sector is subject to an administered trade agreement. Under bilateral agreements there are quotas with preferential tariffs for automobile sector products. Nontariff barriers are not applied to intra-MERCOSUR trade. Argentina, however, applies a special regime to sugar imports with the authorization of MERCOSUR, pending agree- ment on a common regime for this sector. Imports of secondhand clothing, used and re- treaded tires, and some used capital goods are prohibited, except for import by nonprofit organizations. Argentina and MERCOSUR apply a CET to imports from the rest of the world that encom- passes all products. CET rates currently range from zero to 20%. Argentina is following a timetable for convergence with the CET for a list of computer and telecommunications products un t il 2006. The national list of exception now covers 100 products with a maxi- mum tar iff of 26%. The import tariffs on some capital goods and computer and telecom- munications products may be reduced to zero. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be repatriated and sold in the foreign exchange market within a maximum of 60 to 360 days, depending on the types of products involved (in accordance with the terms stipulated by the Secretariat of Industry, Commerce, and Mines). In addition to the term stipulated by the Secretariat, the BCRA may stipulate a repatriation period of 10 business days. On March 25, 2003, this period was reduced to 5 business days, and it was subsequently extended to 30 business days on March 27, 2003, and to 90 days on May 6, 2003. Proceeds from exports of capital and finished goods may be repatriated within up to three years if they are covered by a guarantee from banks abroad in the form of an LC or letter of guarantee. Export proceeds need not be repatriated for (1) exports that have received specific exemptions under law or executive decrees and have been contracted with the government; (2) exports that are to be used to settle export advances or service principal and interest on export f inanc ing and prefinancing loans; (3) exports that have been earmarked to service properly recorded financial contracts that include a guarantee in effect on or since November 30, 2001 (subject to BCRA approval); and (4) proceeds from exports that will be used to repay principal on financial liabilities to foreign entities outstanding on November 30, 2001, that have been restructured on terms exceeding five years on average (subject to BCRA approval). Effec t ive May 6, 2003, the requirement to surrender certain export proceeds to the BCRA was l i f ted. Surrender requirements apply only to operations settled outside the terms estab- lished in the exchange regulation at an exchange rate in effect on the due date of the trans- action if that rate is lower than the rate on the day of actual settlement. Previously, export- ers were required to surrender export proceeds exceeding a threshold to the BCRA at the market rate; effective January 16, 2003, this threshold was raised to the equivalent of US$ 1 m i l l ion (previously, US$200,000) and the surrender requirement for receipts from export f inanc ing and advance payments was eliminated. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for exports of arms, sensitive goods, and military materials. There are quantitative restrictions on exports of protected animal species. Export duties ranging from 5% to 20% apply to all exports, except for some fuels. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50 ARGENTINA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Effective January 1, 2003, no restrictions apply on payments for current transfers. Previously, a limit applied to purchase of foreign exchange without prior authorization. Effective January 1, 2003, payments of profits, dividends, or interest do not require prior approval. Previously, prior approval was required to make interest payments on bonds and financial obligations on local government debt. In addition, prior authorization of the BCRA was required for remittance of profit and dividends. Effective January 1, 2003, no restrictions apply on payments of reinsurance. Previously, payments of reinsurance premiums required prior verification from the National Superin- tendency of Insurance of the validity of the payment. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports of services must be repatriated and either sold in the foreign ex- change market or deposited in a foreign exchange account within 105 business days of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Effective January 2, 2003, repayment of the principal on nonfmanc ial private sector debts no longer requires BCRA prior approval, provided that the amount paid by the original financial debtor did not exceed a monthly equivalent of US$150,000 (this ceiling was raised to US$300,000 on February 13, 2003, and to US$1 million on March 13, 2003). Effective February 13, 2003, the prior approval requirement for servicing of nonfmancial private sector debts was abolished, provided that servicing related to financial debts did not exceed the equivalent of US$1 million (this ceiling was raised to US$3 million on March 13, 2003, and to US$5 million on March 27, 2003). Effective May 6, 2003, the prior ap- proval requirement for servicing of nonfmancial and financial private sector debts was abolished, except for servicing of debts by financial entities that have opted for the BCRA's refinancing mechanism. In these cases, the financial entities must present a restructuring plan for their external liabilities to the BCRA for approval. Once approved, payments may be made in accordance with the schedule agreed to with the creditors without farther BCRA approval. BCRA regulations require that new financing in the form of f inanc ial credits to or bond issues by private borrowers be matched by foreign exchange sales to the MULC and the funds remain in the country for a m in imum of 180 days. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Under the regulations of the National Securities Commission (CNV), foreign and Argentine issuers must meet the same requirements to make a public offering of securities in Argen- t ina. Both must establish a permanent representative off ice and a domicile in Argentina to receive notices. Foreign issuers must state whether the securities are also being offered to the public in their country of origin and specify the initial and periodic information re- quirements to which they are subject. If the CNV believes that the regulations in the coun- try of origin properly protect local investors and guarantee an adequate flow of information, the CNV may lower the requirements for these issuers. The CNV may authorize foreign issuers on a case-by-case basis to submit only such information as they would periodically submit to the corresponding authority in their jurisdiction of origin. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents ARGENTINA 51 Issuers of public offerings of securities domestically and abroad must submit to the CNV all information in Spanish required by the entities authorizing the public offering and listing abroad. Although there are no specific controls on residents' purchases of foreign securities abroad, their purchases may be limited as a result of restrictions on capital flows from Argentina to foreign jurisdictions. Effective March 27, 2003, the monthly limit on foreign exchange purchases for financial investment abroad without prior BCRA approval was increased to the equivalent of US$300,000 from US$200,000. On December 31, 2003, this limit was further increased to US$500,000. This limit may be raised based on payments of (1) export duties and (2) taxes on bank credits and debits. The regulations governing the sale or issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. No specific controls apply on the purchase of foreign securities abroad by residents; how- ever, effective December 31, 2003, such purchases are limited to the equivalent of US$500,000. This limit may be raised based on payments of (1) export duties and (2) taxes on bank credits and debits. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments The regulations governing the foreign exchange aspects of bonds or other debt securities apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing domestic issuers also apply. In particular, approval by the CNV is required for public offering. In addition, commercial paper must have a minimum maturity of seven days. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Approval by the CNV is required for public offerings. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Approval by the CNV is required for public offerings. Purchase abroad by residents Access to the foreign exchange market for forward and other derivatives contracts—except for currency, interest rate, and commodity swaps—is subject to BCRA approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Residents may extend credits to nonresidents within the l im it for the accumulation of exter- nal assets. Effective January 2, 2003, a monthly ceiling of US$150,000 or the equivalent applies on extension of financial credits (previously, US$100,000). This limit was raised to US$200,000 on March 13, 2003; to US$300,000 on March 27, 2003; and to US$500,000 on May 6, 2003. Financial credits by the private sector must be matched by sales on the MULC and must have a minimum maturity requirement for new external borrowing of 180 days (prior to June 30, 2003, 90 days). Residents may access the MULC for direct investments within the limits for accumulation of external assets. Investments exceeding this limit require BCRA approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 52 ARGENTINA Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Effective December 31, 2003, repatriation of inward direct investments by nonresidents is subject to a limit of US$5,000 or the equivalent a month on sales of foreign exchange to nonresidents. Investments excee'ding this limit require BCRA approval. No. Yes. Purchases of real estate in border areas by foreign investors require prior approval for the project from the Border Superintendency of the Ministry of Defense for national security reasons. Sale locally by nonresidents The regulations governing inward direct investments apply. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Credits granted by financial intermediaries must be used in the country and must finance investment, production, commercialization, and consumption of goods and services for internal consumption or export. There are limits on the maximum amount of securities a bank may hold from a particular issuer; however, purchases of securities against delivery of assets require prior BCRA approval. Foreign exchange bureaus are required to keep positions in external assets exceeding the equivalent of US$1.5 million in a dollar account at the BCRA. Transactions are prohibited by virtue of policies on general lending. Open foreign exchange position limits Effective June 26, 2003, the limit on banks' U.S. dollar exposure is 10% of a bank's net worth (previously, on January 23 ,2003, this limit was increased to 8% from 6%). There are regulations on the minimum capital held against market risks. The limits on the overall foreign exchange position to be held against market risks were adjusted as follows: (1) in the case of banks obtaining rediscount from the BCRA in amounts exceeding 50% of net liabilities, the limit was reduced by 50%; (2) in the case of banks that have made a capi- tal injection in foreign currencies after December 3, 2002, the limit was increased by 40%; (3) in cases involving checks bought from third parties in correspondence accounts or banks that operate in more than 15 agencies, the limit was increased by the equivalent of US$500,000; and (4) in cases involving currencies other than the U.S. dollar and the euro, the limit was increased by US$1 million (Communication A 3645). Effective February 13, 2003, the limit on the overall foreign exchange position (defined as foreign currency liquid assets held abroad plus long spot and forward positions in foreign currency securities of foreign issuers and domestic holdings of foreign currency banknotes and coins) is the equivalent of 10% of regulatory capital outstanding at end-November 2001 or US$1 mil- lion, whichever is larger. The same requirement applies to financial entities. Effective May 1, 2003, the absolute value of the overall net position in foreign exchange—as a monthly average of daily balances converted to pesos at the reference exchange rate—may not ex- ceed 30% of the net liabilities of the preceding month (Communication A 3889). When the net foreign exchange position is positive, the amount may not exceed that propor- tion of liquid own resources. Excesses may be subject to a charge of up to the equivalent of twice the nominal annual interest rate resulting from auctions of BCRA instruments in U.S. dollars or twice the 30-day LIBOR for operations in U.S. dollars as reported for the last working day of the relevant month, whichever is greater. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 53 Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad There is a 25% limit on investment for mutual fund portfolios, but this limit does not apply to MERCOSUR countries and Chile. For diversification, no more than 10% of pension funds may be invested in securities issued by a foreign sovereign, or in securities of foreign corporations issued abroad. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally When a mutual fund consists of securities, a minimum of 75% of the investment must be made in assets issued and traded in Argentina, including those issued by MERCOSUR countries and Chile. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws Due to the implicit risk associated with open foreign exchange positions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, additional capital is required to cover those risks. Deposits and loans in these currencies are computed to build the position. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 2. The monthly ceiling on residents' foreign exchange purchases for various pur- poses was raised to the equivalent of US$150,000 from US$100,000. Changes During 2003 January 27. An agreement was entered into whereby nonfmancial private sector entities with unrestructured external obligations may make transfers to a U.S. dollar-denominated trust fund for a period of 60 days in amounts no greater than 3% of the external debt in arrears, with the understanding that these funds will be used to cancel debt obligations once outstanding debts have been restructured. February 13. The limit on transfers to a U.S. dollar-denominated trust fund by nonfmanc ial private sector entities with unrestructured external obligations was raised to 5% of internal debt in arrears. March 13. The monthly ceiling on residents' foreign exchange purchases for various pur- poses was raised to the equivalent of US$200,000 from US$150,000. March 27. The monthly ceiling on residents' foreign exchange purchases for various pur- poses was raised to the equivalent of US$300,000 from US$200,000, or an amount equal to the tax payments on monthly financial transactions, whichever is greater. March 27. Payments of external arrears of up to the equivalent of US$5 million were allowed under certain conditions. May 6. The monthly ceiling on residents' foreign exchange purchases for various purposes was raised to the equivalent of US$500,000 from US$300,0000, or an amount equal to three times the tax payments on monthly financial transactions, whichever is greater. May 6. The limit of up to the equivalent of US$5 million on payments of external arrears was l if ted. May 6. The 5% limit on transfers to a U.S. dollar-denominated trust fund by nonfmancial private sector entities was lifted. June 30. Registration with the BCRA was required for capital transactions involving foreign exchange. Imports and import payments January 1. The minimum financing requirements on all imports were lifted. January 7. Advance payments were allowed for goods valued at less than the equivalent of US$20,000 (f.o.b.). Goods valued in excess of US$20,000 up to US$100,000 or the equiva- lent could be paid in advance for up to 30% of the import value; the remainder must be financed abroad for a minimum of 90 days after shipment. Goods valued in excess of US$ 100,000 up to US$200,000 or the equivalent could be paid in advance for up to 30% of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 54 ARGENTINA Exports and export proceeds the import value, and the remainder must be financed abroad for a minimum of 180 days after shipment. Goods valued in excess of US$200,000 or the equivalent could be paid in advance for up to 20% of the import value, and the remainder must be financed abroad for a minimum of 360 days after shipment (an additional 15% may be prepaid upon receipt of bills of lading). May 1. Advance payment requirements for imports were lifted. January 16. The threshold of proceeds the excess of which must be surrendered to the BCRA was raised to the equivalent of US$1 million from US$200,000. Advance payments and prefinancing proceeds were no longer required to be surrendered to the BCRA. March 25. The period during which repatriated export proceeds must be sold in the foreign exchange market or surrendered to the BCRA was reduced to 5 days from 10 days. March 27. The period during which repatriated export proceeds must be sold in the foreign exchange market or surrendered to the BCRA was changed to 30 days from 5 days. May 6. The period within which the surrender requirement must be effected was increased to 90 days from 30 days. May 6. Surrender of certain export proceeds to the BCRA was eliminated. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 1. Restrictions on payments for invisible transactions and current transfers were eliminated. Capital transactions Controls on capital transactions January 1. The requirement of prior authorization for the remittance of interest, profits, and dividends was eliminated. January 1. Restrictions on payments of reinsurance were eliminated. January 2. Repayment of the principal on nonfmancial private sector debts no longer re- quired BCRA prior approval, provided that the amount paid by the original financial debtor did not exceed a monthly equivalent of US$150,000. (This ceiling was raised to US$300,000 on February 13, 2003, and to US$1 million on March 13, 2003.) February 13. The prior approval requirement for servicing of non fmanc ial private sector debts was abolished, provided that servicing related to financial debts did not exceed the equivalent of US$1 million (this ceiling was raised to US$3 m i l l ion on March 13, 2003, and to US$5 million on March 27, 2003). May 6. BCRA prior approval was no longer required for payments for servicing nonfman- cial and financial private sector debts, except for those liabilities under refinancing schemes arranged with the BCRA. Controls on capital and money market instruments March 27. The monthly limit on foreign exchange purchases for financial investment abroad without prior BCRA approval was raised to the equivalent of US$300,000 from US$200,000. Controls on credit operations December 31. The monthly limit on foreign exchange purchases for financial investment abroad without prior BCRA approval was raised to the equivalent of US$500,000 from US$300,000. January 2. The monthly ceiling on purchases of foreign exchange by residents to nonresi- dents for extension of financial credits without BCRA approval was increased to the equivalent of US$150,000 from US$100,000. March 13. The monthly ceiling on purchases of foreign exchange by residents to nonresi- dents for extension of financial credits without BCRA approval was increased to the equivalent of US$200,000 from US$150,000. March 27. The monthly ceiling on purchases of foreign exchange by residents to nonresi- dents for extension of f inanc ial credits without BCRA approval was increased to the equivalent of US$300,000 from US$200,000. May 6. The monthly ceiling on purchases of foreign exchange by residents to nonresidents for extension of financial credits without BCRA approval was increased to the equivalent of US$500,000 from US$300,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 55 June 30. The minimum maturity requirement for new external borrowing from nonresidents to residents was increased to 180 days from 90 days. Controls on direct investment December 31. Repatriation of inward direct investments by nonresidents was subject to a monthly l im it of US$5,000 or the equivalent on sales of foreign exchange to nonresidents. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 23. The limits on banks' U.S. dollar exposure was raised to 8% from 6% of a bank's net worth. February 13. The limit on the overall foreign exchange position of f inanc ial institutions was set at 10% of regulatory capital outstanding at end-November 2001 or the equivalent of US$1 m i l l ion, whichever is larger. May 1. The overall net position in foreign exchange of f inanc ial institutions (as a monthly average of daily balances converted to pesos at the reference exchange rate) was not allowed to exceed 30% of the net liabilities of the preceding month. June 26. The l im it on banks' U.S. dollar exposure was raised to 10% from 8% of a bank 's net worth. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 29, 1997. Currency The currency of Armenia is the Armenian dram. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Armenia has adopted an independently floating exchange rate regime. The Central Bank of Armenia (CBA) pursues a policy of monetary targeting, for which it manages the reserve money as its operational target and intervenes in the foreign exchange market only to smooth the fluctuations of reserve money. Foreign exchange transactions take place pre- dominantly in the interbank market, in which the CBA also participates. Foreign exchange auctions in the stock exchange are not yet carried out, although the stock exchange infra- structure is in place. Purchases and sales of foreign currency may be implemented through foreign exchange entities licensed by the CBA, including banks, foreign exchange dealers, credit institutions, and foreign exchange bureaus; or, in the case of the government, public agencies, and commercial banks, through the CBA itself, which acts as the government's financial agent. Foreign exchange entities carry out foreign exchange transactions by setting their own buy- ing and selling rates without any restrictions. The exchange rate of the dram against the dollar is determined on the basis of exchange rates prevailing in the interbank market on the previous day. The official exchange rate is set as the average (midpoint) of the CBA's buying and selling rates. The official exchange rate is used for accounting purposes and in daily operations with the treasury. Foreign ex- change entities use the official exchange rate of the CBA for bookkeeping and revaluation purposes. Foreign exchange entities and other business entities determine exchange rates for their operations independently. No. No. Residents and nonresidents may negotiate freely forward exchange contracts for both commercial and financial transactions in all leading convertible currencies in the domestic exchange market and at major international foreign exchange markets. However, for the time being, the forward exchange market in Armenia is still undeveloped, although some banks sign forward contracts in small amounts. On October 23, 2003, the CBA began to conduct foreign exchange swaps as a short-term instrument. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents Residents are prohibited from using foreign exchange as a means of payment within Armenia. Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Armenia maintains agreements with Russia and Turkmenistan. 56 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control ARMENIA 57 Armenia is a signatory of the 1993 Treaty of Economic Union (with Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan), which provides for the eventual establishment of a customs union, a payments union, cooperation on investment, industrial development, and customs procedures. Armenia also joined the Agreement on the Establishment of a Payments Union of CIS member countries. Armenia is a member of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation, together with Albania, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece, Moldova, Romania, Russia, Turkey, and Ukraine. Bilateral free trade agreements have been signed with Georgia, the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, and Ukraine, though only the agreement with Russia is in operation. Armenia is an observer of the European Asian Economic Community. There is an arrangement with Turkmenistan for the importation of natural gas. In addition, b i la teral clearing agreements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU exist, but all have become largely inoperative. The CBA is the main body that formulates and administers exchange rate policy and that may issue foreign exchange regulations w i th in Armenia. The CBA also has the overall responsibility for currency control, in close collaboration with the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE). In general, the MOFE exercises authority over ministries and other administrative authorities, municipal authorities, budgetary organizations, and state funds. The CBA exercises authority over the activities of all other agents. Resident and nonresi- dent currency dealers, inc lud ing banks, may undertake foreign exchange transactions with- out restriction. There are no restrictions on current and capital movements unless otherwise specified by the CBA (in which case one month's notice is required). International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Off ic ial The major part of the arrears to the Russian Federation was cleared through debt-equity swaps on August 7, 2003, and the remainder were cleared on January 29, 2004. Arrears to Turkmenistan were settled on December 2, 2003, through transfers of goods. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Ind iv idua ls are authorized to transfer, deliver, and export currency and securities denomi- nated in foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $10,000 without any restriction. Exports of currency exceeding that amount are permitted through bank transfers. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 58 ARMENIA Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health are required and granted on a case-by-case basis to import medicinal preparations and pesticides. Imports of weapons, military equipment and parts, and explosives require special authorization from the government. There are two rates of customs duties: zero, which applies to most imports, and 10%, which applies to a variety of new materials and manufactured products. Products imported from countries in the CIS are exempt from import tariffs. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements At present, there is no repatriation requirement; however, the CBA has the power, as speci- fied by legislation, to impose such requirements on foreign exchange proceeds. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Export permits are required for medicines, wild animals, and plants. In addition, special government permission is required for the export of nuclear technology, nuclear waste, related nonnuclear products, and technology with direct military applications. Minimum threshold prices for the export of ferrous and nonferrous metals and the reexport of foreign- produced goods remain in force. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions The CBA reserves the right to impose capital controls if necessary. New controls will be announced one month in advance. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARMENIA 59 Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. No. No. No. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are prohibited by the constitution from acquiring land in Armenia. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits Effective July 1, 2003, a 6% (previously, 8%) reserve requirement applies to deposits in both foreign and domestic currency. The reserve requirement is remunerated at an annual interest rate of 3%. A limit of 25% applies to the gross foreign exchange position of lending institutions in convertible and nonconvertible currencies. Moreover, a limit of 5% applies to the net for- eign exchange position of commercial banks in nonconvertible currencies. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement October 23. The CBA began conducting short-term foreign exchange swap operations. Arrangements for payments and receipts August 7. The major part of the arrears to the Russian Federation was settled by debt-equity swaps. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions July 1. The reserve requirement applied to deposits in foreign and domestic currency was reduced to 6% from 8%. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 29. The remaining arrears to the Russian Federation were cleared. Changes During 2004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency The currency of Aruba is the Aruban florin. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax The florin is pegged to the dollar at Af. 1.79 per $1. The Centrale Bank van Aruba (CBA), the central bank, deals with local commercial banks within margins of 0.002795% on either side of parity. Effective June 2, 2003, a foreign exchange commission of 1.3% is levied on all payments to nonresidents, except when settled in Netherlands Antillean guilders. Certain institutions are exempted from this commission. Previously, payments abroad through checking ac- counts in local banks and payments to nonresidents effected through intercompany and foreign bank accounts were also exempt from this commission. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements n.a. No. Administration of control The CBA administers foreign exchange control. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency The exportation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. The exportation of foreign banknotes requires a license, except for traveling purposes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Yes. The opening of an account abroad must be reported to the CBA. Approval is not required, but holders of accounts abroad must apply to the CBA if they wish to be exempted from the requirement that they collect foreign claims as soon as they fall due and transfer and sell them to a local foreign exchange bank. 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA 61 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency These accounts are not allowed. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Balances in these accounts are fu l ly convertible. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of eggs may be subject to quotas, depending on the domestic supply situation. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Unless specifically exempted, export proceeds must be converted into local currency within eight working days, credited to a foreign currency account with a local foreign exchange bank, or deposited in a foreign bank account that has been registered with the CBA. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Yes. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments on all types of loans may be effected if a license has been obtained from the CBA to conclude the loan. As regards profits and dividends, documents should be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 62 ARUBA submitted to the CBA with respect to the amount involved. In the case of depreciation of direct investments, a special license is required if the amount of the transaction exceeds the authorized ceiling. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Unless specifically exempted, proceeds must be converted into local currency within eight working days, credited to a foreign currency account with a local foreign exchange bank or deposited in a foreign bank account that has been reported to the CBA. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Capital Transactions Transactions of less than Af. 300,000 a year for natural persons and Af. 750,000 a year for juridical persons (excluding commercial banks and institutional investors) may be carried out without CBA authorization. These ceilings are applicable to all capital transactions with nonresidents, including investments and loans; a CBA license is required for capital trans- actions exceeding these ceilings. There are controls on all these transactions, and a CBA license is required for transactions that exceed the indicated ceilings. There are controls on transactions exceeding the indicated ceilings. Controls on credit operations There are controls on transactions exceeding the indicated ceilings. Controls on direct investment There are controls on transactions exceeding the indicated ceilings. Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment The CBA may require divestment, repatriation, and surrender of proceeds to the CBA. Yes. Yes. Controls on real estate transactions There are controls on transactions exceeding the indicated ceilings. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Personal capital transactions must be effected through the banking system. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA 63 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The limits are 40% of the first Af. 10 million of outstanding liabilities; 50% of the second Af. 10 million; and 60% of the remaining liabilities. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exchange arrangement Changes During 2003 June 2. A foreign exchange commission of 1.3% began to be levied on all payments to nonresidents except for those by institutions that are exempted from this commission. Pre- viously, only payments abroad through checking accounts of local banks and payments to nonresidents effected through intercompany and foreign bank accounts were exempt from this commission. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1965. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Australia is the Australian dollar. It also circulates in several other countries, including Kiribati, Nauru, and Tuvalu. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the Australian dollar is market determined. Licensed foreign exchange dealers may deal among themselves, with their customers, and with overseas counterparties at mutually negotiated rates for both spot and forward transactions in any currency with regard to trade- and non-trade related transactions. However, the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) retains discretionary power to intervene in the foreign exchange market. There is no o f f ic ial exchange rate for the Australian dollar. The RBA publishes an indicative rate for the Australian dollar based on market observation at 9 a.m., noon, and 4 p.m. daily. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Active trading takes place in forward and futures contracts. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Residents generally require an Australian financial services license (AFSL) to purchase or sell foreign currency except when one of the following conditions is met: (1) the transaction is settled immediately, (2) the person is not a dealer in foreign currency, or (3) the person is dealing on his or her own account. Australia participates in PACER. The Australian Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC) is responsible for the licensing of all f inanc ial service providers, including foreign exchange dealers that deal in foreign currency transactions, unless the transactions are settled immediately or in the case of persons dealing on their own accounts. Financial restrictions apply to certain transactions, accounts, and assets relating to certain persons associated with the government of Zimbabwe, and the previous government of Serbia and Montenegro. Effective May 29, 2003, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 1483, assets of the former government of Iraq, its senior officials, and their immediate family members are frozen. In accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 1373, the Ministry of Foreign A f fa i rs ma in ta ins a list of suspected persons, entities, and assets connected with terrorism. Dealing with the funds or other assets of the listed individuals or groups, or making funds or assets available to them, is prohibited, and any funds in connection with listed individuals or groups are frozen. On June 3, 2003, financial sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. 64 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 65 Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Exportation or importation of notes and coins totaling more than the equivalent of $A 10,000 in domestic or foreign currency must be reported to the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Center. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically A person generally requires an AFSL to purchase or sell foreign currency except when one of the following conditions is met: (1) the transaction is settled immediately, (2) the person is not a dealer in foreign currency, or (3) the person is dealing on his or her own account. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Conversion may be effected through a licensed foreign exchange dealer or through a person who is not licensed, provided that one of the following conditions is met: (1) the transaction is settled immediately, (2) the person is not a dealer in foreign currency, or (3) the person is dealing on his or her own account. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted A person generally requires an AFSL to purchase or sell foreign currency except when one of the following conditions is met: (1) the transaction is settled immediately, (2) the person is not a dealer in foreign currency, or (3) the seller is dealing on his or her own account. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Conversion must be effected through a licensed foreign exchange dealer or through a person who is not licensed, provided that one of the following conditions is met: (1) the transaction is settled immediately, (2) the person is not a dealer in foreign currency, or (3) the person is dealing on his or her own account. Only those accounts affected by international security restrictions or UN sanctions are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no import-licensing requirements or quotas on imports other than the tariff quota that applies to certain cheeses and curd. Negative list For some products, imports are allowed only if written authorization is obtained from the relevant authorities or if certain regulations are observed. Among the goods subject to control are narcotic, psychotropic, and therapeutic substances; firearms and certain weapons; certain chemicals and primary commodities; some glazed ceramic ware; rough diamonds; and various dangerous goods. These controls are maintained mainly to meet health and safety requirements; to meet certain requirements for labeling, packaging, or technical specifications; and to satisfy certain obligations arising from Australia's ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 66 AUSTRALIA Import taxes and/or tariffs membership in international commodity agreements or to meet obligations under international trade embargoes. A general tariff of 5% applies to most manufactured goods, with the following exceptions. The tariff on passenger motor vehicles and certain automotive components is 15% and is scheduled to be reduced to 5% by 2010. Textiles, clothing, and footwear are subject to tariffs ranging from zero to 25%; tariffs for these goods are scheduled to be reduced to 10% on January 1, 2005. On November 27, 2003, the government announced the post-2005 assistance arrangement for the textile, clothing, and footwear industry. Under this arrangement, tariffs on these products will be reduced to levels between 5% and 10% by February 1, 2010, and to 5% by January 1, 2015. Tariffs for a large range of goods have been abolished. The ANZCERTA establishes free trade in goods between Australia and New Zealand. On July 28, 2003, the Australia-Singapore Free Trade Agreement came into effect, eliminating tariffs on all goods between the two countries. The SPARTECA provides the Forum Island countries with nonreciprocal, duty-free access to most markets in Australia and New Zealand. Trade between Papua New Guinea and Australia is covered by the Papua New Guinea-Australia Trade and Commercial Relations Agreement. Effective July 1, 2003, all goods produced in the least-developed countries and Timor-Leste may be imported free of duties and quotas. Preferences have been eliminated on imports of some goods, except for those from South Pacific island territories. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses With quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export prohibitions and restrictions in effect are designed to ensure quality control, administer trade embargoes, and meet obligations under international arrangements. These prohibitions are also set up to restrict the exportation of certain defense materials; regulate the exportation of goods that involve high technology and have dual civilian and military applications; maintain adequate measures of control over designated cultural property, resources, flora, and fauna; secure conservation objectives; and respond to specific market distortions abroad. Remaining controls on primary products apply mainly to food and agricultural products. Rough diamonds may be exported only to countries participating in the Kimberly Process Certification Scheme. Export controls apply to uranium and related nuclear materials (including uranium-bearing sands) to ensure compliance with Australia's nonproliferation policy obligations. Restrictions also apply to certain other nuclear and related materials. Licenses are required for exports of unprocessed wood, including wood chips. The Department of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry (DAFF) administers export control powers in relation to regulated dairy products under the provisions of the Dairy Produce Act. This system allows the management of exports to some markets where quantitative restrictions apply. Cattle, sheep or goat meat, and livestock may be exported only by persons or firms licensed by the DAFF. If other countries impose quantitative restrictions on imports of meat or livestock, the DAFF may, in conjunction with industry, introduce measures to control Australian exports to conform with those restrictions. Other Commonwealth statutory marketing authorities that have export control powers are Horticulture Australia Limited, the Australian Honey Board, the Australian Wheat Board, and the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation. The Australian Wheat Board's powers make it the sole exporter of Australian wheat. Australia has a complete ban on the export of merino ewes, their genetic material, ova, and embryos to any country other than New Zealand. However, merino breeding rams purchased at designated export auctions and semen from rams included in the National Register of Semen Export Donors (administered by the Australian Association of Stud ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 67 Merino Breeders) may be exported. Sales are subject to DAFF approval and an annual quota of 800 rams a year, with a provision for up to 100 rams to be placed on a semen donor register. No ram nominated for collection of semen for export may be physically exported. The export restrictions do not apply to merino rams intended for slaughter; however, the export of these rams is subject to controls to ensure they do not enter breeding stocks, and a legal undertaking by the exporter to ensure that this merino ram exported will be slaughtered. There is no restriction on the export of merino rams or reproductive material to New Zealand. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions The purchase of shares and other securities of a participatory nature, which may be affected by laws and policies on inward direct investment, may require notification to the Australian authorities. Foreign governments, their agencies, and international organizations are not permitted to issue bearer bonds and, when borrowing in the Australian capital market, must advise the Australian authorities of the details of each borrowing after its completion. Subject to certain disclosure requirements, overseas banks may issue securities in the wholesale capital market in amounts of $A 500,000 or more. An AFSL issued by the ASIC is required to provide financial products advice; to deal in financial products (including securities, derivatives, and foreign exchange contracts that are not derivatives or a contract to exchange one currency for another that is to be settled immediately); or to create a market for a financial product. The AFSL entails specific codes of conduct and obligations, and subjects the licensee to certain disclosure requirements in relation to retail clients. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments An AFSL is required to purchase or sell foreign currency except when one of the following conditions is met: (1) the transaction is settled immediately, (2) the person is not a dealer in foreign currency, or (3) the person is dealing on his or her own account. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 68 AUSTRALIA Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Prior authorization is required for (1) acquisitions by foreign investors of a substantial interest in an Australian business with total assets of $A 50 million or more or when the proposal values the business at or over that amount (a substantial interest occurs when a single foreigner and any associates have 15% or more ownership of a business or several foreigners have 40%); (2) all investments subject to special restrictions (i.e., in the banking, civil aviation, airports, shipping, media, telecommunications, and real estate sectors), including those below the $A 50 million threshold; (3) direct investments by foreign governments or their agencies, irrespective of size; and (4) proposals to establish new business when the total amount of the investment is $A 10 million or more. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents All acquisitions of residential real estate, including vacant land, must be documented, unless exempt by regulation. Acquisitions of nonresidential commercial real estate for development are normally approved, as are acquisitions of developed nonresidential commercial real estate. Acquisition of developed nonresidential commercial real estate is exempt if the total value of the property is less than $A 50 million and if the property is not subject to heritage listing. If the property is subject to heritage listing, the total value of the property may not exceed $A 5 m i l l ion. Approval is also usually granted for acquisitions of vacant land for development, subject to certain conditions, and for acquisitions of dwellings (including condominiums) direct from a developer, either "off the plan," while under construction, or completed but never occupied, provided that no more than 50% of the total number of dwellings are sold to foreign investors. Foreign acquisitions of established residential real estate are normally approved only in cases involving temporary residents who acquire the property as their principal place of residence for a period in excess of 12 months, subject to resale of the property upon departure. Foreign persons who are entitled to reside permanently in Australia or those who purchase as joint tenants with an Australian spouse are not required to seek approval to acquire any form of residential real estate. Foreign acquisition of residential real estate (including condominiums) within a designated integrated tourist resort is exempt from authorization. Transfers may be subject to approval of the authorities in cases where the gift involves a foreign person obtaining an interest in Australian urban land. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Authorized deposit-taking institutions are subject to prudential requirements, e.g., liquidity management and credit concentration. Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Prior approval from the Treasurer is required for any person or group—domestic or foreign—to acquire a 15% or larger share in a financial sector company, including authorized deposit-taking institutions and any nonoperating holding company for these institutions in Australia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 69 Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Foreign-owned life insurance companies can operate only in the form of locally incorporated subsidiaries. Other controls imposed by securities laws The rules of the Australian Stock Exchange require that, to be a participating organization of the exchange, a majority of the directors must be Australian residents. This rule does not prohibit foreigners from owning participating organizations. Authorized deposit-taking institutions, insurance companies, and pension funds are supervised by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts May 29. In accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 1483, assets of the former government of Iraq, its senior officials, and their immediate family members were frozen. June 3. Financial sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. Imports and import payments July 1. All goods produced in least-developed countries and Timor-Leste were allowed to be imported free of duties and quotas. July 28. The Australia-Singapore Free Trade Agreement came into effect. November 27. Tariffs on textiles, clothing, and footwear products were scheduled to be reduced to levels between 5% and 10% by January 1, 2010, and to 5% by January 1, 2015. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 1, 1962. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Austria is the euro. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Austria participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. The ECB may intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with all countries may be made either in foreign currencies or through free euro accounts. There are no bilateral payments agreements; however, several bilateral agreements exist for the promotion and protection of investments, which include provisions on transfers be- tween the signatories. Administration of control Exchange transactions are effected through Austrian banks authorized by the Financial Market Authority. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, cer- tain restrictions are maintained on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions with respect to Myanmar, certain individuals associated with the previ- ous government of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe. In accordance with EU Regulation 147/2003, effective January 27, 2003, f inanc ing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia are prohibited. Restrictions also apply on transfers with respect to the Taliban and individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 70 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures AUSTRIA 71 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Accounts of citizens of certain countries affected by EU regulations and accounts that are blocked by virtue of UN sanctions are treated differently. In the former case, regulations are addressed directly to the credit institutions of the member states, which are then respon- sible for taking the requisite action. This procedure applies to accounts belonging to certain citizens of Iraq, Myanmar, and Zimbabwe; individuals linked to the former Federal Repub- lic of Yugoslavia; the Taliban; and individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. In the latter case, the Austrian National Bank issues official announcements (regulations) to make provisions of the UN sanctions effective under Austrian law. These official an- nouncements are addressed to the Austrian credit institutions. This procedure applies to accounts belonging to terrorists with a residence in the EU. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Export and import licenses must be issued by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs for industrial products and by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for agricultural products. As a member of the EU, Austria applies all import regulations based on the com- mon commercial policy, i.e., import restrictions for industrial products in the textile and clothing sectors and statistical surveillance for products falling under the scope of the ECSC Treaty. There are also regulations based on current EU law with regard to China for imports of some consumer products. Positive list Licenses with quotas Yes. Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Austria applies the Common Import Regime of the EU. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes AUSTRIA Licenses for exports must be obtained from the relevant ministry, or at the time of clear- ance, from the customs authorities. For most exports, licenses are not required. Export li- censes are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant EU trade agreements and the fu l f i l lment of quotas established in accordance with such agreements, and the needs of the Austrian economy. Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment In some cases, there are reporting requirements to the Austrian National Bank. No. No. In the auditing and legal professions, the transport sector, and the electric power generation sector, certain restrictions apply for investments by nonresidents and Austrian residents who are not nationals of one of the countries of the EEA. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The acquisition of real estate is subject to approval by local authorities. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Reserve requirements apply only to deposits held in euros. Liquid asset requirements Liquid asset requirements apply only to deposits held in euros. Open foreign exchange position limits The net amount of an open foreign exchange position must not exceed 30% of own funds at the end of any business day; the total sum of all open positions must not exceed 50% of own funds. The euro is not considered a foreign currency. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 73 On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. Financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia were prohibited. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Azerbaijan is the Azerbaijan manat. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control The official exchange rate of the manat is determined as the weighted average of the rates quoted in telephone, auction, customer, and electronic interbank transactions. Most exchange transactions are effected as customer transactions. No. No. Forward transactions are effected through the Baku Interbank Currency Exchange. Currently, these transactions involve only dollars, euros, and Russian rubles. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts In accordance with current legislation, settlements among residents within the country may be effected in foreign currencies only with approval from the Azerbaijan National Bank (ANB). Agreements with CIS countries are inoperative. Azerbaijan is a member of the Payment Union of the CIS countries, which is now inoperative. State-owned enterprises and enterprises in which the state has a major share in the author- ized capital must register these agreements with the Ministry of Economic Development (MED). The ANB regulates foreign exchange transactions, conducts foreign currency operations, and administers off ic ial gold and convertible currency reserve holdings. The ANB also has overall responsibility for issuing licenses to deal in foreign exchange and to open foreign exchange accounts abroad; for regulating foreign exchange operations, including imple- menting and monitoring compliance with the law; and for establishing prudential rules governing foreign exchange operations. The MED regulates foreign trade, while the or- ganization and operation of customs are regulated under the Law on the Customs Services. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls are administered by the Cabinet of Ministers jo in t ly with the ANB. Controls on external trade A license from the MED is required to conduct international trade in gold. 74 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN 75 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The exportation and importation of foreign banknotes are regulated by the ANB and the customs agencies. Banks may import and export foreign banknotes only with ANB approval. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Manat banknotes may be taken out of the country only on the condition that they be re- turned; the maximum amount that may be exported is manat 50,000. Residents and nonresidents may export up to the equivalent of $10,000 and $1,000, respec- tively, without documentation or up to $50,000 in currency that they previously brought into the country. Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Resident enterprises may open and use foreign exchange bank accounts in banks abroad, subject to ANB authorization. Enterprises are obligated to repatriate the foreign exchange held in accounts abroad (except the amount used to pay for imports). There is no regulation for individuals who open and use foreign exchange bank accounts in banks abroad. Yes. n.r. Natural and juridical persons may purchase foreign exchange through authorized banks, and authorized banks may also purchase foreign exchange in these markets on their own account, in accordance with the regulations of the ANB. These regulations do not set any limit. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Foreign exchange in these accounts may be transferred abroad or sold to the banks for manat. Prior to opening an account, a nonresident legal entity must provide proof from the Ministry of Justice of its status. Nonresident enterprises may also open and operate accounts in manat and use them for domestic transactions only if they have a local branch or office. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresidents may acquire foreign currency through authorized banks without restrictions. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Import payments made more than 180 days prior to the delivery of goods require ANB approval. Prepayments by bank transfers for import contracts of goods and services are limited to the equivalent of $25,000. This amount may be exceeded, subject to ANB approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 76 AZERBAIJAN Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Prepayments by bank transfers in excess of $25,000 or the equivalent require either an LC or ANB approval. Imports of certain listed goods (such as narcotics, explosives, weapons, and nuclear sub- stances and waste) require special approval. Tariff rates of zero, 0.5%, 3%, 10%, and 15% apply. Some capital and input goods are subject to a 5% tariff. Imports of underinvoiced goods are subject to specific tariffs. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Residents are required to repatriate all proceeds from exports within 180 days and transfer them to a licensed bank in Azerbaijan within 10 days of receipt. Expenses, commissions, and taxes paid abroad relating to economic activities may be deducted from the proceeds prior to their being transferred to a licensed bank. Financing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements All export operations must be secured by a 100% prepayment, an irrevocable LC, or a bank guarantee. Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. Exports of scrap metal are prohibited. Effective January 1, 2003, nongovernmental exports of oil and oil products are subject to a tax of 25% of the difference between their c.i.f. price and the price of similar exports by the State Oil Company of Azerbaijan Republic (SOCAR). Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds received by residents must be repatriated within six months and transferred to a licensed bank within 10 days of repatriation. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents The transfer of resources requires ANB approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AZERBAIJAN 77 Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These instruments are not currently available, and legislation concerning derivatives has not been formulated. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits provided to nonresidents for longer than 180 days and credits to finance projects abroad require ANB approval. Financial credits The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Direct investment abroad requires ANB approval. Inward direct investment For insurance companies, the m in imum authorized capital is manat 5 b i l l ion and foreign ownership may not exceed 40%. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require ANB approval. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Loans to nonresidents with maturities exceeding 180 days require ANB approval. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents These transactions are permitted, subject to documentary requirements. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants These transactions are subject to documentary requirements and must be based on a court ruling. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions require ANB approval. Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Gamb l ing is p roh ib i ted in Azerbaijan. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Credits provided to nonresidents for longer than 180 days and credits to f inance projects abroad require ANB approval. Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements There is a 10% reserve requirement on all deposit accounts, regardless of the currency involved. Liquid assets must be equal to at least 30% of current obligations with maturities in the current mon th, regardless of the currency involved. There is a 10% reserve requirement on all deposit accounts, regardless of the currency involved. Liquid assets must be equal to at least 30% of current obligations with maturities in the current month, regardless of the currency involved. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 78 AZERBAIJAN Investment regulations Abroad by banks These transactions are permitted with ANB approval. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit on convertible currencies is 10% for each foreign currency, up to a cumulative limit of 20%. On resident assets and liabilities The limit on nonconvertible currencies is 7% for each currency, up to a cumulative limit of 15%. On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. No. Other controls imposed by securities laws The domestic circulation of foreign securities is subject to controls and monitoring. Changes During 2003 Exports and export proceeds January 1. Nongovernmental exports of crude oil and oil products became subject to a tax of 25% of the difference between their c.i.f. price and the official price of SOCAR exports of similar products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 5, 1973. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Bahamas is the Bahamian dollar. Commemorative gold coins in denominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, BS200, B$250, B$ 1,000, and B$2,500 and silver coins denominated B$10 and B$25 are legal tender but do not circulate. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. In addition to the official exchange market, there is a market in which investment currency may be negotiated between residents through the Central Bank of The Bahamas (CBB); the current premium bid and offer rates are 20% and 25%, respectively. The use of investment currency is prescribed for the purchase of foreign currency securities from nonresidents and direct investments outside The Bahamas. In certain circumstances, the CBB may also permit residents to retain and use foreign currency from other sources to make such outward investments. Certain external investments (including investment in foreign stocks by company-based retirement funds) may be effected at the official exchange rate without paying the investment currency premium. The Bahamian dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at par. Buying and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted, with the buying rate based on the rate in the New York market; the selling rate is 0.5% above the buying rate. The CBB deals only with commercial banks. For transactions with the public, commercial banks are authorized to charge a commission of 0.50% buying and 0.75% selling per US$1, and 0.50% buying or selling per £1. A stamp tax of 1.5% is applied to all outward remittances. No. Commercial banks may provide forward cover for residents who are due to receive or must pay foreign currency under a contractual commitment. Commercial banks may not, how- ever, sell foreign currency spot to be held on account to cover future requirements without the CBB's permission. Authorized dealers may deal forward in foreign currency with non- residents without prior approval from the CBB. Commercial banks may execute forward deals among themselves at market rates but they must ensure when carrying out all forward cover arrangements that their open spot or forward position does not exceed the equivalent of B$500,000 long or short. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The exchange control system of The Bahamas makes no distinction between foreign territories. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Bahamian dollars through an external account. Foreign currency is defined as all currencies other than the Bahamian dollar. The Bahamas is a member of the CARICOM, but it does not participate in the common market. 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 80 THE BAHAMAS Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Exchange control is administered .by the CBB, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments, including payments for imports up to the equivalent of B$500,000. The approval authority for cash gifts up to the equivalent of B$ 10,000 a year is delegated to authorized banks. No. No. Residents, other than authorized dealers, are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. However, residents who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the ap- proval of the CBB, meet their current industrial requirements. There is no restriction on residents' acquisition or retention of gold coins. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coins, and no import duty is imposed on these items. Commercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a li- cense and are duty-free, although a 10% stamp tax is required. A 1.5% stamp tax payable to customs is also required on commercial shipments of gold jewelry from any source. A traveler may export banknotes up to a total of B$200. Bahamian travelers need CBB approval to export foreign banknotes. Importation is subject to CBB approval. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Permission from the CBB is required to open and hold these accounts. Permission is normally granted to persons earning substantial amounts of foreign exchange who make regular payments abroad. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited with payments in a foreign currency from residents of The Bahamas with the specific permission of the CBB, payments in foreign currency from nonresidents, and foreign currency receipts arising from dealings between nonresidents and authorized dealers. These accounts may be interest bearing. Accounts may be debited for payments to residents or nonresidents, for payments to other foreign currency accounts, and for payment of foreign currency costs involved in dealings between nonresidents and authorized dealers. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts With the prior approval of the CBB, authorized banks may also open external accounts in Bahamian dollars for nonresident companies that have local expenses in The Bahamas and for nonresident investors. Authorized banks may freely open external accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 81 denominated in Bahamian dollars for winter residents and for persons with residency permits who are not gainfully employed in The Bahamas. Foreign nationals who have been granted temporary resident status are treated in some respects as nonresidents but are not permitted to hold external accounts in Bahamian dollars. External accounts in Bahamian dollars are normally funded entirely from foreign currency originating outside The Bahamas, but income on registered investments may also be credited to these accounts with the approval of the CBB. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Approval required Nonresidents may ma in ta in external Bahamian dollar accounts with authorized dealers with CBB permission. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Prior approval from the CBB is required to make payments for non-oil imports exceeding the equivalent of B$500,000, irrespective of origin, except in the Family Islands, where this authority is delegated to clearing bank branches. This approval is normally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. The importation of certain commodities is prohibited or controlled for social, humanitarian, or health reasons. For all imports of agricultural products, a permit must be obtained from the Ministry of Agriculture. All other goods may be imported without a license. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax of 7%. Import duties vary from zero to 210%. The tariff rate on most goods is 35% and the aver- age tariff rate is 31%. Stamp duties on imports vary from 2% to 7%. There is no import duty on certain tourist-related goods, but these goods are subject to stamp duties ranging from 8% to 20%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six months of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the CBB. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export licenses are not required, except for crawfish, conch, and arms and ammunition. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no restrictions on current payments. However, there are limits on the approval authority delegated to commercial banks by the CBB. Authorized dealers may make ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 THE BAHAMAS Trade-related payments Prior approval payments to nonresidents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles, such as commissions, royalties, education, and non-life insurance premiums, within specified limits. CBB approval is required for payments in excess of those limits or for categories of payments not delegated. A CBB-issued "Personal Allowance" card must be presented to authorized dealers to record foreign currency purchases. CBB approval is required for transactions over B$25,000 for unloading and storage costs and commissions. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits For all investments with approved status, permission is given upon application for the transfer. Yes. Authorized dealers may provide up to B$ 10,000 or its equivalent a person a year for tour- ism and other personal travel. The limit on travel for educational purposes is B$ 10,000 a person a year. For business or professional travel, the limit is B$50,000 or its equivalent a person a year. The allowance for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which is normally paid in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in The Bahamas. Foreign ex- change obtained for travel may not be retained abroad or used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused balance must be surrendered within one week of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one week of returning to The Bahamas. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Authorized dealers may provide up to B$25,000 or its equivalent for education payments to institutions (B$2,500 a transaction if paid to the student), family maintenance, and alimony payments. CBB approval is required for amounts exceeding this limit. There is no limit for medical expenses. Yes. Yes. The limit is 50% of wages and salaries. If commitments outside The Bahamas are more than 50% of wages and salaries, additional amounts may be remitted. Temporary residents may also repatriate all of their accumulated savings resulting from their employment in The Bahamas. Approval is required for residents to hold an international credit card with a limit exceeding the equivalent of B$25,000. Cards may not be used to pay for l ife insurance premiums and capital items. Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card transactions are subject to bona fide tests. Other payments Prior approval Prior approval from the CBB is required for payments exceeding the equivalent of B$25,000 for professional services charges, subscriptions, membership fees, royalties, registration of patents, serial rights, and advertising. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 83 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Residents are obliged to collect all proceeds without delay. Surrender requirements All foreign currency proceeds must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer upon receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval, and outflows of resident- owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers by nonresidents, which are encouraged, are required to be processed through the exchange control approval procedure, although the subsequent use of the funds in The Bahamas may require authorization. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the CBB is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a nonresident. The extent of such approvals generally reflects the government's economic and investment policy guidelines. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents employed by offshore and foreign-based institutions in The Bahamas may invest in employee stock option/share purchase plans through the off ic ial exchange market up to the equivalent of B$ 10,000 a person a year, on a noncumulative basis for contributory plans. Otherwise, residents are not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities with official exchange, export proceeds, or other current earnings; payment must be made with investment currency. All purchases, sales, and swaps of foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents require permission from the CBB and are normally effected through authorized agents, who are free to act on behalf of nonresidents in relation to such transactions without any further approval from the CBB, at a 25% premium. All foreign securities purchased by residents of The Bahamas must be held by, or to the order of, an authorized agent. Sale proceeds from resident-held foreign currency securities that were registered at the CBB prior to December 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the investment currency market. Unregistered securities may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian dollar-denominated securities must fund the acquisition of such securities from foreign currency sources. Interest, dividends, and capital payments on these securities may not be remitted outside The Bahamas, unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 84 THE BAHAMAS Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment A resident company wholly owned by nonresidents is not allowed to raise fixed capital in Bahamian dollars, although approval may be granted to obtain working capital in local currency. If the company is partly owned by residents, the amount of local currency bor- rowing for fixed capital purposes is determined in relation to residents' interest in the eq- uity of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in The Bahamas must have permis- sion to extend loans in domestic currency to any corporate body (other than a bank) that is also resident in The Bahamas but is controlled directly or indirectly by nonresidents. How- ever, companies set up by nonresidents primarily to import and distribute products manu- factured outside The Bahamas are not allowed to borrow Bahamian dollars from residents for either fixed or working capital; instead, they must provide all their financing in foreign currency. Foreign currency loans are normally permitted on application. Residents other than authorized banks must obtain permission to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control direction of their foreign currency loans to residents. Residents must also obtain permission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans by conversion of Bahamian dollars. When permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, it is conditional upon the currency being offered for sale without delay to an authorized dealer, unless the funds are required to meet specifically authorized payments to nonresidents. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$l million a person or entity, with an overall limit of B$5 million a transaction, which may be met once every three years. This limit is in respect to investments from which the additional benefits that are expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the investment will at least be equal to the total amount of investment and will continue thereafter. Investments abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms, subject to indi- vidual approval from the CBB; by foreign currency purchased in the investment currency market; or by the retained profits of foreign subsidiary companies. Permission is not given for investments that are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. Inward direct investment CBB approval is required. Controls on liquidation of direct investment In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the off ic ial foreign exchange market. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents require the specific approval of the CBB to buy property outside The Bahamas; such purchases, if for personal use, may be made only with investment currency, and ap- proval is limited to one property a family. Incidental expenses connected with the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met with investment currency. Expenditures necessary for the maintenance of the property or arising directly from its ownership may, with permission, be met with foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the off i- cial foreign exchange market. Foreigners intending to purchase land for commercial purposes or property larger than five acres in size must obtain a permit from the Investments Board. If such an application is approved, payment for the purchase may be made either in Bahamian dollars from an external source or in foreign currency. Nonresidents wishing to purchase property for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 85 Sale locally by nonresidents Approval from the CBB is required. residential purposes may do so without prior approval but are required to obtain a Certificate of Registration from the Investments Board on completion of the transaction. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The maximum amount an emigrant may transfer abroad is the equivalent of B$ 125,000 a fam i ly a year. Excess amounts may be approved by the CBB on an individual basis. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Residents are not allowed to remit funds earned from gaming. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Prior exchange control approval is required if local real estate is offered as a security. Lending locally in foreign exchange Exchange control approval is required to make loans to residents. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is B$500,000 or its equivalent for both long and short positions. Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Foreign investments in domestic insurance companies and pension funds are not permitted. In the securities market, a Mutual Funds Act and a regulation that provides for licensing of mutual funds administrators and the registration of mutual funds are enforced. The Securi- ties Industry Act authorizes the Securities Commission to regulate the stock exchange and stock exchange operations. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KINGDOM OF BAHRAIN (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 20, 1973. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Kingdom of Bahrain is the Bahrain dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements The dinar is pegged to the dollar at the rate of BD 1 per $2.659. The Bahrain Monetary Agency (BMA) provides daily recommended rates to banks for transactions involving amounts up to BD 1,000 in dollars. The BMA does not deal with the public. In their deal- ings with the public, commercial banks are required to use the BMA's rates for dollars. The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the BMA's dollar rates and the New York market rates against the dollar. No. No. The BMA monitors the forward exchange transactions of commercial banks through the open position of banks' monthly returns. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Otherwise, no requirements are imposed on ex- change payments or receipts. Regional arrangements Effective January 1, 2003, the GCC Customs Union came into effect. Administration of control There is no exchange control legislation. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Measures have been imposed to combat the financing of terrorists and terrorism such as the freezing of assets of certain individuals and organizations pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 1333 and 1373; and the BMA has required all licensed banks to ensure diligence in examining their financial dealings with a list of persons and organizations. Yes. No. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 5% customs duty, but gold ingots are exempt. Bro- kers doing business in gold and other products must obtain BMA approval before they can register with the Ministry of Commerce. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The Directorate General of Customs maintains a registry containing information on currencies imported and their importers. 86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KINGDOM OF BAHRAIN 87 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs If such documents are not available, imported goods may be released with a written promise to submit the documents at a later date. Licenses are required for imports of arms, ammunition, and alcoholic beverages. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or security. Imports of cultured pearls are prohibited. Mandatory government procurements give preference to goods produced in the Kingdom of Bahrain and member countries of the GCC, provided that the quality and prices of these goods are within specified margins of the prices of imported substitutes (10% for goods produced in Bahrain and 5% for goods produced in member countries of the GCC). Customs duty rates are generally zero or 5%. Special ad valorem rates of 100% apply on tobacco products and 125% on alcoholic beverages, although specific duties based on quantity or weight may result in higher duties. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 88 Export licenses Export taxes KINGDOM OF BAHRAIN All exports to Israel are prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds Proceeds from invisibles from Israel are prohibited. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, but transactions in money market instruments are controlled in accordance with the provisions of Amiri Decree No. 4/2000 and Ministerial Order No. 1/2004 regard- ing the prevention and prohibition of money laundering. Payments may not be made to or received from Israel. Subject to Amiri Decree No. 10/1999, GCC nationals are allowed to own up to 100% and non-GCC nationals are allowed to own up to 49% of the listed shares of a Bahraini joint- stock company. The percentage of ownership by non-GCC nationals may be increased, subject to approval from the Minister of Commerce and Industry. However, non-GCC na- tionals may purchase, sell, or own up to 100% of the shares of the following seven compa- nies: the Arab Banking Corporation, the Bahrain International Bank, Investcorp Bank, the Bahrain Middle East Bank, Taib Bank, Shamil Islamic Bank, and the Arab Insurance Group. Purchases, sales, and ownership of shares are subject to the requirements of anti- money laundering regulations. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Although residency in Bahrain is not required, local sales and issues by nonresidents are subject to BMA regulations, the Bahraini Commercial Companies Law, the Bahraini Stock Exchange (BSE) Law, and the law on prevention and prohibition of money laundering. Purchase abroad by residents There are no restrictions on these transactions, provided that the regulations of the foreign jurisdiction concerned are satisfied. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing purchases abroad by residents apply. Bonds or other debt securities The issuance of bonds and other debt securities is subject to the BMA Law and the Com- mercial Companies Law. Sales of listed bonds and other debt securities are subject to the BSE Law. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing the sale or issue locally of shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature by residents apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing the purchase abroad of shares or other securities of a participat- ing nature by residents apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KINGDOM OF BAHRAIN 89 Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Direct investments are regulated in accordance with the Commercial Companies Law, BMA regulations, the BSE Law (subject to the field of investment), and the Anti-Money Laundering Law. GCC nationals are allowed to own up to 100% of the shares of domestic enterprises, and non-GCC nationals are allowed to own-up to 100% of offshore, closed joint-stock, and limited l iab i l i ty companies; and 49% in other companies, with the exception of a few strategic sectors. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents In accordance with Legislative Decree No. 40/1999, there are no restrictions on ownership of real estate by GCC na t iona ls (either natural or ju r id ical persons). The ownership of real estate by nonresidents is regulated by Legislative Decree No. 2/2001. Nonresidents (both natural and jur id ical persons) are allowed to own buildings and property only in locations specified in the Council of Ministers Regulation No. 5/2001, which in- clude most of the prestigious and tourist areas. In accordance with Legislative Decree No. 2/2001, commercial, tourism, and industrial companies, as well as banking and financial institutions that are licensed to operate in Bahrain, may own real estate without restriction. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remittance of profits without exchange control restrictions. Licensed offshore banking units may engage freely in transactions with nonresidents, although transactions with residents are not nor- ma l ly permitted. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are allowed to set their own ind iv idual limits. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws Effective January 1, 2004, disclosure standards require listed companies to no t i fy the BMA of developments or changes in their paid-up capital, including (1) when one holder's own- ership of the issued and paid-up capital reaches 5% or more; (2) when ownership reaches 10% or more (this requires prior BMA approval); and (3) when ownership reaches 10% or more and the holder wishes to purchase more shares (this also requires prior approval and is subject to a l im it of 20%). Arrangemen ts for payments and receipts January 1. The GCC Customs Union came into operation. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 90 KINGDOM OF BAHRAIN Changes During 2004 Capital transactions Other controls imposed by securities laws January L Disclosure standards require listed companies to no t ify the BMA of new devel- opments or changes in their paid-up capital, including when one holder's ownership capital reaches or exceeds 5% or 10% and when an owner of 10% or more of capital wishes to purchase more shares. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position as of March 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 11, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh taka. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market On May 31, 2003, the Bangladesh Bank (BB) ceased announcing a buying-selling rate band for the taka against the dollar for its transactions with authorized dealer (AD) banks, effec- tively allowing the taka to float; the BB continues to intervene in the market, mainly on the buying side, to limit undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. Previously, the BB had an- nounced a narrow rate band and trends of the real effective exchange rate of the taka were tracked to monitor the competitiveness of the exchange rate. As a result of this change, the exchange rate regime of Bangladesh has been reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category conventional pegged arrangement. No. No. ADs are free to buy and sell foreign-currency forwards in accordance with international practices but must cover forward sales with forward purchases. ADs are permitted to retain working balances with foreign correspondent banks. Effective February 25, 2004, currency swaps and forward exchange transactions are permitted only when effected against underlying approved commercial transactions. Official cover of forward operations The BB does not deal in the forward market, nor does it regulate transactions beyond the normal requirements of prudential supervision. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements normally take place in convertible currencies and, in some cases, through non- resident taka accounts. Settlements with ACU member countries must be effected through the ACU and in units denominated in AMUs (equivalent in value to the dollar). Payments for imports may be made to any country (with the exception of countries from which im- ports are prohibited). They may be made (1) in taka for credit in Bangladesh to a nonresi- dent bank account of the country concerned; (2) in the currency of the country concerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely con- vertible foreign exchange or in taka from a nonresident taka account. Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 BANGLADESH Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Yes. Bilateral payments arrangements Yes. Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) There is an operative bilateral payments arrangement with Myanmar. Bangladesh is a member of the ACU. Yes. Exchange control is administered by the BB in accordance with general policy formulated in consultation with the MOF. Licenses are issued to banks as ADs in foreign exchange. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Commerce is responsible for registering exporters and importers and for issuing Import Policy Orders (IPOs). Regis- tered importers may make their imports under the terms of the IPO against LCs. LC au- thorization forms (LCAFs) are issued by ADs and do not require a separate import license. Banks and other f inanc ial institutions have been instructed to freeze all capital transfers and f inanc ial assets of individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism, pursuant to the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions On the basis of UN Security Council resolutions, all settlements with the Taliban and the former government of Iraq are prohibited. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency There are no restrictions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver or- naments (including coins) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in all other forms except by licensed manufacturers or dentists. The importation and exportation of gold and silver require special permission. However, adult female travelers are free to bring in or take out any amount of gold jewelry without prior approval from the BB. Exports of gold jewelry and imports of gold and silver for the export or manufacture of jewelry are allowed under the Jewelry Export Scheme. A resident or nonresident may take out up to Tk 500 in domestic currency. Effective June 1, 2003, residents may take out foreign currency and traveler's checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they are granted, and also up to the equivalent of $3,000 (previously, $5,000) brought in without declaration when returning from a previous visit abroad, and nonresidents may take out the foreign currency and traveler's checks they de- clared on entry or up to the equivalent of $3,000 (previously, $5,000) brought in without declaration. Foreign tourists may reconvert unspent taka at ADs upon production of docu- mentary evidence that the taka were acquired through a conversion of foreign exchange that had been brought into the country. The importation of Bangladesh currency exceeding Tk 500 is prohibited. Effective June 1, 2003, foreign currency traveler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in freely up to the equivalent of $3,000 (previously, $5,000), but larger amounts should be declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh. Effective March 23, 2004, only amounts in excess of the equivalent of $5,000 are required to be declared to customs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH Resident Accounts 93 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Residents returning from abroad may bring in any amount of foreign currency and may maintain a resident foreign currency deposit account with the foreign exchange brought in. However, proceeds of exports of goods and services from Bangladesh or commissions aris- ing from business deals in Bangladesh may not be credited to such accounts. Balances in these accounts are freely transferable abroad and may be used for travel in the usual man- ner. These accounts may be opened in dollars, euros, pounds sterling, and Japanese yen. Local and joint-venture contracting firms executing projects financed by a foreign donor or international agency may open foreign currency accounts. Returning nonresident Bangla- deshis who did not open or maintain a foreign currency deposit account while abroad may open a resident foreign currency deposit account with foreign exchange brought in from abroad within six months of the date of their return to take up permanent residence in Bangladesh. Foreign currency accounts may also be opened in the names of diplomatic missions in Bangladesh, their expatriates, the UN and its agencies, and diplomatic bonded warehouses (duty-free shops). Foreign currency accounts may be opened in the name of resident Bangladesh nationals working for foreign or international organizations operating in Bangladesh if the ir salaries are paid in foreign currency. Exporters are permitted to open Exporters' Retention Quota accounts against a certain percentage of the repatriated export proceeds. Residents who opened an account abroad when residing abroad may maintain it after re- turning to Bangladesh. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency All foreign nationals, regardless of their status; diplomatic missions and their local officers; international nonprofit organizations; and foreign oil companies may maintain convertible taka accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of inward remit- tances in convertible foreign currency and may be debited for local payments in taka as well as for remittances abroad in convertible currency. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Bangladesh nationals residing abroad; foreign nationals, companies, and firms registered or incorporated abroad; banks and other f inanc ial institutions, including institutional investors; officers and staff of Bangladesh missions and government institutions; autonomous bodies; and commercial banks may open nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts that bear interest and are denominated in dollars, euros, pounds sterling, or Japanese yen. These ac- counts may be credited in initial minimum amounts equivalent to $1,000 or £500 ($25,000 for foreigners) with remittances in convertible currencies and transfers from existing for- eign currency deposit accounts maintained by Bangladesh nationals abroad. The accounts bear interest if their terms range from one month to one year. Bangladesh nationals may maintain a foreign currency account abroad while residing abroad and may continue to hold the account after returning to Bangladesh. The balance, including interest earned, may be transferred in foreign exchange by the account holder to any country or to any foreign cur- rency deposit account maintained by Bangladesh nationals abroad. The balances in the accounts, which are freely convertible into taka, must be reported monthly by banks to the BB. Nonresident Bangladesh nationals who did not open or maintain a foreign currency deposit account wh i le abroad may open a resident foreign currency deposit account with foreign exchange brought in from abroad within six months of the date of their return to take up permanent residence in Bangladesh. All nonresident accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is a permanent resident. (The accounts of the UN and its agencies are treated as resident accounts.) Bangladesh na t iona ls and persons of Bangladesh origin who are working abroad are permitted to open foreign currency accounts denom ina ted in dollars, euros, pounds sterling, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 94 BANGLADESH Domestic currency accounts or Japanese yen. These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances in convertible currencies received from abroad through normal banking and postal channels; (2) proceeds of convertible currencies (banknotes, traveler's checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holders, provided that amounts exceeding the equivalent of $3,000 have been declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; (3) transfers from other foreign currency accounts opened under the former Wage Earners' Scheme; and (4) transfers from nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. The accounts may be debited without restriction, but are subject to reporting to the BB. Foreign missions and embassies, their expatriate personnel, foreign airline and shipping companies, and international nonprofit organizations in Bangladesh may open interest- bearing accounts, but the interest earned may be disbursed in local currency only. For port- folio investments in Bangladesh, a nonresident may open a nonresident investor's taka account (NITA) with any AD with foreign exchange remitted from abroad through normal banking channels or through transfer of funds from a foreign currency account. These ac- counts may be used to effect all approved current transactions. Convertible into foreign currency Only funds from NIT As may be converted. Blocked accounts Amounts in nonresident taka accounts covering unapproved payments may be blocked by the BB. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Effective January 14, 2003, the margin requirements on 55 goods were reduced to 50% from 100% and the margin requirements for the opening of LCs against imports of rice and wheat were reduced to 25% from 50%. On October 16, 2003, banks were authorized to negotiate freely the margin requirements on LCs for imports of food items, except rice. Effective December 2, 2003, the fixed margin requirements were lifted. Advance payments for up to the equivalent in value of $2,500 may be made for certain imports. The BB allows other advance payments covering imports of specialized or capital goods, usually against a guarantee from a first-class overseas bank. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit An inspection is required for all imports, with a few exceptions. Payment against imports is generally permissible only under irrevocable LCs. However, a consignment of perishable food items not exceeding $7,500 or its equivalent in value may be imported overland without LCs; capital machinery and industrial raw materials may also be imported without LCs. Recognized export-oriented units operating under the bonded warehouse system may import up to four months' requirements of their raw and packing materials by establishing import LCs without reference to any export LC. They may also effect such imports by opening back-to-back LCs (either on a sight basis under the Export Development Fund, or for up to 180 days on a usance basis) against export LCs received by them. ADs may establish LCs on an f.o.b. basis without the approval of the BB, subject to certain conditions. Foreign exchange for authorized imports is provided automatically by ADs when payments are due. Other Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures All importers (including all government departments, with the exception of the Ministry of Defense) are required to obtain LCAFs for all imports. Under the authority of the IPO is- sued by the Chief Controller, importers are allowed to effect imports against LCAFs that are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments agreements and for imports under tied-aid programs. LCAFs are otherwise valid worldwide, except for imports from Israel and imports transported on Israeli flag vessels, which are prohibited. Goods must be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas BANGLADESH 95 shipped within 18 months of the date of issuance of LCAFs in the case of machinery and spare parts, and 12 months in the case of all other items. Items not specified in the control list of the IPO may be imported freely, provided that the importer has a valid import registration certificate. The control list contains 110 items in about 1,400 categories at the four-digit level of the Harmonized System Codes. The importation of these items is restricted or prohibited for public safety, religious, environmental, or social reasons, or if similar items are produced locally. Up to 26 items are restricted purely for trade purposes (7 of which are banned and 19 restricted). Exports of polybags are banned. On March 17, 2003, imports of sugar were banned; this ban was lifted on August 24, 2003. All items not on the control list may be imported freely by registered importers. Imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers are gov- erned by a quota system, based on the requirements for various industries during each im- port program period established by the Board of Investment (BOI). Firms in the industrial sector are assigned an import quota for specified raw materials and packing materials, and LCAFs are issued on the basis of the quota. The quota system does not apply to raw mate- rials and packing materials that may be imported freely but applies to items appearing on the control list. Separate LCAFs may be issued to industrial consumers of machinery parts and accessories. Goods imported against LCAFs issued to industrial consumers must be used in the industry concerned and may not be sold or transferred without prior approval. Import taxes and/or tariffs There are five tariff bands: zero, 5%, 15%, 25%, and 37.5%. A number of goods are subject to regulatory duties, import license fees, and infrastructure development charges. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Other Export licenses With quotas Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within four months of shipment unless otherwise permitted by the BB. Effective January 19, 2003, exporters are required to surrender to ADs 90% (previously, 92.5%) of the proceeds from exports of ready-made garments and other goods with high import content, and 50% (previously, 60%) of the proceeds from exports of merchandise and computer data entry and software services. They may use retained earnings for bona fide business purposes, such as business travel abroad; establishment and maintenance of offices abroad; participation in trade fairs and seminars; and imports of raw materials, spare parts, and capital goods. Fully foreign-owned industries and jo int ventures or Bangladesh industries, other than in the garment industry, located in export-processing zones (EPZs) are allowed to retain 100% and 80%, respectively, of their export earnings in a foreign currency deposit account. Joint ventures and Bangladesh industries in the ready-made gar- ment sector located in EPZs may retain 75% of their export earnings in a foreign currency deposit account. No. Yes. Yes. Exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports of about 20 product categories are banned. Some of these are restricted for nontrade reasons, while others are restricted to ensure the supply in the domestic market. Export licenses are required for all restricted items. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports imposes quotas on garment exports on the basis of the previous year's performance. The Export Promotion Bureau monitors quota use to reallocate unfilled quotas. Export taxes Exports of jute are taxed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 96 BANGLADESH Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Payments for invisibles related to authorized trade transactions are generally not restricted. There are controls on administrative expenses and commissions. Payments for unloading and storage services require prior approval. Up to 5% of export receipts (up to 33.3% in the case of books) may be remitted abroad for commissions with- out prior approval from the BB. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments ADs are allowed to remit dividends to nonresident shareholders without prior approval from the BB upon the receipt of applications from the companies concerned. Applications must be supported by an audited balance sheet; a profit and loss statement; and a board resolution declaring to their head offices dividends from profits earned from foreign firms, banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions operating in Bangladesh. These remittances are, however, subject to ex post checking by the BB. Prior approval No approval is required if loan agreements have been cleared by the BOI. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The limit for personal travel by resident Bangladesh nationals to countries other than Bhu- tan, India, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka is $3,000 a person a year or its equivalent; the allowance for air travel to these seven countries is $ 1,000. For new ex- porters, the indicative limit for business travel is $6,000 a person a year or its equivalent, wh i le established exporters are permitted to use balances held under the Export Retention Scheme (7.5% of exports of ready-made garments and 40% of other export proceeds). Manufacturers producing for the domestic market and importers are granted business travel allowances equivalent to 1% of turnover as declared in tax returns, and 1% of the value of imports, respectively. There is an annual ceiling of $5,000 or its equivalent in both cases. Amounts in excess of these limits require documents attesting to the bona fide nature of the transaction. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign exchange for education is available up to the cost of tuition and living expenses, as estimated by the educational institution concerned. Prior permission is not required for the remittance of fees for approved undergraduate, postgraduate, and professional courses. Foreign exchange is available for the costs of dependents abroad, after production of a cer- tificate from the Bangladesh embassy in the country concerned, up to a reasonable level that is based on prevailing prices. Prior approval is required for the transfer of pensions. Up to $10,000 or its equivalent may be obtained for medical expenses without prior ap- proval. Larger amounts may be obtained with approval of the BB after submission of documents attesting to the bona fide nature of the transactions. Indicative limits/bona fide test Applications for foreign exchange for studies abroad and for family maintenance are ap- proved upon verification of their bona fide nature. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Foreign nationals may remit freely up to 50% of net salary in connection with service con- tracts approved by the government. The entire amount of their earned leave pay and savings may also be freely remitted. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits General approval is given for credit card use by exporters against the foreign exchange retention entitlement and for use by other residents against the travel allowance. Credit cards may be used up to the amounts authorized for travel allowances and up to balances held in retention quota accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 97 Other payments Prior approval Prior permission is not required for the remittance of royalties and technical fees of up to 6% of sales by firms that are registered with the BOI. Indicative limits/bona fide test Industrial enterprises producing for local markets may remit up to 1% of sales receipts declared in the previous year's tax return for the purpose of training and consultancy. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exporters of services are required to surrender to ADs 95% of the proceeds (50% in the case of proceeds from computer services) and may use retained earnings for bona f ide business purposes. Bangladesh nationals working abroad may retain their earnings in for- eign currency accounts or in nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. Unless specifi- cally exempted by the BB, all Bangladesh nationals who reside in Bangladesh must surren- der any foreign exchange coming into their possession, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an AD within one month of the date of acquisition. However, returning residents may keep, in foreign currency accounts opened in their names, foreign exchange brought in at the time of return from abroad, provided that the amount does not represent proceeds from exports from Bangladesh or commissions earned from business activities in Bangla- desh. Residents may retain up to $3,000 or its equivalent brought into the country without declaration. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continuously for more than six months are required to surrender within one month of the date of acquisition any foreign exchange representing their earnings with respect to business conducted in Bangladesh or services rendered while in Bangladesh. Restrictions on use of funds Retained foreign exchange may be used for travel abroad or bona fide business purposes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may buy Bangladesh securities through stock exchanges against payment in freely convertible currency remitted from abroad through banking channels. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Proceeds from sales, including capital gains and dividends earned on securities purchased in Bangladesh, may be remitted abroad in freely convertible currency. Nonresidents may not issue securities in Bangladesh. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments These transactions are not allowed. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 98 BANGLADESH Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to prior approval of the Securities and Exchange Commis- sion. If an instrument is denominated in foreign currency, prior BB approval is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents ADs may obtain hedging abroad against exchange rate risks on underlying trade transactions. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial, credits By residents to nonresidents Export payments deferred for more than 120 days require BB authorization. To residents from nonresidents Deferred import payments are permitted for up to 360 days for equipment and machinery and for up to 180 days for industrial raw materials. Private industrial units may borrow funds from abroad with the approval of the BOI. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Except in certain cases, credits are subject to prior BB approval. To residents from nonresidents ADs may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and correspon- dents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Banks may issue guarantees or sureties in favor of nonresidents in relation to permissible current transactions on behalf of residents. To residents from nonresidents Receipt of guarantees or sureties by residents from abroad requires fu ll disclosure of the under ly ing transaction. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment All outward transfers of capital require approval. For resident-owned capital, approval is granted only in exceptional cases. Investments, except in the industrial sector, require approval. The Foreign Private Invest- ment (Promotion and Protection) Act provides for the protection and equitable treatment of foreign private investment, indemnification, protection against expropriation and nationali- zation, and guarantee for repatriation of investment. There is no ceiling on private invest- ment. Tax exemptions are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on location. Requests for repatriation of the proceeds from liquidation of direct investment (in unlisted companies) are subject to prior scrutiny of the BB; however, proceeds from the disinvest- ment of nonresidents' equity investments in unlisted public limited companies and in pri- vate limited companies may be repatriated freely. When a nonresident liquidates invest- ment through a sale to a resident investor, the net asset value of the shares of the company is used as the basis for calculating the repatriation of proceeds. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Remittances of funds for these purchases are not permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of real estate by a nonresident with funds from abroad are allowed. Sale locally by nonresidents Repatriation of sales proceeds are subject to prior approval by the BB, which is not normally granted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 99 Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are not allowed, except for borrowing by industrial enterprises in accor- dance with BOI guidelines and/or approval. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfers of title to nonresidents by way of inheritances are not restricted, but income and sales proceeds from such assets are not normally transferable abroad and are required to be used locally with prior authorization from the BB. A resident Bangladesh national must obtain prior approval from the government to receive gifts or endowments from a foreign donor. Inheritances must be reported to the BB. Net current income from estates inherited abroad must be repatriated. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants These transactions are normally not allowed, except for repayments on borrowing for in- dustrial investments in accordance with BOI guidelines. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are not allowed, except for the normal travel allowances that are allowed to residents for personal effects. Transfer into the country by immigrants These transactions are permitted, subject to a requirement that transfers exceeding $5,000 or its equivalent must be declared. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gambling is prohibited in Bangladesh. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad The regulations governing financial credits apply. Maintenance of accounts abroad The maintenance of these accounts is subject to notification to the BB. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending to nonresidents is not allowed, except with prior BB approval and in specific cases. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Interest rate controls Lending is subject to prior approval from the BB. ADs are permitted to use up to 50% of nonresident foreign currency deposit balances for (1) lending to exporters for settlement of back-to-back sight LCs for imports of inputs, and (2) discounting usance bills of wholly foreign-owned (type "A") EPZ units against input supplies to exporters. Purchases are subject to prior approval from the BB. Banks are required to maintain interest rates on foreign currency deposits in line with inter- national market rates. ADs are authorized to allow interest payments on ACU dollar accounts maintained with ADs by their correspondent banks in other ACU member countries. Open foreign exchange position limits In accordance with BB limits, authorized dealers' net open positions may not exceed 12.5% of their capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 100 BANGLADESH Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement May 31. The BB ceased announcing a trading band for the taka against the dollar for its transactions with ADs. As a result, the exchange rate regime of Bangladesh was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category conventional pegged arrangement. Arrangements for payments and receipts June 1. The limits for exports and imports of foreign currency without declaration were reduced to the equivalent of $3,000 from $5,000. Imports and import payments January 14. The margin requirements for the opening of LCs against imports of rice and wheat were reduced to 25% from 50%. The margin requirements on 55 items were reduced to 50% from 100%. Exports and export proceeds March 17. Imports of sugar were banned. August 24. The ban on imports of sugar was lifted. October 16. Banks were authorized to negotiate freely with customers margin requirements on LCs for imports of food, except rice. December 2. The fixed margin requirements were eliminated. January 19. The surrender requirements were reduced to 90% from 92.5% for export pro- ceeds from ready-made garments and other goods with high import content; and to 50% from 60% for proceeds from exports of merchandise and computer and data entry software services. Changes During 2004 Exchange arrangement February 25. ADs were permitted to undertake currency swaps and forward exchange transactions only against underlying approved commercial transactions. Arrangements for payments and receipts March 23. The threshold in excess of which imports of foreign currency banknotes and traveler's checks must be declared to customs was raised to the equivalent of $5,000 from $3,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position as of February 29, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 3, 1993. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados dollar. Gold coins with face values of BDSS50, BDS$100, BDSS150, BDSS200, and BDS$500 are legal tender and are in limited circulation. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control The Barbados dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at BDS$2 per US$ 1. Buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the euro, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted on the basis of their cross-rate relationships to the U.S. dollar. The quoted rates include commission charges of 0.125% buying and 1.75% selling against the U.S. dollar, and 0.1875% buying and 1,8125% selling against the Canadian dollar, euro, and pound sterling. Certain businesses are allowed to change foreign currency. No. No. The Central Bank of Barbados (CBB) periodically obtains forward cover in the interna- tional foreign exchange market to cover or hedge its own or the central government's ex- change risks associated with foreign exchange loans that are not denominated in U.S. dol- lars. Commercial banks are allowed to obtain forward cover in the international markets. The CBB and commercial banks enter into swap transactions in U.S. dollars, while com- mercial banks switch freely between nonregional currencies. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area may be made in any foreign currency or through an external account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with resi- dents of CARICOM countries other than Jamaica, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago may be made in the currency of the CARICOM country. Settlements with residents of Jamaica, Suriname, and Trinidad and Tobago may be made in U.S. dollars. CBB permission is re- quired for retail outlets to issue change in the same foreign currency in which purchases are made. Barbados is a member of the CARICOM. Under clearing arrangements with regional monetary authorities, the CBB currently sells only three CARICOM country currencies: the Bahamian dollar, the Eastern Caribbean dollar, and the Belize dollar. The Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana, and Jamaica dollars float against the U.S. dollar, and the CBB sets indicative selling rates based on rates supplied by the monetary authorities of these countries. These rates are applicable only to government transactions. Exchange control applies to'all countries, except those in the OECS, and is administered by the CBB, which delegates to authorized dealers (ADs) the authority to approve normal import payments and foreign exchange for cash gifts. Further authority is delegated to commercial banks with respect to current account transactions ranging from BDS$7,500 to BDS$250,000. Effective September 15, 2003, commercial banks may allow transfer of funds to CARICOM countries with respect to all current transactions except those for 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 102 BARBADOS International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency which special limits or restrictions apply. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Commerce, Consumer Affairs, and Business Development (MCCABD). The authority to approve payments to OECS countries is delegated to ADs. No. No. Residents, other than the monetary authorities, ADs, and industrial users, are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an AD, unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. The importation of gold by residents is permitted for industrial purposes and is subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the MCCABD. Exchange control permission is required to export gold. Travelers may take out up to BDS$500. Travelers may take out up to the equivalent of BDS$ 1,000. Nonresident visitors may export freely any foreign currency they previously brought in. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Subject to specific conditions under delegated authority, ADs may maintain foreign cur- rency accounts in the names of individuals and companies resident in Barbados whose an- nual earnings are at least BDS$50,000 and BDS$ 100,000, respectively. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to foreign currency accounts under conditions estab- lished at the time the account is opened. Other credits and debits require individual ap- proval. In cases where authority has not been delegated to ADs, the permission of the CBB is required. Companies operating in Barbados and earning a minimum of the foreign cur- rency equivalent of BDS$ 100,000 a year are allowed to maintain foreign currency accounts up to the equivalent of BDS$50,000 without reference to the CBB. Approval is given on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Yes. Permission of the CBB is required. Permission of the CBB is required. Permission of the CBB is required. Nonresident Accounts The regulations governing resident accounts apply. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, transfers from other external accounts, bank interest, and payments by residents for which the CBB has given general or specific permission. The accounts may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 103 business purposes and for any other payment covered by delegated authority to ADs. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. Convertible into foreign currency Balances on external accounts are convertible. Approval required Blocked accounts Nonresident holders of foreign currency accounts are not required to obtain central bank approval to remit funds abroad when the funds were not the result of payment for trade or nontrade transactions. The CBB may require certain payments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may not be with- drawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements ADs may release foreign exchange up to the equivalent of BDS$250,000 (c.i.f.) for ad- vance payments for imports into Barbados. Effective January 15, 2004, commercial banks may allow transfers of funds to CARICOM countries with respect to prepayment of imports from CARICOM countries. Other advance payments require the prior approval of the CBB. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of docu- mentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to ADs; payments for imports of crude oil and its derivatives are subject to the approval of the CBB. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Certain imports require individual licenses. Some items on the import-licensing list may be freely imported throughout the year, while others are subject to temporary restrictions (par- ticularly agricultural products, which tend to be subject to seasonal restrictions). Individual licenses are also required for imports of commodities that are subject to the provisions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago, whether the goods are being imported from CARICOM countries or from elsewhere. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Barbados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agricultural commodities. Not all goods that are subject to licensing are subject to quantitative restrictions or import surcharges. Customs duties corresponding to the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET are in the range of 5-20%. A VAT of 15% is levied. Tariffs ranging from 20% to over 200% apply to im- ports of prepared meats, detergents, and T-shirts. Chicken heads, backs, and necks; onions; and sugar may be imported only by the Barbados Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation, and m i lk may be imported only by the Pine Hill Dairy. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated within six months. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold to an AD within six months, but exporters may apply for exemptions. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any country, including rice, sugarcane, rum, molasses, certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and petroleum products. All other goods may be exported without license. Without quotas Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 104 With quotas Export taxes BARBADOS Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and the United States are subject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the EU. n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is required for amounts above the quantitative limits. Commercial banks may approve all payments for insurance, freight, advertising, commis- sions, and fees relating to imports. Commercial banks must report these transfers to the CBB. The limit on unloading, storage costs, and administrative expenses is BDS$250,000 a transaction. Yes. Yes. The limit for principal and interest payments is BDS$50,000 a year for individuals. Com- mercial banks are permitted to approve all payments abroad of profits and dividends to nonresident beneficiaries in and residents of CARICOM member countries. For payments of profits and dividends to residents of non-CARICOM member countries, approval is re- quired for amounts above BDS$250,000. Effective January 15, 2004, the limit for listed companies from the CARICOM region on investment in the securities exchange of Barbados no longer applies. (Previously, the limit was BDS$3 million .) Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The limits are BDS$7,500 a person a calendar year for private travel, and BDSS750 a day for business travel, up to BDS$50,000 a person a calendar year. Commercial banks have the authority to approve all payments for cash currency swaps by in-port ships and cruise liners. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is required for amounts above the limit. Payments for medical treatment and stud- ies abroad require approval from a commercial bank based on appropriate documentation. There are no limits on payments for medical treatment or studies abroad. The limit on cash gifts is BDS$5,000 a person a year; that for alimony and other maintenance is BDS$50,000 a person a year. Nonresidents may have their pensions remitted to them while residing out- side Barbados. Commercial banks may approve all payments with respect to bequests or inheritances that are due to beneficiaries resident in CARICOM countries, under the terms of the wills of persons who were resident or under the rules governing resident intestates for exchange control purposes. Beneficiaries residing outside the CARICOM are permitted to transfer abroad bequests or inheritances at the rate of BDS$ 100,000 a year. Commercial banks must, however, continue to report such transfers to the CBB. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Effective January 15, 2004, commercial banks may, without prior approval of the CBB, allow transfers of funds for payments of management services provided by residents of CARICOM countries. Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits BARBADOS 105 Nonresidents are allowed to remit amounts to cover commitments while employed in Barbados. Yes. Yes. The limits are the same as for travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Commercial banks are permitted to approve all payments abroad for charges and fees with respect to granting and registration of patents, designs, and trademarks. Effective April 15, 2003, commercial banks are permitted to approve all payments abroad for entrance and subscription fees due to nonresident credit and travel card companies. Approval is required for amounts above the limit. The l im it for subscriptions and membership fees is BDS$50,000 a person a year, and for consu l t ing and legal fees, BDS$ 100,000 for each nonresident beneficiary. Effective April 15, 2003, no l im i ts apply on subscriptions to magazines, cost of books for personal use, returns and refunds of deposits, and reimbursement of overpaid accounts and short postage payments. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to ADs. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Capital account transactions with the ECCB area denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars are free from controls, except for transactions in debt issues of OECS governments. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Effective January 15, 2004, the Barbados Stock Exchange has the authority to approve all investments in corporate securities in the form of equities cross-listed and cross-traded in CARICOM stock exchanges. This authority does not extend to government securities. Previously, these required CBB approval. Effective July 10, 2003, purchases and sales of shares and securities of companies cross- listed and cross-traded on any CARICOM stock exchange are permitted up to a limit of BDSS5 m i l l ion (previously, BDS$3 million) a transaction. This limit excludes any gov- ernment securities cross-listed or cross-traded on those stock exchanges. The limit for in- vestments in private unlisted securities in CARICOM countries is US$250,000. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of securities registered in Barbados require ex- change control approval, which is freely given provided that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. These purchases require exchange control approval, and certificates of title must be lodged with an authorized depository in Barbados except for regional securities purchased through the Securities Exchange of Barbados. Earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an AD. Sale or issue abroad by residents Exchange control approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 106 BARBADOS Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. Controls on credit operations The approval of the CBB is required for all credit operations. Controls on direct investment Direct investments require exchange control approval. Outward direct investment Effective July 10, 2003, commercial banks are authorized to approve investments in private unlisted securities in CARICOM countries up to US$250,000. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Liquidation of proceeds is permitted, provided that evidence documenting the validity of the remittance is submitted, all liabilities related to the investment have been discharged, and the original investment was registered with the CBB. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require exchange control approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire real estate in Barbados for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign cur- rency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated annual rate of return on the original foreign investment as follows: for the last 5 years, at 8%; for the 5 years immediately pre- ceding the last 5 years, at 5%; and for any period preceding the last 10 years, at 4%. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to remittances of BDSS3 0,000 a year. Loans Exchange control permission is required for the granting or receiving of loans. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets The annual limit is BDS$5,000 for gifts, and BDS$ 100,000 for endowments, inheritances, and legacies. Transfer abroad by emigrants The limit is BDS$ 100,000. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Nonresidents may take out winnings. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Any borrowing abroad by ADs to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the CBB. ADs may assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the fi- nancing of approved transfers with respect to both trade and nontrade transactions. Maintenance of accounts abroad Accounts must be maintained with overseas correspondent banks. Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) Exchange control permission is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements BARBADOS 107 Investment in local securities requires CBB approval. The reserve requirement ratio on deposits in foreign exchange is 21%, of which 16% must be maintained in stipulated government securities and 5% in cash. There is no liquidity requirement on deposits in foreign exchange. Effective February 16, 2004, the liquid asset requirement is 17% (previously, 24%) for domestic currency deposits in commercial banks, of which 12% (previously, 11%) must be placed in government securities and 5% in cash. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Nonresident deposit accounts are treated the same as resident deposit accounts. Differential treatment is based on whether the amount is in domestic currency. Open foreign exchange position limits Limits on working balances are set by the CBB. Those on other assets and liabilities are controlled through the Exchange Control Act. If a bank has a short position in forward transactions, it may maintain a long spot position equivalent to 20% of the short position in forward transactions or 15% of spot liabilities, whichever is higher. If a bank does not have a short position in forward transactions, it may maintain a long spot position equivalent to 15% of spot liabilities. Banks must report weekly to the Foreign Exchange and Export Credits Department of the CBB. Provisions specific to institutional investors Approval is required for investment of pension funds abroad. A 6% tax is levied on portfo- lio investments of pension funds with foreign companies that are not registered with the Barbados Supervisor of Insurance. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts September 15. Commercial banks were authorized to approve transfers of funds to CARICOM countries with respect to all current transactions with the exception of certain specified transactions to which special limits or restrictions apply. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments April 15. Commercial banks were permitted to approve payments abroad for entrance and subscription fees due to nonresident credit and travel card companies, subscriptions to magazines, costs of books for personal use, returns and refunds of deposits, reimbursement of overpaid accounts and short postage payments, and all quantitative limits on these trans- actions were lifted. July 10. The limit on purchases and sales of shares and securities of companies cross-listed and cross-traded on any CARICOM stock exchange was increased to BDS$5 million from BDS$3 million a transaction. Controls on direct investment July 10. Commercial banks were authorized to approve investments in private unlisted securities in CARICOM countries up to US$250,000. Changes During 2004 Imports and import payments January 15. Commercial banks were authorized to approve transfers of funds to CARICOM countries with respect to prepayment for imports from CARICOM countries. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 15. The limit for listed companies in the CARICOM region for investment in the securities exchange of Barbados was removed. Previously, a limit of BDSS3 million applied. January 15. Commercial banks were authorized to approve transfer of funds to foreign workers for payments of management services provided by the residents of CARICOM countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 108 BARBADOS Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 15. The Barbados Stock Exchange was authorized to approve all investments in corporate securities in the form of equities cross-listed and cross-traded in CARICOM stock exchanges. February 16. The liquid asset requirements for domestic currency deposits in commercial banks were reduced to 17% from 24%, of which 12% (previously, 11%) is required to be placed in government securities and 5% held in cash. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS (Position as of April 30, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 5, 2001. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Belarus is the Belarusian rubel. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Crawling band The rubel is de ju re pegged to the Russian ruble under a system in which the National Bank of Belarus (NBB) sets the o f f ic ial exchange rate against the Russian ruble based on the results of trading sessions on the Belarus Currency and Stock Exchange (BCSE). This off i- cial rate is adjusted quarterly w i th in an announced narrow path. To contain inflationary expectations, the NBB takes into account the exchange rate of the rubel against the dollar when making these adjustments. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. n.a. Forward exchange market The forward market is regulated by the same provisions as the spot market. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements of transactions between residents and nonresidents are effected in freely con- vertible currencies. Settlements in other currencies and Belarusian rubels are effected if provided for by intergovernmental agreements or arrangements between the central banks of both parties to the settlements. Settlements in Belarusian rubels between residents and nonresidents of the countries with which such arrangements have been concluded may be effected through nonresident accounts in domestic banks through correspondent accounts in Belarusian rubels of nonresident banks with authorized banks in Belarus. Settlements with nonresidents in rubels are also allowed regardless of the existence of an intergovernmental agreement, provided that settlements are effected through a nonresident rubel account at a bank in Belarus. In accordance with the agreements between the NBB and the central banks of most CIS countries (except Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan), settlements are effected in the national cur- rencies of the parties involved in the settlements, and in freely convertible currencies. Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents Settlements between residents in foreign currency are prohibited, except in cases established by law or the NBB. 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 110 BELARUS Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Yes. Belarus has arrangements with Moscow and various other regions in Russia. An agreement with Uzbekistan provides for the exchange of cotton for strategic goods from Belarus on a balanced basis. There are also agreements with Moldova and Ukraine. The exchange regulation authorities are the Council of Ministers and the NBB, while the exchange control authorities are the Council of Ministers, the NBB, the State Control Committee, and the State Customs Committee. The exchange control agents are banks, customs offices, bodies of the state administration, and state organizations subordinate to the Government of Belarus and oblast (local) governments. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents (other than banks) are required to have a license issued by the MOF to engage in transactions in precious metals and stones. When effecting banking operations with pre- cious metals and stones, banks are required to have a license issued by the NBB. Banks must obtain a license from the MOF to engage in nonbanking operations in precious metals and stones. Controls on external trade Licenses for residents to export precious metals and stones are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Residents and nonresidents may export up to the equivalent of 100 times the Belarusian yearly minimum wage. Effective March 14, 2003, resident and nonresident natural persons may freely export the equivalent of $3,000 (previously, $1,500) —amounts greater than this l im it and up to the equivalent of $10,000 require documentary evidence certifying the origin of the funds. Traveler's checks in foreign currencies may be exported without restriction, but they must be declared. Exports of foreign currencies to states participating in the customs un ion are unlimited. The import of up to the equivalent of 100 times the Belarusian yearly minimum wage is allowed. Foreign currency There are no l im i ts on imports of foreign currency, but they must be declared upon arrival. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Without declaring the sources of their foreign exchange, residents may open foreign cur- rency accounts at commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Yes. NBB approval is required. No approval is required for accounts of individuals residing abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS in Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Residents require NBB approval to open domestic currency accounts abroad. Resident juridical persons may purchase foreign currency: (1) to pay for imports of goods, labor, and services; (2) to pay for business travel and training expenses abroad; (3) to repay credits and loans granted by authorized banks in Belarus or by nonresidents and pay inter- est thereon; and (4) to make a number of other transactions that have been specified by the NBB. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Nonresident Accounts Nonresident jur id ical persons may ma in ta in foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks in Belarus. The source of the funds may be receipts from abroad; proceeds from the sale of goods and services in the territory of Belarus, inc lud ing sales to residents; debt- service payments; interest earned on balances on the accounts; funds from other foreign exchange accounts of nonresidents in Belarus; and earnings from investments from the performance of other operations with residents and nonresidents. These accounts may be debited for purchases of goods and services and for investments, as well as for payments to residents and nonresidents. Funds from these accounts may be freely repatriated or ex- changed for Belarusian rubels at the market exchange rate through authorized banks. Approval from the central bank concerned is required to open accounts for nonresidents if this requirement is contained in the arrangement governing the settlements. Nonresident jur id ical persons may open I (investment), T (current), and S (investment in government securities) accounts at authorized commercial banks. I accounts may be cred- ited with Belarusian rubel funds arising from foreign exchange sales, dividends, resources from the liquidation of enterprises, and compensation in the event of the nationalization of enterprises. The uses of resources from I accounts inc lude purchases of foreign currency, shares of enterprises, and privatization checks. T accounts are used for current operations. Proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies and of goods and services as well as resources from the placement of money in deposits and other debt obligations of banks are transferred into them. Resources from T accounts may be used to purchase goods and services and bonds, and to pay for current expenditures. Nonresidents may purchase foreign currency with Belarusian rubels from T accounts and correspondent accounts of nonresident banks opened at authorized banks in Belarus. Funds in S accounts are used for investment in securities issued by the Belarusian government and the NBB. Proceeds from the sale of freely convertible currencies and/or Russian rubles, as well as proceeds from the redemption or sale of government and NBB securities by non- residents, are deposited in S accounts if the original purchases were made with payments from S accounts. Balances on T, I, and S accounts may be converted into foreign currency. In these operations, balances on S accounts may be converted into foreign currency, provided that the nonresident was a holder of securities of the government or the NBB for a time period established by the NBB. Opening of accounts for nonresidents is subject to approval of the central banks of the country of the nonresidents concerned, if this regulation is contained in the arrangements governing settlements between Belarus and the country concerned. Blocked accounts n.a. Foreign exchange budget n.a. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Effective January 1, 2004, a foreign bank guarantee is required for advance payments for goods or services exceeding the equivalent of $500,000 (previously, $100,000). For payments for imported services more than 90 days in advance of the performance of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 112 BELARUS services and for imported goods more than 60 days in advance of the receipt of the goods, permission from the Ministry of Trade (MOT) is required; for advance payment of more than 180 days, NBB approval is required. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are required for imports of the following goods: raw cane; white sugar; starch syrup; yeast and other dead unicellular microorganisms; alcohol products; carpets and floor coverings; disinfectants; malt beer; edible oils; pesticides; soap; and tires. Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs There are prohibitions on imports of production and consumption wastes that cannot be processed or used in Belarus and on printed matter, audiovisual materials, and other infor- mation media containing information that may harm the political or economic interests or security of Belarus, or the health and morals of Belarusian citizens. Quantitative restrictions are applied to raw cane and sugar, alcohol, tobacco products, sea- food, and deep water fish. Belarus has abolished customs controls and customs processing of goods moving between Belarus and Russia. Steps are being taken to establish a uniform trade policy with third countries, in particular, Vietnam and Serbia and Montenegro. The tariff structure consists of higher rates that apply to goods such as weapons, ammunition, precious metal products, carpets, motor vehicles, alcohol, and certain other goods. Seasonal tariffs apply to raw cane and sugar. Regular (base) import duty rates apply to countries with MFN status. Duties at twice the MFN rates are imposed on goods imported from countries that do not have MFN status. VAT is collected on imports from all countries except Russia. Excise taxes are col- lected on imports from all countries, with the exception of goods from Russia that are marked with excise tax stamps. About 60% of tariff nomenclature has been unified among Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Russia, and to a lesser extent, Belarus, the Kyrgyz Republic, and Tajikistan. Precious metal ingots imported by banks for purposes of banking operations and by juridi- cal persons for purposes of selling to banks are exempt from customs duties and VAT; also exempt are sales by juridical persons to banks, transactions between banks, and sales by banks to natural persons. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports of goods and services must be repatriated within 90 days, and pro- ceeds from other exports of goods and services produced by residents under commission contracts must be repatriated within 180 days. Special MOT approval is required for longer time periods, and special NBB approval is required for periods exceeding 180 days. Surrender requirements Financing requirements The surrender requirement is 30%. No. Documentation requirements A transaction certificate or a statistical declaration is required. Export licenses Licenses are required for exports of the following goods: fabrics made of wool yarn; cotton thread, yarn, and fabric; thread from chemical fibers; yarn and fabric made of artificial and synthetic fibers and blended fibers; cable and rope products; terry cloth towels and similar terry cloth fabrics; interwoven interlock fabrics; socks and hosiery articles; knitted clothing accessories; textile clothing and accessories; blankets, throws, and bed, table, bath, and kitchen linens; dishcloths; curtains, window shades, and bedspreads; sacks; paper bags; floor cleaning fabrics; and sets consisting of fabrics and yarn (only for goods to be exported to the EU and Turkey). In addition, exports of the following goods are effected on the basis of MOT-issued licenses: mushrooms, cranberries and blueberries, grains, flax seeds and rape seeds, alcohol products, ethyl alcohol, raw amber, burned pyrites, unprocessed lumber, precious metals and precious stones in any form or state, crude oil and oil products, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution W i th quotas Export taxes Other export taxes BELARUS 113 rawhides and animal skins. Contracts for exports of petroleum refining products by non- producers of these products must be registered with the MOT. Minimum export prices ap- ply to unrolled pig iron and steel, fiberboard, chipboard, lumber, mushrooms, natural resin, berries, flax fiber, leather, and mineral fertilizer. Mineral fertilizers and ferrous and nonferrous metal waste are subject to export quotas and licensing requirements, as are exports of textiles to the EU and Turkey and exports of fiberglass to the United States. VAT and excise taxes are collected on goods exported to Russia. Under the arrangement of the common customs region with Russia, export customs duties are collected on a list of goods with a low degree of processing that are exported outside the customs union. Most duties are on an ad valorem basis and range from 5% to 30%. Specific and combined duties are also levied. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits There are no restrictions on the purchase of foreign exchange for bona fide expenses related to business travel. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds from services must be repatriated within 90 days, and proceeds from exports of services performed by residents under commission contracts must be repatriated within 180 days. Special MOT approval is required to extend repatriation periods, and special permission from the NBB is required for periods exceeding 180 days. Surrender requirements The surrender requirement is 30%. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities The government and the NBB establish quotas and procedures for clearing the securities of foreign issuers for circulation in Belarus and quotas and procedures for clearing securities of issuers under the jurisdiction of Belarus for circulation outside Belarus. The domestic placement of stocks and bonds of foreign issuers and foreign placement of stocks and bonds of domestic issuers are permitted, subject to regulations. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchases or sales locally by nonresidents require registration with the Securities Committee (SC) under the Council of Ministries (COM) for shares to be exported. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents A permit from the NBB and registration with the BCSE and, when necessary, with the SC are required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Registration of securities is required. The NBB regulates the issue of certificates of deposit (CDs) and saving certificates by banks. These may be issued both in domestic currency and in foreign exchange. Banks are not allowed to export bank certificates. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 114 BELARUS Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents A permit is not required for sale. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents An NBB permit is not required. Transfers of CDs to nonresidents are prohibited. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents An NBB permit is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Controls on the purchase or sale locally by nonresidents are administered by the SC under the COM (Resolution of the State Securities Committee No. 43/P). Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents An NBB permit is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on purchase or sale locally by nonresidents are administered by the SC under the COM (Resolution of the State Securities Committee No. 43/P). Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents An NBB permit is required. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits A permit is required for deferral of receipt of export proceeds. For deferrals of 90 to 180 days, the permit is issued by the MOT; for deferrals of more than 180 days, the permit is issued by the NBB. The same procedures apply to advance payments. By residents to nonresidents An NBB permit is required if the credit is for longer than 180 days. To residents from nonresidents Registration with the NBB is required for credits longer than 180 days. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment A permit from the NBB is required. Foreign investments must be registered with the Minsk City Executive Committee; finan- cial institutions must also register them at the NBB. In the case of insurance institutions, foreign investments must be registered also with the State Insurance Oversight Committee. Certain activities require special approval (license). When establishing an enterprise with foreign investments, the proportion of a foreign investor's share is not restricted, except for insurance organizations, which may not exceed 49%. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Foreign investors are guaranteed fu ll repatriation of their initial investment capital and prof i ts earned in Belarus. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents An NBB permit is required. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents An NBB permit is required for loans with maturities of more than 180 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELARUS 115 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Foreign currency purchases and sales may be performed by jur id ical persons, resident and nonresident individuals, and authorized banks on both the foreign exchange market and the over-the-counter exchange market. Borrowing abroad These operations may be performed on the basis of bank ing licenses. Maintenance of accounts abroad These operations may be performed on the basis of bank ing licenses. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Credits may be extended to nonresidents for investment activity. These transactions are permitted for purposes of settlements with nonresidents and of set- tlements with residents who have the appropriate permits; purchases and sales of foreign currency and conversion to another foreign currency for purposes of settlements specified under the lending agreement are permitted. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Effective April 1, 2004, domestic currency deposits held by natural persons are subject to a reserve requirement of 8% (previously, 10%). All other deposits are subject to a reserve requirement of 10% (NBB Resolution No. 4). On January 1, 2003, all deposits were subject to a unified reserve requirement of 10% (NBB Resolution No. 220). Effective April 1, 2004, domestic currency deposits held by natural persons are subject to a reserve requirement of 8%. All other deposits are subject to a reserve requirement of 10% (NBB Resolution No. 4). On January 1, 2003, all reserve requirements were un if ied at 10%. Coordination with the NBB is required. In banks by nonresidents Coordination with the NBB is required. Open foreign exchange position limits Open foreign exchange position limits are established for each type of foreign currency separately and also for the aggregate position. Limits are computed as a whole by type of foreign currency regardless of whether assets (liabilities) belong to a resident or nonresident. The following l im i ts based on a bank's equity capital have been established on open for- eign exchange positions: (1) an overall open foreign exchange position of 20%; (2) an open foreign exchange position of 10% for each type of foreign currency on balance-sheet ac- counts and off-balance sheet accounts; and (3) an open foreign exchange position of 10% on forward transactions for each type of foreign currency. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Controls are administered by the SC under the COM (Resolution of the State Securities Committee No. 43/P). Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 14. The limit on the amount of foreign currency resident and nonresident natural persons are allowed to export without documentary proof of its origin was increased to the equivalent of $3,000, from $1,500. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. All reserve requirements were un i f ied at 10%, regardless of the type of deposit (NBB Resolution No. 220). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 116 BELARUS Changes During 2004 Imports and import payments January 1. The l im it at which a foreign bank guarantee is required for advance payments was increased to the equivalent of $500,000 a transaction, from $100,000. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions April 1. The reserve requirements for domestic currency deposits of resident and nonresi- dent natural persons were reduced to 8% from 10%, while the requirement for all other deposits remained at 10% (NBB Resolution No. 4). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Belgium is the euro. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Belgium participates in the EMU with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. The ECB may intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate, No. No. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, cer- tain restrictions are maintained on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions with respect to the former government of Iraq, Myanmar, certain indi- viduals associated with the previous government of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe. In accordance with EU Regulation No. 147/2003, effective January 27, 2003, financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia are prohibited. Restrictions also apply to transfers with respect to the Taliban and terrorist organizations and individuals associated therewith. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Yes. Resident Accounts 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 118 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs BELGIUM Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. These accounts are affected by international security restrictions. The accounts held in the names of several former Yugoslav officials are still blocked, as are accounts of the Taliban, some residents of Myanmar, terrorist organizations and individuals associated therewith, and certain officials of Zimbabwe. Effective February 25, 2003, restrictions against the UNITA movement in Angola were lifted. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Yes. Individual licenses are required for certain specified imports from some non-EU countries, including many textile and steel products, diamonds, weapons, nontextile products from China, and shoes from Vietnam. All other products are free from license requirements. A licensing requirement applies to steel imports from several non-EU countries. Along with other EU countries, the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EU countries in the framework of the MFA; on a number of steel products from Kazakhstan, Russia, and Ukraine; and on a number of products from China (ceramics, porcelain, and shoes). Belgium applies the Common Import Regime of the EU to imports of most agricultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export licenses are required for only a few products (mostly of a strategic character), for weapons, and for diamonds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM 119 Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. No authorization is required for inward direct investment in Belgium, except for the acqui- sition of Belgian flag vessels by shipping companies that do not have their principal office in Belgium. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors No. No. No. No. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition These regulations are maintained, but the introduction of the euro has considerably reduced their significance. The EU allows its member countries to maintain such regulations. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. Financing of and f inanc ial assistance related to military activities in Somalia were prohibited. Nonresident accounts February 25. The f inanc ial sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola were l if ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 14, 1983. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belize is the Belize dollar. There are two exchange rates: the official exchange rate and the market rate. The Belize dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of BZ$1 per US$0.5. The Central Bank of Belize (CBB) quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and a number of currencies of CARICOM member countries. Commer- cial banks are allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange at the official rate. Exchange houses are authorized and allowed to deal in foreign exchange. They must purchase foreign exchange at the official rate and sell it at the official exchange rate plus an adjustable ser- vice charge to be determined by the CBB; currently, the maximum service charge— inclusive of the 1.2% stamp duty—is 7.5%. Exchange houses must sell 5% of the gross amount of each foreign exchange purchase to the CBB at the official exchange rate. Ex- change houses are not allowed to purchase foreign exchange earned by major exports, such as bananas, citrus products, shrimp, and sugar. A stamp duty of 1.25% is levied on all conversions from the Belize dollar to a foreign currency. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and o ther instruments Credit operations Export processing zone (EPZ) businesses may use only U.S. dollars for all transactions except payments for labor, which may be made in domestic currency. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents Residents with earnings in foreign exchange may pay their taxes, utility bills, and other expenses in U.S. dollars. Payments arrangements Yes. Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Belize is a member of CARICOM. Belize participates in the CMCF. 120 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade BELIZE 121 The CBB is responsible for administering exchange controls, which apply to transactions with all countries. Authority covering a wide range of transactions is delegated to the com- mercial banks in their capacity as authorized dealers. Only exceptional cases and applica- t ions invo lv ing substantial amounts are referred directly to the CBB. However, all applica- tions for foreign exchange processed by authorized dealers are regularly forwarded to the CBB for audit and record keeping. No. No. Residents may not hold gold without specific authorization from the CBB. Controls on external trade Gold may not be imported or exported without the approval of the CBB. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Each traveler may take abroad up to BZS100. Amounts beyond this limit require the approval of the CBB, which is liberally granted when justified. The amount of foreign currency that each resident traveler may take abroad is left to the discretion of the commercial banks and is subject to availability and guided by limits. Non- residents may take out up to the amount imported or the limits specified. Each traveler may bring in up to BZ$100. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be opened both domestically and abroad. Commercial banks are au- thorized to open foreign currency accounts for residents. The CBB reserves the right to prohibit specific accounts. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Approval required Banks must obtain permission from the CBB to open external or foreign currency accounts. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currency. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts The CBB may stipulate that sums to be credited or paid to foreign residents be credited to a blocked account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 122 BELIZE Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Yes. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Prepayments for imports require authorization from the CBB; in most cases, such authori- zation is delegated to the commercial banks. The CBB rations its sales of foreign exchange to commercial banks on an ad hoc basis, except for payments for a few essential import items, such as fuel and Pharmaceuticals. Letters of credit Other Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs For reasons of health, standardization, and protection of domestic industries, import li- censes from the Ministry of Industry are required for a number of goods —mostly food and agricultural products, and certain household and construction products; such licenses are granted liberally. Customs duties corresponding to the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET range from 5% to 20%, with a number of items (particularly agricultural inputs) entering duty-free. Imports by most of the public sector and certain nonprofit entities, imports of an emergency or hu- manitarian nature, and goods for reexport are exempt from import duties; goods originating from the CARICOM area are also exempt. Some items are subject to revenue replacement duties ranging from 5% to 25%. An environmental tax of 1% is levied on a broad range of imports. Specific duties and surcharges apply to certain products. State import monopoly The Belize Marketing Board has an import monopoly on rice, potatoes, onions, and carrots. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than six months after the date of shipment, unless otherwise directed by the CBB. The CBB makes direct pur- chases of sugar export proceeds, bypassing the traditional practice of purchasing from commercial banks. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for live animals, excluding pets; fish, crustaceans, and mol- lusks, excluding agricultural species; lumber and logs; beans; citrus fruits; and sugar. Yes. Transshipments are subject to a 1.5% customs administration fee. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers The CBB rations its sale of foreign exchange for invisible payments to commercial banks on an ad hoc basis. Trade-related payments There are controls on the payment of commissions. Prior approval For the payment and transfer of commissions, approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the Commissioner of Income Tax (CIT). Investment-related payments Repayments of loans are subject to CBB approval and require a copy of the loan agree- ment, amortization schedule, and proof of the loan disbursement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits BELIZE 123 For interest payments, approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. For transfer of profits and dividends, an income statement and a declaration of dividends must be presented along with clearance by the CIT. The following limits are in effect: (1) for nonbusiness travel by residents, up to BZ$5,000 a person a trip; (2) for business travel by residents, BZ$500 a person a day, up to a maximum of BZ$20,000 a year; (3) for business or nonbusiness travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year, unless payment is made from an external account or from proceeds of for- eign currency. Resident travelers are required to sell their excess holdings of foreign cur- rencies to an authorized dealer upon returning to Belize. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Payments related to medical costs are made directly to a doctor or hospital with original invoices or b i l ls supporting the application. For the transfer of pensions and payments for family maintenance and alimony, CBB ap- proval and CIT clearance are required. Quantitative limits The limit for gifts is BZ$100 a donor. Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign exchange is provided by authorized dealers for payment of correspondence courses when applications are properly documented. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Approval for remittances of wages is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. For the transfer of consulting and legal fees, approval is granted by the CBB, subject to clearance by the CIT. Indicative limits/bona fide test Similar requirements apply for subscriptions and membership fees for study abroad. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold to an authorized dealer. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions All capital transfers require the approval of the CBB, but controls are administered liberally. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents There are controls on all these transactions. There are controls on all these transactions. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 124 BELIZE To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions EPZ developers, EPZ businesses, commercial free zone (CFZ) developers, and CFZ busi- nesses may obtain loans or advances up to US$1 million from offshore banks. Loans or advances in excess of this amount require written CBB approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Inward direct investment must be registered with the CBB if the profits are to be repatriated in the future. Repatriation of proceeds requires clearance by the CIT. There is a land speculation tax of 5% of the unimproved value of land holdings exceeding 300 acres. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are controls on all these transactions. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings The repatriation of gambling proceeds by nonresidents requires clearance by the CIT. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Benin is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1, wh ich is the o f f ic ial buy ing and selling rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market vis-a-vis the euro. There is a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered to the treasury. Banks are authorized to charge a maximum commission of 2% on nonelectronic exchange transactions in euros. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Benin is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account; therefore, settle- ments with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are ma in ly made in euros, but they may also be made in foreign currencies. Settlements outside the Operations Account area may be effected Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control freely. Yes. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. Most purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are u l t ima te ly settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A mu l t i la teral clearing agreement exists between the WAEMU members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mau r i tan ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jo in t ly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Regulations govern- ing the external f inanc ial relations of WAEMU member states delegate the approval proc- ess for most foreign exchange transactions to authorized banks. The only transactions that remain subject to the prior authorization of these institutions relate to outward investment, the domestic and foreign currency accounts of residents, and resident accounts abroad. W i th in the framework of the regional f inanc ial market, the placement and soliciting of foreign and domestic securities in Benin require the prior authorization of the RCPSFM. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 126 BENIN Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization of the MOF. The export of CFA franc banknotes by travelers is allowed. However, repurchase of ex- ported banknotes by the BCEAO remains suspended. Furthermore, the shipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondents located outside the WAEMU zone is strictly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Residents traveling outside the BCEAO zone are allowed to take out foreign currency equivalent to CFAF 2 million a per- son. Larger amounts may be exported in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Nonresidents bring- ing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 1 million must declare them to customs upon entry. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must surrender the excess amount to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days of their return. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or with banks abroad with the authorization of the MOF, which is granted after obtaining approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Commercial banks are authorized to approve requests for opening nonresident accounts in euros. Opening accounts in other currencies requires BCEAO authorization. Nonresident accounts are valid for two years. At the end of this period, the beneficiary of the account must submit a request for renewal. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the WAEMU area, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO bank- notes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without prior authorization of the MOF. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresidents may freely debit their foreign accounts in francs for the purpose of purchasing foreign currency on the off ic ial foreign exchange market. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 127 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. A domiciliation requirement applies to all imports from outside the franc zone exceeding CFAF 5 million. All imports arriving by sea and exceeding CFAF 3 m i l l ion and overland imports exceeding CFAF 1.5 m i l l ion are subject to prior inspection. Certain imports, e.g., narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). A 1% common solidarity fee and a tax of 0.5%, based on the c.i.f. value of imports, are levied on ECOWAS imports. A statistical tax of 1% is levied on all imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports must be received within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries are not required to be repatriated. Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks within 30 days of the payment due date. Authorized intermediaries must then surrender the foreign exchange to the BCEAO by transfer through the bank of issue. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All export transactions require a customs declaration. Letters of credit Domiciliation Other Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Yes. All exports of more than CFAF 5 million, except those to WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Yes. Exports are permitted on the basis of a simple authorization from the Directorate of For- eign Trade, which issues a certificate of origin as needed. Exports of diamonds, gold, and all other precious metals, however, require prior authorization of the MOF, with the exception of articles with small gold content, travelers' personal effects weighing less than 500 grams, and coins (fewer than 10 pieces, irrespective of their face value and denomination). Exports of teakwood and other varieties of unprocessed wood and charcoal are banned. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for inv is ib les to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Bona fide tests are conducted by authorized intermediary banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 128 BENIN Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Yes. Yes. The threshold of foreign exchange to be surrendered by residents after travel is CFAF 300,000. Yes. Yes. Payments abroad related to wages, salaries, and honoraria; contributions and benefits; pensions and work-related activities; and service contracts are generally authorized upon presentation of the appropriate documentation. Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Credit card use abroad Other payments The use of credit cards is allowed only when issued by specialized institutions. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions with non-WAEMU member countries must be repatriated. Proceeds from transactions with WAEMU members may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries with respect to services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions According to exchange regulations within the WAEMU, essentially all capital inflows may take place freely. Capital outflows in the form of repayment of credits, liquidation of in- vestments, and purchases of option contracts may also be carried out freely, but they must be declared to the MOF for information purposes. All investments abroad by residents re- quire prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of the financing of such investments should be effected by borrowing from abroad. The granting of credits by residents to non- residents requires documentation for statistical purposes. Prior RCPSFM authorization is required for the issue or sale of securities or real estate by nonresidents as well as for the solicitation and advertisement of investments abroad. The issue of securities and the sale of corporate or foreign securities in Benin by nonresidents are subject to prior RCPSFM authorization. There are no controls on the sale of securities resulting from the divestiture of investment in the form of a transfer between a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 129 nonresident and a resident, but such sales are subject to the regulations governing the financial settlement of the operation. Settlement of securities transactions by transfer abroad or by credit to a nonresident account requires an exchange authorization to be submitted to the MOF for approval, accompanied by supporting documentation. Purchase abroad by residents Prior MOF authorization is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may sell local corporate securities abroad. If these operations result in foreign control of Beninese establishments, foreign investors are required to make a prior declara- tion to the MOF. The sale of securities to liquidate an investment abroad is subject to decla- ration to the MOF for statistical purposes. The proceeds in foreign exchange from sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank within one month. Residents may also issue securities abroad, except for those constituting a loan. Issuance of the latter to nonresidents must be made through an authorized bank and must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire money market instruments through local banks. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue by nonresidents of money market instruments on the local market is sub- ject to prior authorization by the RCPSFM. The transfer of the proceeds from these opera- tions is unrestricted if the issue itself has received prior authorization, and must be effected through an authorized bank and reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no controls on the sale of money market instruments abroad by residents. Sales to liquidate an investment are subject to a declaration to the MOF for statistical purposes. The proceeds in foreign exchange from sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. The issue by residents of money market instruments abroad is governed by the provisions pertaining to borrowing. On collective investment securities The regulations governing money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Residents are not allowed to purchase abroad new securities with the aim of delivering these within the framework of a sell option contract. If the execution of a contract requires delivery abroad, the sell option must have underlying assets that may be bought locally by residents. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The issue of a loan in the form of securities requires prior approval by the MOF. Such ap- proval is not required, however, for loans contracted by authorized intermediaries or those that comply with specific conditions as to amount and interest rate. Foreign borrowing by residents is subject only to reporting for statistical purposes. Granting of such credits is subject to two provisions. First, claims resulting from exports of goods must be collected and the corresponding amounts repatriated through the BCEAO within 30 days of the payment due date stipulated in the commercial contract. Generally, the period allowed for payment must not exceed 120 days following the arrival of the mer- chand ise at its des t ina t ion. Second, claims resulting from services must also be collected and surrendered to an authorized dealer or the BCEAO no later than one month after the payment due date. These credits may be freely granted. Repayment is usua l ly authorized, subject to presenta- tion of the relevant proof of execution of the commercial transaction or the provision of the service, as well as the payment due date. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 130 BENIN Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities The granting of financial credits requires the prior authorization of the MOF. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these facilities, an exchange authorization must be submit- ted with the required documentation to the MOF. These credits may be granted freely. Transfers of the funds must be processed through an authorized intermediary. However, if these operations take place between a direct invest- ment company established in Benin and its parent company abroad, they are considered direct investments and are therefore subject to prior declaration to the MOF. By residents to nonresidents The granting of these facilities requires the prior authorization of the MOF. To residents from nonresidents The regulations governing f inanc ial credits apply. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Prior approval by the MOF is required. At least 75% of such investments must be financed by foreign loans. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized in- termediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign exchange account in CFA francs, the payment may not be made be- fore the end of the period agreed to by the parties. These investments, including their transfer between nonresidents, are subject to prior decla- ration to the MOF for statistical purposes. Proceeds may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign exchange account in CFA francs upon presentation of the required documentation to an authorized intermediary responsible for payment. The liquidation of investments abroad by a resident requires a declaration to the MOF for information purposes. The reinvestment of the proceeds of the liquidation is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. If the reinvestment has not been authorized, the proceeds of the liquidation must be repatriated within one month through an authorized intermediary. Real estate investments abroad by residents are subject to prior approval by the MOF. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized intermediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign exchange account in CFA francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the pe- riod agreed to by the parties. There are no controls on purchases, except in the case of direct investment in an enterprise, branch, or corporation. Proceeds from the sale of real estate may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a for- eign exchange account in CFA francs upon presentation of the required documentation to the authorized intermediary responsible for payment. Personal capital movements between residents and nonresidents must be made through the BCEAO, the postal service, or an authorized intermediary bank, unless prior authorization is obtained from the MOF. These transactions require the prior authorization of the MOF. The ind iv idua ls concerned may not engage in such operations as a professional occupation without first being licensed and included in the list of financial institutions. To residents from nonresidents Loans from nonresidents to residents may be granted freely, requiring only a declaration to the MOF for statistical purposes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Except for inheritances and dowries, for which payments are generally authorized, pay- ments pertaining to these operations require prior MOF authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 131 Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants who have obtained resident status must obtain prior authorization from the MOF to settle debts incurred abroad while they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Upon presentation of emigration documents, the parties concerned may, without prior au- thorization, transfer up to CFAF 300,000 a person. Larger amounts may be transferred with MOF authorization. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Authorized intermediaries may borrow freely abroad, but these transactions must be re- ported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Banks and financial institutions are not permitted to hold liquid assets outside the WAEMU zone, except to cover current operations. These transactions may be freely conducted, but are subject to prior MOF and BCEAO authorization in the case of loans, financial credits, and the purchase of securities issued abroad. No explicit regulations exist regarding these transactions, but prior authorization by the MOF is required with the approval of the BCEAO. These purchases require prior MOF approval, Any overdraft or advance granted to a nonresident requires the prior authorization of the MOF with the approval of the BCEAO. All overdrafts and advances require prior MOF authorization with BCEAO approval. Investment regulations The regulations governing foreign investment apply. Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws There are no prudential ratios; open positions result from special dispensations. Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. The Insurance Code in effect in Benin includes rules applicable specifically to the use of the technical reserves of insurance companies. Yes. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bhutan is the Bhutanese ngultrum. The Indian rupee is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The ngultrum is pegged to the Indian rupee at par. The rates for currencies other than the Indian rupee are determined on the basis of the prevailing exchange rates of the Indian rupee (average rate) against the currencies concerned. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Trade transactions between Bhutan and India may be conducted only in ngultrums or Indian rupees. Except for payments for duty-free goods, handicraft items, and purchases of Druk Air (Royal Bhutan Airlines) tickets by foreigners, all other expenses in Bhutan must be paid in local currency. Yes. Bhutan is a member of the ACU. The MOF has delegated to the Royal Monetary Authority (RMA) the authority to release foreign exchange (other than Indian rupees) for current transactions. The RMA is responsi- ble for implementing the surrender requirements for proceeds from merchandise exports and approving the use of foreign exchange for payments for invisible transactions. Payments and remittances by residents to nonresidents other than in cash and traveler's checks must be channeled through authorized banks in Bhutan. Banking institutions have been instructed to freeze all capital transfers and financial assets of individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism, pursuant to the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In addition, financial institutions are required to report to the RMA any financial transactions that link them to terrorist groups. Yes. No. Imports of gold and silver by Bhutanese citizens are permitted up to stipulated quantities. Imports beyond this require special permission from the RMA. 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN 133 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The importation and exportation of cash and securities above a certain limit are subject to declaration of value at the customs point of entry into and departure from Bhutan. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Effective February 4, 2003, exports exceeding Nu 5,000 require permission from the RMA. Effective February 4, 2003, exports of convertible foreign currency legally imported or purchased from authorized banks are allowed freely. Exports of Indian rupees are allowed only to India and Nepal. Effective February 4, 2003, imports exceeding Nu 5,000 require approval by the RMA. Effective February 4, 2003, imports of convertible foreign currencies are freely permitted, but amounts exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 are subject to customs declaration. Imports of Indian rupees are allowed only from India and Nepal. Resident Accounts The following categories of persons are permitted to open and maintain dollar-denominated foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Bhutan: (1) diplomatic missions in Bhutan and their expatriate employees, (2) representative offices of donor agencies and their expatriate employees, (3) third-country contracting firms and their expatriate employ- ees engaged in executing projects financed by donor agencies, and (4) any person who is a national of a third country and resides in Bhutan. The accounts may be opened, but approval of the RMA is required. Residents of Bhutan are not allowed to hold foreign exchange accounts abroad. Bhutanese citizens living abroad must close foreign exchange accounts upon return and repatriate any balances to Bhutan. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit No. No. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 134 BHUTAN Import licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are governed by Rules and Procedures for Imports of Goods from Third Countries issued by the Department of Trade of the Ministry of Trade and Industries. An import license is required for the importation of capital and intermediate goods from coun- tries other than India. Foreign exchange for all payments related to merchandise imports is automatically made available by authorized banks against import licenses. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports from India are free from tariffs and are subject only to the Bhutanese sales tax. Tax rates range from zero for essential goods to 50% on tobacco products and alcoholic beverages. Imports from countries other than India are subject to tariffs. The maximum tariff rate is 30%, with the exception of the rates for beer (50%) and other alcoholic beverages and spirits and tobacco (100%). State import monopoly n.a. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the RMA directly or to authorized banks in Bhutan within 90 days. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Exports to countries other than India receive a rebate at rates ranging from 5% to 20% of the c.i.f. value, with the lowest rate applying to unprocessed primary products and the highest rate applying to processed products. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval All invisible payments, other than those made in Indian rupees, must be approved by the RMA. The RMA is charged with setting limits (indicative in most cases) up to which foreign exchange may be made available for payments for invisible transactions. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN 135 Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Travel allowances are limited to the equivalent of $1,500 for a ticketed passenger each calendar year. In the case of business travel, the foreign exchange cost of an air ticket and country-specific per diem covering accommodation are provided to travelers. There are no time limits for business travel, but two weeks is considered the norm. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Allowances for educational fees and tuitions are provided without limits if they are paid directly to universities or institutions abroad. Students may also purchase foreign exchange for a monthly stipend of $900 and a onetime settling-in allowance of $1,500 or the equiva- lents. The settling-in allowance and three monthly stipends may be purchased in advance. For medical expenses, subject to referral by a local physician for treatment abroad, foreign exchange may be purchased to cover the cost of treatment and medicine and for living ex- penses abroad. Living expenses vary from country to country, but there are no specific limits for other expenses, and all reasonable expenses are allowed. Yes. A citizen of Bhutan, who under the recommendation of a medical specialist travels to a third country for medical treatment, is permitted to purchase foreign exchange from author- ized banks within the limit prescribed by the RMA for the cost of treatment, medicine, and living expenses. Any national of another country who—with the prior approval of the Royal Government of Bhutan —is employed directly by a public or private organization in Bhutan is permitted to remit his or her salary and savings in foreign exchange through an authorized bank. The RMA may set limits on any or all such remittances as it deems necessary. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Foreign exchange proceeds of any receipts or holdings by Bhutanese citizens and compa- nies should be repatriated to Bhutan by transferring such claims and funds to authorized banks in Bhutan. All receipts from invisible transactions in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the RMA or authorized dealers. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments All capital transactions must be approved by the RMA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 136 BHUTAN Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls apply on all derivative transactions. Controls on credit operations Controls apply on all credit operations. Controls on direct investment Controls apply on all direct investment transactions. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Controls apply on all real estate transactions. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Investment up to the equivalent of $5 million (gross) is allowed. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts February 4. Exports of convertible foreign currency legally imported or purchased from authorized banks were allowed freely, although exports of Indian rupees were allowed only to India and Nepal. February 4. Imports and exports of domestic currency exceeding Nu 5,000 required permission from the RMA. February 4. Imports of convertible foreign currencies were permitted freely, but amounts exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 were subject to customs declaration, and imports of Indian rupees were allowed only from India and Nepal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position as of April 30, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 5, 1967. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bolivia is the boliviano. The dollar is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling peg The official selling rate is determined daily by the Central Bank of Bolivia (CBB) at a daily competitive auction ("bolsin"). The Committee for Exchange and Monetary Policy (CEMP) makes recommendations to the president of the CBB on the amount of foreign exchange to be auctioned and a floor price below which the CBB will not accept any bids. This floor price, which is expressed in dollars, is the o f f ic ial exchange rate. The CEMP determines the difference between the selling rate and a buying rate, which is currently Bs 0.02. The private sector may participate in the auctions (with a minimum bid of $100,000 or the equivalent) through financial institutions that have accounts with the CBB. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Payments between Bolivia and the other LAIA countries must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the CBB and the central banks of the countries concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Yes. The CBB is in charge of operating the auction market for foreign exchange. The MOF, together with the CBB, is in charge of approving public sector purchases of foreign ex- change for debt-service payments. No. No. Gold may be traded freely, subject to the following tax scale in accordance with the gross value of the sale of gold bullion: 7% for official quotations larger than $700 a troy ounce; between 4% and 7% for off ic ial quotations between $400 and $700 a troy ounce, calculated as a 0.01 factor multiplied by the off ic ial quotation; and 4% for official quotations of less than $400 a troy ounce. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 138 BOLIVIA Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit LCs have to be opened at a bank in the Bolivian banking system. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Certain imports are controlled for reasons of public health or national security. Import taxes and/or tariffs Bolivia applies an import tariff of 10% on consumer goods. Tariffs of zero and 5% are applied to capital goods in accordance with approved lists. A zero rate is also applied to imports of books and printed materials. Donated food, including wheat, is exempt from the import tariff. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Effective June 30, 2003, preshipment inspection is no longer required. Previously, exports were subject to official review. If necessary, exporters were able to contract with specialized agencies for verification. Export licenses Export taxes No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA 139 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval In accordance with Law 2646, effective April 1, 2004, a temporary tax was imposed on domestic or foreign transfers or remittances of funds through authorized financial institu- tions or money transfer agencies not involving a current or savings account. The tax rate is 0.3% for the first 12 months and 0.25% for the next 12 months. There are no restrictions on payments for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. A 25% income tax is applied to the taxable net profit, which is presumed to be 50% of the amount of profit remitted. Public sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt service must be approved by the MOF and the CBB. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits to government agencies and autonomous entities, and credits to the private sector with official guarantees are subject to prior au- thorization by the national congress, which is conducted by the MOF. All cash proceeds of borrowings from foreign public sector agencies are channeled through the CBB. Yes. No. No. No. No. Financial institutions may make loans in the form of credits denominated in foreign cur- rency for imports of capital goods and inputs for the exporting sector with resources from international financial institutions, foreign government agencies, or external lines of credit. All overseas credits of less than a one-year term are subject to reserve requirements, except for f u l ly matched l iab i l i t ies for foreign trade operations. A reserve requirement of 2% is applied to time deposits in domestic currency with a maturity of up to 60 days and in foreign currency with a maturity of up to 360 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 140 BOLIVIA Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position limits A liquid asset requirement of 10% applies to time deposits in foreign exchange with a ma- turity of up to 720 days. Effective July 8, 2003, the l im it on short foreign exchange positions is 20% of the value of capital and reserves and 100% for losses on the indexed foreign currency and domestic currency portfolio; on January 1, 2004, this was reduced to 90%. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad The maximum l im it that pension fund administrators may invest abroad varies between 10% and 50% of each Individual Capitalization Fund. The specific l im it within this range is decided by the CBB. Effec t ive February 25, 2003, the CBB sets the annual limit —currently 10% —for investments by insurance companies in securities issued abroad. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exports and export proceeds June 30. The preshipment inspection requirement was eliminated. Changes During 2003 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions July 8. The CBB set the l im it on short foreign exchange positions at 20% of the value of capital and reserves and 100% of the provisions balance for losses on the indexed foreign currency and domestic currency portfolio. Provisions specific to institutional investors February 25. The CBB began setting a maximum limit for investments abroad by insurance companies. Changes During 2004 Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers April 1. Law 2646 introduced a temporary tax on financial transactions at the rate of 0.3% and 0.25% for the first and second 12 months, respectively. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. The foreign exchange position l im it on provisions balance for losses on indexed foreign and domestic portfolios was reduced to 90% from 100%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the convertible marka. Euro banknotes and coins also circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement The convertible marka is pegged to the euro at the rate of KM 1 per €0.51129. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Controls apply only to prevent money laundering. Yes. No. No. Yes. In accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolution, restrictions are imposed on certain financial transactions related to listed terrorist groups. No. No. Controls apply on exports and imports of domestic and foreign currency banknotes. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Ind iv idua ls and exporters may hold foreign exchange in accounts with commercial banks and do not need to supply evidence of the source of these funds. Held abroad Yes. 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 142 BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA Approval required Legal entities need approval from the relevant ministry. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Advance payment requirements Imports must arrive within 90 days from the date of the advance payment. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Commercial banks may require documents verifying the purpose of the transaction before effecting payment. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no import quotas for any product. All imports are free from licensing requirements. Negative list There is no official list of prohibited imports, but the Council of Ministers may establish such a list as circumstances require. Other nontariff measures Measures related to security and public health apply. Import taxes and/or tariffs Import tariffs range from zero to 15% with an average unweighted rate of 6%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Yes. No. Exporters must be authorized to engage in foreign trade. Customs requires that exporters provide documents accompanying the goods; in some cases, documents verifying the origin of the goods are also required. Effective January 1, 2003, approval from the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required for exports of military equipment, blood, narcotics and medicines containing narcotics, and other pharmaceutical products. Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses Export taxes Exports are free of restrictions except for certain products, such as weapons, drugs, and art objects, for which permits are required. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 143 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds Following an agreement with Germany, the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina will provide documentation to Germany on pensions from Germany that are being paid by the commercial banks under German jurisdiction to workers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Controls on capital transactions Securities markets participants must be authorized to trade on the organized markets, in accordance with laws on securities transactions. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities No. No. No. By residents to nonresidents Only prudential regulations on banks apply. Controls on direct investment Investments must be registered with the relevant ministry. Inward direct investment According to the Law on the Policy of Foreign Investment, foreign equity ownership may not exceed 49% in an enterprise engaged in the production and sale of arms, ammunition, explosives for military use, military equipment, or public information. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents A reciprocity requirement applies to countries that were previously part of the former Republic of Yugoslavia. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 144 BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions The Foreign Exchange Entity Law and the Banking Law regulate these transactions. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Securities of a particular company may not comprise more than 10% of total assets of the Investment Fund. Other controls imposed by securities laws There are legal controls on stocks, shares, and securities. Changes During 2003 Exports and export proceeds January 1. Approval from the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required for exports of military equipment, blood, narcotics and medicines containing narcotics, and other pharmaceutical products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position as of February 29, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 17, 1995. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana pula. Some external loans undertaken by parastatals before October 1, 1990, are protected from exchange rate movements under a Foreign Exchange Risk-Sharing Scheme (FERSS). Under the scheme, risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations up to 4% are borne fu l ly by the borrower, while the next 6% and the following 5% of fluctuations are shared between the borrower and the government in ratios of 50:50 and 25:75, respectively. Risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations in excess of 15% are borne fu l ly by the government. The scheme is symmetrical in that the borrower and the government share any gains from an appreciation in the external value of the pula on the same basis. Under the FERSS, borrowers obtain foreign exchange for servicing their external debt at exchange rates that may d i f fer from the market rate by more than 2%. No new loans will be issued under this scheme, and the scheme is to be phased out by 2006, once the existing loans are fully repaid by 2006. The exchange rate of the pula is determined with reference to a weighted basket of currencies comprising the SDR (approximately 30%) and the South African rand (approximately 70%). On February 6, 2004, the Bank of Botswana (BOB) devalued the pula by 7.5% against this basket. The central bank deals in the following currencies: the dollar, the South Afr ican rand, the euro, the pound sterling, and the yen. Foreign exchange bureaus are licensed to deal in foreign currencies on a spot basis only. No. No. Forward exchange cover is offered by the commercial banks, and the maturity dates of forward exchange contracts/transactions are not restricted. Off ic ial cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Residents are permitted to make payments for goods and services from outside sources using pula-denominated checks, provided that traders outside Botswana are willing to ac- cept their collection by banks outside Botswana. Such transactions are subject to supporting documentation for checks in amounts exceeding P 10,000. Botswana has bilateral trade agreements with the People's Republic of China, the Czech Republic, the Republic of Korea, Malawi, Romania, Russia, Serbia and Montenegro, the Slovak Repub l ic, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Yes. Yes. Botswana is a member of the SACU, which allows for free import movements and, hence, has no restrictions on trade-related payments to or from SACU countries. 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 146 BOTSWANA Administration of control For practical/operational purposes, several administrative powers of the BOB have been delegated to commercial banks. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency No. No. There are no restrictions on trading or owning precious metals in commercial forms, such as coins, but there are restrictions on possession of unwrought precious metals, such as bullion. A declaration is required for amounts equal to or in excess of P 10,000 at the time of travel. Visitors may take out any foreign currency that they legitimately own, subject to completion of a declaration for any amount equal to or greater than the equivalent of P 10,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Commercial banks are authorized to open foreign currency accounts for permanent and temporary residents and for nonresidents. These accounts facilitate foreign receipts and payments for approved transactions, without requiring conversion of foreign currency re- ceipts into pula and vice versa and offer protection against fluctuations in exchange rates. Commercial banks are authorized to open foreign currency accounts for their customers for any amount in any currency at the banks' discretion. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are regulated by customs and excise legislation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA 147 Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs As a member of the SACU, Botswana applies a GET only on imports from outside the SACU. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements The maximum limits for exports free of payments are (1) for bona fide nonmonetary gifts, P 20,000 a year for a permanent resident; (2) for rejected goods, P 100,000 a transaction, subject to provision of documentary evidence; and (3) for commercial samples (i.e., goods for exhibitions or other promotional purposes), P 150,000 a transaction. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.r. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue purposes. The exportation of a few items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, requires a permit. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Investment-related payments Authorized dealers may allow remittances of interim dividends without reference to the BOB for companies listed on the Botswana Stock Exchange (BSE) and may approve other remittances of dividends/profits without reference to the BOB, subject to satisfactory supporting documentation in relation to tax withholding. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents No controls are placed on the participation of nonresidents in debt instruments issued in the domestic market, except that nonresidents are not permitted to purchase central bank b i l ls (BOB certificates), or any money market instrument, the purpose of which is to mop up excess liquidity in the system. On January 1, 2003, the government began issuing bonds with maturities of 2, 5, and 12 years; nonresidents may purchase up to 20% of the total value of these bonds. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Nonresidents are permitted to issue long-term pula-denominated bonds traded on the BSE, subject to the listing requirements of the exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 148 BOTSWANA On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Nonresidents are not permitted to purchase the monetary instruments used by the BOB to absorb excess liquidity. Dealing in these instruments is subject to prudential foreign exposure limits. No. No. No. n.r. No. A commercial bank's loans to nonresidents are restricted to 25% of the unimpaired capital for each nonresident customer, and, in aggregate, loans to nonresidents may not exceed 800% of a bank's unimpaired capital. These transactions are subject to the listing requirements of the BSE. Prudential limits are set for exposure per currency and for the overall foreign currency risk exposure. For major dealing currencies, the limit is 15% of a bank's unimpaired capital and for others it is 5%. The limit for the overall foreign exchange exposure is 30% of the unimpaired capital of a bank, using the shorthand method. Institutional investors, such as pension funds and life insurance companies, may invest not more than 70% of their assets outside Botswana. This control is imposed by the Registrars of Insurance and Pension and Provident Funds. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. Changes During 2003 Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments January 1. The government began issuing bonds with maturities of 2, 5, and 12 years; and nonresidents were allowed to purchase up to 20% of the total value of these bonds. Exchange arrangement February 6. The BOB devalued the pula by 7.5% against the basket of currencies to which it is pegged. Changes During 2004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position as of December 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 30, 1999. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Brazil is the Brazilian real. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax The exchange rate of the real is determined by supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. Transactions in the exchange markets are carried out by banks, brokers, tourist agencies, and providers of accommodation for tourists that are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Brokers and tourist agencies deal only in banknotes, bank drafts, and traveler's checks. Providers of accommodation for tourists may only buy banknotes, bank drafts, and traveler's checks. A 5% tax is applied to inflows related to external loans with a minimum coverage maturity of up to 90 days. A 2% tax is applied to remittances related to obligations of credit card administration companies to pay for purchases by their clients. The tax is zero for other foreign exchange transactions. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Banks are permitted to trade foreign exchange on a forward basis within the statutory limits (bought, sold) of the exchange position; such transactions must be settled within 360 days. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Prescription of currency is required only in foreign exchange transactions related to the LAIA covenant. These transactions must be made in U.S. dollars. Use of foreign exchange among residents The use of foreign exchange for pricing or settlement of transactions among residents is prohibited. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control All interbank transactions and clearinghouse operations must be effected through the Central Bank of Brazil's (CBB) real-time gross-settlement payments system, using reserve accounts held at the CBB. Brazil is a member of the LAIA. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela may be made through special central bank accounts within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. The National Monetary Council (NMC) is responsible for formulating the overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the NMC, exchange control regulations affecting foreign capital and the management of international reserves are under the jurisdiction of the CBB. The Ministry of Planning, Budget, and Management (MPOG) enforces limits on foreign borrowing by the public sector. Foreign trade policy is formulated by the Foreign Trade Chamber, which consists of the minister of development, industry, and foreign trade (head); the minister of the civil house; the minister of finance; the minister of budget and planning; the minister of foreign relations; and the minister of agriculture and supply. Foreign trade policy is implemented by the Secretariat of Foreign Trade (SECEX) and carried out by the Department of Foreign Trade Operations (DECEX). The Department of International Negotiations (DEINT) or the SECEX is responsible for formulating guidelines for tariff policy. The DEINT also decides on changes in customs 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 150 BRAZIL duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The MPOG coordinates public sector import policy. International security restrictions Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions are maintained on transactions with the Taliban. Effective September 7, 2003, restrictions on transactions with Iraq were lifted. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) There are two separate markets for gold transactions: the financial and commercial markets. Transactions that occur in the financial market are regulated by the CBB. The first domestic transaction of newly mined gold on this market is subject to a financial transactions tax of at least 1%. Rules regarding gold transactions for industrial purposes are defined separately by the federal states, which also establish different rates for the commercial tax levied thereon. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade The CBB and authorized institutions may buy and sell gold for monetary use on the inter- national market. Imports and exports of gold for nonmonetary use are subject to the same procedures as those that are applied through the SECEX with respect to other products. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Travelers may take out or bring in domestic or foreign banknotes, checks, or traveler's checks without restriction but must declare to customs any amount over R$ 10,000 or its equivalent. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be held by authorized foreign exchange dealers, tourist agencies not authorized to deal in foreign exchange, Brazilian citizens living abroad, the Brazilian Post Office Administration, credit card administration companies, companies responsible for the development and execution of projects in the energy sector, and insurance and reinsurance companies and reinsurance brokers. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. These accounts are not regulated. These accounts are not regulated. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be held by embassies, foreign delegations, international organizations, foreign transportation companies, foreign citizens in transit in the country, Brazilian citizens living abroad, and reinsurance companies. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Natural and juridical persons (financial and nonfmancial institutions) may hold these ac- counts. Only resources deposited in nonresident banks or resources that have entered Brazil through foreign currency sales and have not been withdrawn may be repatriated to foreign countries. These resources continue to be available to nonresidents once they are with- drawn, but only in the national currency. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 151 Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list External financing of imports for periods in excess of 360 days must be registered in the Financial Operations Registry, an electronic system. Financing is considered approved by the CBB if the registration is not refused by its Department of Foreign Capital and Ex- change within five days. The time to finalize anticipatory settlements for critical imports is 30 days. Effective December 4, 2003, the advance deposit requirements for imports conducted through the LAIA covenant were lifted. Previously, all such imports, except for imports up to the equivalent of US$100,000 from MERCOSUR countries, Bolivia, and Chile, and imports up to US$200,000 from Argentina, required advance deposits. All importers must be registered in the SECEX Importer and Exporter Register. Goods may be imported by firms and persons and must be registered with the CBB, except for imports by the public sector (federal, state, and municipal); imports by PETROBRAS (the Brazilian government oil enterprise) and contracting or subcontracting firms engaged in oil explora- tion through risk contracts; imports of medicine by individuals up to the equivalent of US$5,000; imports of samples without commercial value, except for pharmaceutical prod- ucts up to the equivalent of US$1,000; imports of products, except for those prohibited or under special control, by individuals for personal consumption; and imports of goods con- sidered as passengers' baggage for personal use. The import subsystem of the Integrated Foreign Trade System (SISCOMEX/IMPORT) allows importers, carriers, banks, and bro- kers to register the various stages of an import process directly through the interlinked computers of the SECEX, customs, and the CBB. Imports are grouped into the following three broad categories: (1) imports that do not require prior administrative documentation, including samples without commercial value and certain educational materials; (2) imports that require prior import licenses issued by the SISCOMEX/IMPORT; and (3) prohibited imports. Importers are permitted to purchase foreign exchange in the exchange market within 360 days of the settlement date. There is also a limit on the direct importation and purchase on the domestic market of consumer goods by the public sector (the government, autonomous agencies, and public enterprises). These are required for imports originating or proceeding from countries under restrictions determined by the UN Security Council and imports of bo vines in any form originating or proceeding from the United Kingdom. Drafts or LCs must be settled on maturity against the presentation of the appropriate docu- ments by the importer. Exchange contracts for imports financed under LCs must be closed on the date of settlement or two working days before the maturity date of the LCs. Federal ministries and subordinate agencies and public enterprises are required to submit for approval by the MPOG an annual investment program specifying their expected import requirements. There is a simplified arrangement for foreign exchange transactions related to imports of small amounts. Some imports require prior approval (i.e., an import license) from the DECEX. This ap- proval is usually given promptly to registered importers of nonprohibited items. As a rule, licenses are valid for 60 days, except for imports of custom-made capital goods. The Secre- tariat of Federal Revenue issues clearance certificates for certain groups of commodities to special bonded warehouse importers. Import licenses for a number of specified imports may be obtained after the commodities have been landed and customs clearance obtained. The importation of certain products requires approval of the Ministry of Science and Tech- nology. For some products, eligibility for exemption from import duties may be precluded by the existence of a satisfactory domestic equivalent. Most imports are exempt from prior approval requirements. All trade between MERCOSUR partners is liberalized, with the exception of trade in automobiles and sugar. Imports of agrochemical products not authorized under Brazilian regulations; weapons; and certain drugs that are not licensed for reasons of security, health, morality, or industrial policy are prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 152 Open general licenses Licenses with quotas BRAZIL OGLs are no longer issued by the SECEX. Issuance is restricted to their annexes, up to the existing remainder of issued OGLs. In addition to imports under Brazilian concessions covered by the LAIA agreement, goods imported into the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones are subject to an annual quota. Foreign goods up to the equivalent of US$2,000 imported into the Manaus free trade zone may be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. In ac- cordance with WTO rules, quotas are imposed on imports of textiles from China, Hong Kong SAR, Korea, Panama, and Taiwan Province of China due to their effect on the do- mestic industry. The tariff rate on imports of toys is 25% plus a possible safeguard exten- sion of 15%. For vehicles carrying more than nine persons, the tariff is 65%. For automo- biles, transport vehicles, motorcycles, and bicycles, tariffs are 35%, but assemblers established in Brazil may be favored with a special tariff of 17.5%. Other nontariff measures Sanitation and measurement requirements must be observed. Import taxes and/or tariffs The MERCOSUR customs un ion agreement stipulates a CET ranging from zero to 20% on about 85% of traded goods, and the remaining 15% of goods (including a list of national exceptions, capital goods, and computer goods) are subject to a schedule of adjustments designed to bring them in line with the CET within five or six years. Taxes collected through the exchange system Foreign exchange transactions related to imports of goods are exempt from the tax on fi- nancial operations, and foreign exchange transactions related to imports of services have a tariff of zero. State import monopoly Imports of petroleum and derivatives are conducted by the state. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered before 180 days from the shipment date or 20 days after receipt of proceeds, whichever comes first. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Inspection is required for commodities subject to standardization. Other Export licenses With quotas Documentation includes invoices, international shipment notification, and export registra- tion. There is a s imp l if ied arrangement for foreign exchange transactions related to exports up to the equivalent of US$10,000. Exports of wild animals and their hides, hair, feathers, or eggs in any form; jacaranda-da- Bahia wood; ipecacuanha plants; amber and white varieties of honey; and antiques older than 100 years are prohibited. Exports of certain goods require prior approval of the SECEX, including those effected through bilateral accounts, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, reexports, commodities for which m in imum export prices are fixed by the SECEX, and exports requiring prior authorization from government agencies. The SISCOMEX integrates the activities related to the registration, monitoring, and control of foreign trade operations into a single computerized flow of information. The SISCOMEX comprises two subsystems (exports and imports). The exports subsystem allows exporters, carriers, banks, and brokers to register the various stages of an export process directly through the interlinked computers of the SECEX, customs, and the CBB. Exports of sawed or cut pine woods, mahogany, Brazilian walnut, and virola are subject to quotas. For exports of ethyl alcohol and sugar in any form, including sugarcane syrup un- suitable for human consumption, the eligibility for exemption from the export tax of 40% is subject to quotas on the basis of an annual quantity exceeding domestic necessity author- ized by the Industry, Trade, and Tourism Minister and the MOF. An annual quota is in place for imports under Brazilian concessions, subject to quotas due to agreements with the LAIA member countries and for goods imported into the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones. Foreign goods up to the equivalent of US$2,000 imported into the Manaus free trade zone may be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 153 Export taxes Exports are free from these taxes or are subject to a duty of zero, with the exception of exports of (1) raw hides, which are subject to an export duty of 9%; (2) cigarettes to Latin America, which are subject to an export duty of 150%; and (3) weapons and ammunition to Central America, South America, and the Caribbean, which are taxed at a rate of 150%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Trade-related payments For unloading and storage costs there are established rules and surveillance procedures related to operations freely conducted in the commercial market. Regulations on insurance and reinsurance transactions in foreign currency are set by the National Council on Private Insurance. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold to authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Nonresident capital transactions must be registered electronically at the CBB. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Restrictions apply to participation in certain economic activities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale of shares of foreign enterprises in Brazil is regulated essentially for the MERCOSUR environment through share custody certificates or directly. The only way to sell other foreign securities in Brazil is through Brazilian Depositary Receipts (BDRs), which allow the placement of certificates representing these shares in the Brazilian market. Purchase abroad by residents Residents are allowed to purchase bonds or other debt securities and money market securi- ties through dedicated offshore investment funds (FIEX). Residents may invest only on stock exchanges in MERCOSUR countries. Outside MERCOSUR, Brazilians are allowed to purchase depositary receipts issued abroad by companies headquartered in Brazil. Regulations permit employees of firms belonging to foreign economic groups to purchase shares of the main company up to the equivalent of US$20,000 for each employee, for a period of not less than 12 months. Sale or issue abroad by residents Corporations may issue BDRs abroad. In the MERCOSUR environment, Brazilian enterprises may operate through share custody certificates or directly. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may offer these instruments only through private placements. Purchase abroad by residents Residents may purchase bonds or other debt securities through FIEX. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Foreign investors have access to derivative markets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 154 BRAZIL Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Nonresident financial institutions are allowed to issue swaps in the domestic market, sub- ject to constituting the regulatory capital charge against the counterparty credit risk of such operations if they are not guaranteed by a clearinghouse. Private sector entities may engage in hedging operations with financial institutions or stock exchanges abroad to protect themselves against the risk of variations in interest rates, exchange rates, and commodity prices. Payments and receipts in foreign currency scheduled or expected to occur in the future in connection with commercial or financial rights or obligations may also be protected by hedging. Guarantees by nonfinancial juridical persons in credit operations for their foreign subsidiaries are subject to prior authorization by the CBB. Brazilian nonf inanc ial enterprises may transfer up to the equivalent of US$5 million, inc lud ing all remittances in the previous 12 months. Transfers exceeding the established limit must first be submitted to the CBB before the exchange contract. Exchange operations in which the purchaser of the foreign exchange is an entity belonging to the direct or indirect public administration are subject to prior authorization by the CBB. Investments abroad by institutions authorized to operate by the CBB must obtain the prior approval of the CBB's Department of Financial System Organization and satisfy several conditions, especially with respect to paid-up capital, net assets, time in operation, fixed-asset ratio, and borrowing ceilings. Inward direct investment There are legal restrictions on participation in certain economic activities. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. Controls on personal capital transactions Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Gifts and endowments require the approval of the CBB. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits All contracts, securities, or other documents, as well as any obligations executable in Brazil that require payment in foreign currency, are null and void. Consequently, banks are pro- hibited from granting foreign currency loans within Brazil. However, this regulation does not apply to the onlending of external foreign currency loans. Domestic operations in foreign currencies are prohibited. Yes. Yes. Banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations may hold long positions of up to the equivalent of US$6 million, including all currencies and all of each bank's branches. Amounts exceeding this ceiling have to be deposited with the CBB in dollars. The ceiling on banks' short exchange position is unlimited, provided that the total amount of combined exposure in gold, assets, and liabilities in foreign exchange does not exceed 30% of each bank's base capital. Banks must increase capital by their open positions over 5% of capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad BRAZIL 155 For licensed dealers (brokerage firms; securities distributors; and credit, financing, and investment enterprises), the ceiling on the long exchange position is the equivalent of US$500,000, and no short exchange position is allowed. Institutional investors may invest up to 10% of their technical reserves in investment fund shares abroad. Private social security agencies may also invest up to 50% of their reserves, together with other investments up to the same ceiling, in shares of open companies, pub- licly issued convertible debentures, bonds for subscriptions to shares issued by open com- panies, and certificates of deposit for shares issued by companies headquartered in MERCOSUR countries. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments Changes During 2003 September 7. Restrictions on transactions with Iraq were lifted. December 4. Advance import deposit requirements for imports conducted through the LAIA covenant were lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 10, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Brunei Darussalam is the Brunei dollar. The Singapore dollar also circulates. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control The Brunei dollar is issued by the Brunei Currency Board (BCB) only against payments in Singapore dollars and at par. Under the terms of a 1967 Currency Interchangeability Agreement (CIA) between the BCB and the Board of Commissioners of Currency of Singapore (BCCS), the Singapore dollar is customary tender in Brunei Darussalam and the Brunei dollar in Singapore. The BCB and BCCS have accepted each other's currency and have agreed to mutual exchange at par and without charge. They have instructed their banks to do the same with their customers. Any excess Brunei or Singapore currency is repatriated regularly, with the issuing institution bearing the costs, and settlements are made in the other country's currency. The BCB deals only in Singapore dollars and does not quote rates for other currencies. Banks, however, are free to deal in all currencies, with no restrictions on amount, maturity, or type of transaction. The Brunei Association of Banks fixes daily buying and selling rates for electronic trans- fers and sight drafts in 17 other currencies on the basis of the interbank quotations for these currencies in relation to the Singapore dollar. Banks in Brunei Darussalam must apply these rates for transactions with the general public for amounts up to B$ 100,000. Exchange rates for amounts exceeding B$ 100,000 are set competitively by each bank on the basis of the current interbank quotations for the Singapore dollar on the Singapore market. No. No. There is no forward market for foreign exchange in Brunei Darussalam. However, as a result of the CIA, foreign exchange risk may be hedged in terms of Singapore dollars by resorting to fac i l i t ies available in that country, including foreign currency futures and op- tions traded on the Singapore International Monetary Exchange, over-the-counter forward transactions arranged by banks in Singapore, and the short-term foreign exchange swap market operated among the banks in the Singapore money market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Brunei Darussalam is a member of the ASEAN. There are no formal exchange controls, but the MOF retains responsibility for exchange control matters. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 156 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM 157 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Only banks licensed to operate in Brunei Darussalam, and gold dealers and jewelers spe- cifically authorized by the MOF, may buy and sell gold bars. Gold bars are not subject to import duty, but a 5% duty is levied on the importation of gold jewelry. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts There is no distinction between accounts of residents and nonresidents of Brunei Darussalam. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A few imports are banned or restricted for environmental, health, safety, security, or reli- gious reasons. Alcoholic beverages may be imported only by nonresident non-Muslims. Some 70% of items ( inc lud ing basic foodstuffs, construction materials, and educational materials) are exempt from customs duties. Most other goods are subject to tariff rates of 5%, 15%, or 20%. The maximum tariff is 200%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 158 BRUNEI DARUSSALAM Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, diesel, gasoline, kerosene, rice, salt, and sugar. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments There are indicative limits/bona fide tests for all payments for invisible transactions and current transfers. Indicative Urnits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments are subject to a 20% withholding tax. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans and depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. There are no sectoral controls, but activities relating to national food security and those based on local resources require some degree of local participation. Industries producing for the local market that are not related to national food security and industries that solely ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRUNEI DARUSSALAM 159 export may be fu l ly foreign owned. Joint ventures are particularly encouraged in export- import industries and activities supporting such industries. At least one-half of the directors of a company must be either Brunei citizens or residents of Brunei Darussalam. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Only Brunei citizens are allowed to own land. However, foreign investors may lease land on a long-term basis, including sites destined for industry, agriculture, agroforestry, and aquaculture. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 24, 1998. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Bulgaria is the Bulgarian lev. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Currency board arrangement An amendment to the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) effectively established a currency board arrangement. The deutsche mark was chosen as the peg currency, which has since been replaced with the euro at the rate of lev 1.95583 per €1. The BNB is required to buy and sell euros on demand against leva on the basis of spot exchange rates that may not d i f fer from the off ic ial exchange rate by more than 0.5%, inclusive of any fees, commis- sions, and other charges to the customer. Effective August 22, 2003, cash transactions in- volving an exchange rate that differs from the official rate by more than 10% require a written contract. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Yes. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Credit operations Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Balances remain on clearing accounts maintained under former bilateral arrangements. These arrangements are now inoperative, and the only transactions that take place on clear- ing accounts are those that are intended to settle the balances. Valuation and settlement of the balances take place in convertible currencies. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are arrangements with Albania, Cambodia, Guinea, the People's Democratic Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and the Syrian Arab Republic. Bulgaria has outstanding transferable ruble accounts with Cuba and Mongolia. Regional arrangements Bulgaria is a member of the CEFTA. Barter agreements and open accounts There are inactive agreements with the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Guyana, Mozambique, and Tanzania. Administration of control Foreign exchange control is exercised by the MOF, the BNB, the customs administration, and the postal authorities. 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 161 International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. Payments arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Four commercial banks that are in bankruptcy have outstanding debt-service arrears. Residents carrying out extracting, processing, or other transactions involving precious met- als and stones as their business activity are obliged to register with the MOF within 14 days of starting their activity. These activities are included in the banking licenses of commercial banks. Residents carrying out external trade transactions with precious metals and stones are obliged to register with the MOF within 14 days of starting their activity. Natural persons may freely export and import precious metals and stones for personal use after declaring them to the customs authorities. All amounts exceeding personal use are subject to the trade provisions of the Customs Law. The export and import of precious metals and stones by mail are prohibited. This prohibition does not apply to the BNB and commercial banks. Residents and nonresidents may export domestic or foreign currencies without a declaration if the amount is less than lev 5,000 or the equivalent. Exports of amounts between lev 5,001 and lev 20,000 or the equivalent must be declared; for amounts exceeding this limit the origin of funds must also be declared. In the case of exports exceeding lev 20,000 or the equivalent, residents and nonresidents must obtain a certificate from the tax authorities that they do not have any tax arrears, but nonresidents may export the currency after declaration without certificates for the origin of funds and the tax authorities' certificate if the amount does not exceed the imported and declared sums. Yes. Yes. Resident and nonresident natural persons may import unlimited amounts of domestic and foreign currency; amounts exceeding lev 5,000 or its equivalent must be declared to customs. Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Balances on these accounts earn interest at international market rates. The crediting and debiting of up to the equivalent of lev 5,000 in foreign currency accounts are not subject to regulations. On August 8, 2003, this level was increased to lev 10,000. Transfers abroad may be made only by commercial banks after declaring, for statistical purposes, the reason for the transfer. For payments abroad, the declaration must be submitted on the same day; for receipts, within 10 days after the date of the bank statement. On July 7, 2003, this pe- riod was increased to 30 days. In cases where amounts exceed the equivalent of lev 20,000, the transferrer must submit documentation as prescribed in BNB regulations. On August 8, 2003, this was increased to lev 25,000. If the transfer is related to transactions for which BNB registration is needed, the commercial bank will verify the declaration with the BNB. Held abroad Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 162 Approval required BULGARIA Approval is not required, but a declaration must be submitted to the BNB within 15 days after a payment is made. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Approval is not required to maintain these accounts, but a declaration must be submitted to the BNB within 15 days after a payment is made. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. Imports of certain goods—such as dangerous substances with ozone-depleting potential; machinery and equipment for air conditioning using Freon 12; or refrigerators, freezers, and other equipment using Freon 11 or 12—are banned for health and security reasons. A registration regime applies to natural gas and scrap, in addition to goods previously cov- ered under nonautomatic licensing, such as narcotics, arms, and nuclear weapons. Licenses are required for imports of military hardware and related technologies, natural gas, endan- gered flora and fauna, radioactive and nuclear materials, pharmaceuticals, herbicides, pesti- cides, unbottled alcohol, jewelry, rare and precious metals, asbestos, asbestos products, narcotic and psychotropic products, and gambling equipment. There are free trade agreements with Turkey and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. There are 22 tariff bands; import tariffs range from zero to 74% and are calculated on a transaction-value basis in foreign currency and converted to leva. The maximum rate of import tariffs for nonagricultural goods is 27%, and for agricultural goods, 74%. The arithmetic mean tariff for all products is 11.6%. The simple unweighted average level of Bulgaria's MFN tariffs is 11.10%. The average tariff for industrial goods is 8.62%, and for agricultural products, 21.69%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports must be repatriated.. Surrender requirements Proceeds do not have to be surrendered; they may be retained in foreign currencies or sold in the interbank exchange market. Financing requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements Letters of credit Other Export licenses BULGARIA 163 Yes. Exports of gold, silver, platinum, and articles thereof; solutions containing precious metals; electronic scrap and other products containing precious metals; precious stones; and some varieties of wood must be registered with the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. Special licenses are required for the settlement of outstanding balances of multilateral clearing arrangements. Export licenses are required for exports of military hardware and related technologies, endangered flora and fauna, wild plants and animals, livestock, radio- active materials, crafts and antiques, seeds, untreated wood, jewelry, and rare and precious metals. Licenses are normally granted within two working days. There are free trade agreements with Turkey and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Yes. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments abroad for trade purposes that exceed lev 20,000 are processed by banks against the documents required in Regulation No. 28 of the BNB. On August 8, 2003, this limit was increased to lev 25,000. Payments abroad for investment purposes that exceed lev 20,000 are processed by banks against the documents required in Regulation No. 28 of the BNB. On August 8, 2003, this limit was increased to lev 25,000. These remittances are not restricted if the amount is less than lev 20,000. (On August 8, 2003, this limit was increased to lev 25,000.) Above this limit, documentary evidence is required. Foreign workers' wages may be transferred abroad, provided applicable taxes have been paid. These payments are not restricted if the amount is less than lev 20,000. (On August 8, 2003, this limit was increased to lev 25,000.) Above that limit, documentary evidence is required. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions Effective July 7, 2003, the registration requirement for capital transactions no longer ap- plies. Previously, for statistical purposes, registries were kept for transactions and payments between residents and nonresidents and for cross-border transfers and payments by com- mercial banks, the BNB, ministries and state agencies, the central depository, investment intermediaries, insurance and pension funds, and notaries exceeding the amount determined by BNB regulations, but not less than lev 5,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 164 BULGARIA Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities No. No. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment A declaration to the BNB is required within 15 days of concluding a direct investment abroad. Direct investment abroad occurs when a resident (1) acquires equity participation in a nonresident juridical entity and is eligible to exercise more than 10% (prior to July 7, 2003, 20%) of the voting power at a shareholder meeting, (2) extends a loan for the above- mentioned purpose, (3) makes additional investments to an existing direct investment, or (4) acquires real estate for business purposes. Registration is not required for investments in amounts up to the equivalent of lev 20,000 (on July 7, 2003, this limit was increased to lev 25,000); however, for purposes of balance of payments statistics such transactions must be declared to the BNB within 15 days of their conclusion. For investments exceeding this limit, the appropriate documents must be submitted to a domestic bank. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions For purchases exceeding lev 5,000, the appropriate documents must be submitted to a domestic bank. Purchase locally by nonresidents Prior permission of the MOF is required. Nonresidents may not purchase or own land. If they inher it land, they must dispose of it within a three-year period. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Open foreign exchange position limits Prior registration with the BNB is required if the bank is licensed to carry out only domestic transactions. Prior registration with the BNB is required if the bank is licensed to carry out only domestic transactions. Each bank must maintain daily (1) a maximum ratio of up to 15% between its open position in any particular currency and the amount of its own funds, excluding the euro and the currencies of the EMU countries; and (2) a maximum ratio of up to 30% between its net open foreign currency position and the amount of its own funds, excluding the euro and the currencies of the EMU countries. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Yes. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BULGARIA 165 Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement August 22. New regulations applicable to foreign exchange bureaus required a written con- tract for cash transactions involving an exchange rate that differs from the official rate by more than 10%. Resident accounts July 7. Receipts into foreign exchange accounts must be declared within 30 days (previously, 10 days). August 8. The limit on crediting and debiting domestic foreign exchange accounts without restriction was increased to the equivalent of lev 10,000 from lev 5,000, and the limit at which documentation is required was increased to lev 25,000 from lev 20,000. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers August 8. The indicative limit on trade-related payments, investment-related payments, personal payments, and other payments was increased to lev 25,000 from lev 20,000. Capital transactions Controls on capital transactions July 7. The registration requirement for capital transactions was lifted. Controls on direct investment July 7. The limit on shareholder voting power in a nonresident juridical entity at which direct investment abroad occurs was reduced to 10% from 20%. July 7. The limit at which direct investments abroad are subject to registration requirements was increased to the equivalent of lev 25,000 from lev 20,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Burkina Faso is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market vis-a-vis the euro. A symmetrical bank commission of 0.25% applies to transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU; this must be surrendered in its entirety to the treasury. In addition, banks are allowed to charge an exchange commission of up to 2% on over-the-counter exchange for euros. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to effect payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Burkina Faso is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account; therefore, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Certain settlements are channeled through special ac- counts. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in euros. Use of foreign exchange among residents Residents must surrender all foreign exchange earned abroad or domestically to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days of receipt. Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Yes. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A multilateral clearing agreement exists between the WAEMU members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jointly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Most of the author- ity to supervise foreign exchange transactions is delegated to authorized banks, which are required to report these operations to the MOF. The only operations that require prior ap- proval from the MOF or the BCEAO involve residents' investments abroad, domestic ac- counts in foreign exchange, and resident accounts abroad. The BCEAO is also authorized to collect —either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the postal administration, or jud ic ial agents—any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 167 International security restrictions No. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to the equivalent of CFAF 300,000. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Restructuring of arrears to Libya is in progress. Arrears owed to FSU countries were restructured in 1999. Imports of gold require prior MOF authorization. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports by or on behalf of the treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports of manufactured articles containing minor quantities of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both li- censed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Exports of gold have been liberalized. The exportation of CFA franc banknotes by nonresident travelers is not prohibited. How- ever, repurchases by the BCEAO of exported banknotes are still suspended. In addition, shipments of BCEAO banknotes among authorized intermediaries and their correspondents situated outside the WAEMU are o f f ic ia l ly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposit accounts in local banks. There are no restrictions on the importation by resident or nonresident travelers of bank- notes and coins issued by the BCEAO. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (ex- cept gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Nonresident travelers must declare to customs foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 1 million upon entry and exit. Resident Accounts Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or with banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MOF, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. These accounts may be held domestically, but prior approval is required. Resident travelers may open bank accounts abroad to deposit foreign exchange or income acquired dur ing their stay abroad. However, funds held in these accounts must be repatriated w i th in 30 days of a traveler's return. The opening of accounts abroad by residents is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 168 BURKINA FASO Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Yes. Yes. Nonresidents are free to debit accounts denominated in CFA francs for the purchase of foreign currency in the o f f ic ial market. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs All import transactions from outside of the CFA franc zone exceeding CFAF 5 million must be effected through an authorized bank. All imports valued at CFAF 3 million or more are subject to inspection for verification of quality and value. Import licenses were eliminated and replaced with preimport declarations issued for all import operations valued at CFAF 500,000 and above. Imports of asbestos, fireworks, or explosive toys for entertainment purposes, fishing nets with a mesh smaller than 3 cm2, and ivory are restricted. A technical import visa (certificat de conformite) is required for the following products: reinforcing steel; sheet metal; adhesives for cold vulcanization (dissolution); carbide; electrical batteries; polyethylene and polypropylene bags for packing; mopeds; motorcycles having an engine capacity of less than 125 cm2; tires and inner tubes for cycles; aerosol insecticides; coils for mosquitoes; pesticides; bleach; cosmetic products and perfume; gas cylinders; pharmaceutical alcohol; butter and margarine; cooking salt; edible vegetable oils; food pastes; granulated sugar or sugar cubes; mayonnaise; mustard; seasoning cubes and flavoring; vinegar; wheat and cereal flour; yeast and additives for bread making; canned food; cookies; rice; beer; liquor; milk; tea and coffee; sodas; wine; and cigarettes and tobacco of any kind. The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). Imports are also subject to a statistical fee of 1% and a community solidarity levy of 1%. The WAEMU commission has authorized a temporary protection tax of 5% to be levied on certain products from January 2004 to December 2005. All imports from outside the ECOWAS are subject to a community levy of 0.5%. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 169 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries are excluded from the repatriation requirement. Export proceeds must be surrendered within one month of the date on which payments fa ll due. The authorized intermediary banks must then surrender such foreign exchange to the BCEAO via transfer through the bank of issue. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes All export transactions of more than CFAF 5 m i l l ion, except those between WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. Exports of gold, diamonds, and all other precious metals are subject to MOF authorization. Exports of ivory are subject to special authorization by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6% and a statistical duty of 3%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Transfers not exceeding CFAF 300,000 do not require supporting documents. Residents are required to transfer through a licensed intermediary. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for the depreciation of direct investments require the approval of the MOF, since depreciation is not spec if ica l ly mentioned in the regulations. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are no indicative l im i ts or bona f ide tests for the transfer of profits and dividends. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Allowance exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 2 m i l l ion in foreign banknotes must be in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. To obtain foreign exchange, resident travelers must present a ticket and current passport or identity card to the authorized intermediary (authorized intermediary bank or exchange house). Payments for medical costs and studies abroad are granted upon submission of supporting documentation to authorized banks. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions with non-WAEMU member countries must be repatriated. All proceeds from invisible transactions with non-WAEMU member countries must be surrendered to an authorized dealer within one month of the due date. Resident travelers ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 170 BURKINA FASO must declare to customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 300,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an authorized bank within eight days of their return. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions All investments abroad by residents require prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of the financing of such investments must originate from borrowing abroad. Authorization is not required to buy securities issued in WAEMU member states under RCPSFM authorization. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require the prior authorization of the RCPSFM. The issuance and sale of securities in Burkina Faso must be declared to the MOF for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of foreign securities by residents and the transfer abroad of funds for this purpose are subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Controls apply on all these transactions except for purchase locally by nonresidents. On money market instruments The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. These instruments, which are virtually nonexistent in Burkina Faso, are governed by the regulations generally applicable to securities and investments. Residents are free to purchase commodity and security call and put options abroad. There are no controls on credits related to exports of goods, provided that the date on which payment falls due is not more than 120 days after the date of shipment. The transfer of funds abroad for this purpose is subject to prior MOF authorization. There are no controls, and repayments of commercial credits are generally approved, sub- ject to the presentation of documents attesting to the validity of the commercial operation or of the services rendered, as well as the payment due date. These credits require prior approval from the MOF. Outward transfers necessary to service such facilities require an exchange authorization, subject to the approval of the BCEAO acting on behalf of the MOF and substantiated by documentation. There are no controls on these credits, but they must be reported for statistical purposes. The necessary funds must be transferred from abroad through an authorized agent. There are no controls on repayments of loans, provided that the authorized agent handling the settlement is furnished with documentation attesting to the validity of the transaction. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities The regulations governing financial credits apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 171 By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls on the granting of these facilities; however, the funds involved must be transferred from abroad through an authorized intermediary. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment All investment abroad by residents is subject to prior MOF authorization. At least 75% of such investments must be financed by foreign loans. Authorization is not required for purchases of foreign securities whose issuance or offering for sale in WAEMU member countries has been authorized by the RCPSFM. Inward direct investment Inward investments must be reported for statistical purposes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital transactions The liquidation of investments abroad must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Reinvestment of the proceeds from the liquidation is subject to prior MOF authorization. If reinvestment is not authorized, the proceeds from the liquidation must be repatriated within one month through an authorized intermediary. The sale of foreign investments in Burkina Faso is unrestricted but must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Investments abroad by residents require prior authorization from the MOF. The investor must make the request in writing and designate the authorized intermediary that will exe- cute the payment. Whether the payment is made by an outward transfer of funds or by de- posit to a foreign exchange account in CFA francs, it cannot be executed until after the period agreed to by the parties. Loans The regulations governing securities and investments apply. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents In general, inheritances and dowries are authorized; endowments require prior approval. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants who have acquired resident status must obtain prior approval from the MOF to settle debts incurred abroad when they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets These transfers are subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions The regulations governing lend ing to nonresidents apply. Borrowing abroad Authorized agents are free to borrow from abroad. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and f inanc ial institutions are authorized to open accounts with their correspondent banks for settling transactions for their own account or the accounts of their customers. However, banks are not authorized to hold amounts in these accounts that exceed their current requirements. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) No controls apply if these operations involve commercial credits. Prior authorization from the MOF is required for financial credits. Lending locally in foreign exchange No regulations apply specifically to these transactions. However, prior MOF approval is required. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange These purchases require the prior approval of the RCPSFM. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 172 BURKINA FASO Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Monetary regulations make no distinction between resident deposit accounts, nonresident deposit accounts, and foreign deposit accounts. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents The regulations governing foreign investments apply. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits No prudential ratios apply. Open positions result from special dispensations. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Burundi is the Burundi franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Under a foreign exchange auction system, the Bank of the Republic of Burundi (BRB) sells foreign exchange weekly to authorized dealers; currently, these are commercial banks only. At the end of each weekly session, a market exchange rate is obtained that serves as a reference rate for the banks buying and selling rates to the public. Effective January 2, 2003, there is no preannounced floor on bids, but the central bank reserves the right to decline bids (previously, the BRB preannounced a floor on bids). Banks are required to use auctioned foreign exchange within 15 days. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. n.r. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements relating to trade with the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda in products specified in the commercial agreements with these countries are effected through a clearing process, with balances paid in convertible currencies. Nonresidents staying in a hotel or guesthouse in Burundi must pay their hotel bills by selling convertible currencies or by using a credit card. Payment in Burundi francs is, however, acceptable in the case of guests for whom a resident company or individual has assumed responsibility with prior authorization from the BRB and, in the case of nationals of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda, who produce declarations of means of payment issued under the auspices of the CEPGL. All payments for goods and services in Burundi must be made in domestic currency. Transactions in Burundi among residents must be conducted in domestic currency. There are trade agreements with the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Rwanda. These agreements are not fu l ly operational due to the unfavorable economic situation. Regional agreements exist with Eastern and Southern African countries. Clearing agreements exist with members of COMES A and CEPGL. Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the BRB; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to authorized banks. International security restrictions No. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 174 Payments arrears Off ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required BURUNDI Yes. Natural and juridical persons holding gold mining permits issued by the ministers responsi- ble for mining and customs may open purchasing houses for gold in transit or mined by artisans in Burundi. Gold produced by artisans may be sold only to approved houses. Exports of gold must be declared in Burundi francs at the average daily rates in effect at the time of declaration. Gold exports are authorized jointly by the mining and customs departments. All travelers may take out up to FBu 5,000. A license is required for anyone not holding a foreign exchange account. Travelers may bring in up to FBu 5,000. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency quoted by the BRB in addition to traveler's checks. Resident Accounts The regulation pertaining to foreign exchange bureaus and foreign exchange accounts au- thorizes resident natural persons or legal entities to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks. Foreign exchange accounts may be credited freely. Withdrawals of Burundi francs are unlimited. An airline ticket or other travel document is required for withdrawals of foreign exchange in the form of banknotes, traveler's checks, or checks up to the equiva- lent of $5,000 per transaction. Supporting documentation is required for transactions in- volving payments for imports of goods and services, withdrawals of banknotes, traveler's checks, or checks in excess of the equivalent of $5,000. Foreign exchange accounts may bear interest. Yes. Authorized banks may open foreign exchange accounts but must forward copies of the relevant documents to the BRB. Held abroad Prior BRB authorization is required to open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Any nonresident natural or juridical person may open a foreign exchange account in an authorized bank. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts may be debited and credited freely. These accounts may bear interest. Amounts less than or equal to $5,000 may be withdrawn in banknotes on presentation of travel documentation. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 175 Blocked accounts n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Advance import deposits Advance import deposits have been suspended since 1999. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Effective January 2, 2003, import and payment declarations (DIPs) are required for all imports and must be validated by commercial banks in accordance with the General Regulation on Exchange Control. Consignments of imports of food, Pharmaceuticals, chemicals, and used clothing exceeding the equivalent of $3,000 c.i.f. in value and of all other goods exceeding $5,000 c.i.f. in value may, in principle, be subject to preshipment inspection with regard to quality, quan- tity, and price by international supervising and oversight agents on behalf of the Burundi authorities. Currently, the inspection is carried out by the Societe Generate de Surveillance. This organization also determines the dutiable value of the imports subject to inspection. Letters of credit There is no obligation to settle import transactions by LCs. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Exchange licenses are issued on the basis of DIPs. All goods imported into Burundi must be insured by approved Burundi insurers, and premiums must be paid in Burundi francs. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Importers do not need licenses but must file a DIP. Imports of commercial samples, personal luggage, and effects of travelers, as well as all imports by diplomatic and UN missions, are exempt from f i l ing a DIP. Negative list Imports of 100% cotton printed cloth (pagne) are forbidden. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Burundi is a member of COMES A. There are five customs duty rates (10%, 12%, 15%, 40%, and 100%) applied to imports from countries not belonging to COMES A. Imports of petroleum products are subject to duties ranging from 6% to 40%. A 6% service tax, which replaced the statistical tax, is levied on the c.i.f. value of imports in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. A flat-rate profits tax of 4% is applied to all imports. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be collected within 30 days of the date of export declaration at cus- toms for shipment by air or w i th in 90 days for all other shipments. Deadlines for the collec- tion of proceeds from exports of nontraditional products are set by the commercial bank carrying out the operation. On January 3, 2003, the surrender requirement ratio for proceeds from exports of coffee, tea, and cotton was reduced to 70% from 100%. On December 1, 2003, the ratio was fur ther reduced to 50%. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements A va l ida t ion of the export declaration by a commercial bank is required. Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses Yes. Yes. Certain goods must be declared, but licenses are not required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 176 Export taxes BURUNDI Taxes are levied on a range of exports. The generally applicable rate is 5%. For green cof- fee, the rate is set each crop season. The export tax on all other types of coffee is 31%, but due to low international prices it has not been levied since 1999. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments All payments for invisibles require approval, but banks and foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to approve requests for amounts within the prescribed limits. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with a domestic insurer. Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Unloading and storage costs are limited to amounts indicated by the invoice. Investment-related payments Private joint-stock companies may transfer 100% of the return on foreign capital and of the profits distributed to foreign directors after payment of taxes. Airlines are authorized to transfer abroad 100% of their earnings after deduction of local expenses. Transfer of rental income is permitted (after payment of taxes and a deduction of 20% for maintenance expenses). Transfers of income from rents and sales of real estate have been suspended. Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Information is not available on payments of interest. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Commercial banks and the BRB provide foreign exchange for personal and business travel, respectively. Limits based on a daily allowance and the number of travel days apply, as follows: (1) off i- cial travel, the equivalent of $150-$300 a day, according to category and destination; (2) business travel, $300 a day, for a maximum of four trips a year each up to 10 days' duration; (3) tourism and personal travel, $200 a day for a maximum of one trip a year for up to 10 days; and (4) diplomatic and international official assignments, $1,000 an event. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Commercial banks grant foreign exchange for personal payments within the limits of their available foreign exchange. Pension transfers are effected through the Social Security Institute. For health-related travel, an initial allowance of up to the equivalent of $3,000 ($1,500 if travel is to Rwanda) is granted on departure, and additional transfers are authorized on presentation of invoices. For an accompanying traveler, the allowance is $200 a day for up to 10 days. Allowances for studies abroad are authorized on the basis of proof of enrollment. Univer- sity students with domestically sourced scholarships may receive up to the amount of their scholarships. Other university students are allowed to purchase the equivalent of the uni- versity tuition and €1,800 a quarter for subsistence and €500 a year for materials. Non- university students are allowed €500 a quarter. Interns are allowed up to €600 a month, after deducting any support awarded by their employer. Yes. Yes. Upon presentation of evidence of payment of taxes, foreign nationals residing and working in Burundi are permitted to transfer abroad up to 70% of their net annual income (80% in the case of foreign nationals working for companies that export at least 50% of their production). Indicative limits/bona fide test A work contract is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 177 Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Consulting and legal fees are limited to amounts indicated by invoices. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds may be kept in a foreign exchange account in a domestic bank. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital transactions Capital transfers abroad by residents require individual authorization. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases must be effected in foreign exchange. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are subject to the authorization of the MOF. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases must be made with nonresidents' own foreign exchange funds. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents BRB authorization is required, Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.r. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents BRB approval is required. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents BRB approval is required. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment The provision of foreign exchange for outward direct investments is suspended. Even with the emergence of the free foreign exchange market, banks are not authorized to sell foreign exchange for outward direct investments. Inward direct investment Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 178 BURUNDI Controls on liquidation of direct investment Transfers of foreign capital for which repatriation guarantees have been granted do not require individual authorization. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents BRB approval is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases must be effected in foreign exchange. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans The transfer of proceeds from the sale of real estate is suspended unless the purchaser is the holder of an adequately funded foreign exchange account. By residents to nonresidents These transactions are not specifically regulated if they are effected in domestic currency. To residents from nonresidents BRB approval is required. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions These transactions are not specifically regulated if they are effected in domestic currency. Borrowing abroad BRB approval is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad Only commercial banks may maintain accounts abroad. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Debit balances are not permitted on foreign exchange accounts. Prior approval of the BRB is required. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement January 2. The BRB ceased announcing a floor on bid rates at the foreign exchange auctions. Imports and import payments January 2. DIPs were required for all imports and were required to be validated by author- ized commercial banks in accordance with the General Regulation on Exchange Control. Exports and export proceeds January 3. The surrender requirement ratio for proceeds from exports of coffee, cotton, and tea was reduced to 70% from 100%. December 1. The surrender requirement ratio for proceeds from exports of coffee, tea, and cotton was reduced to 50% from 70%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 1, 2002. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cambodia is the Cambodian riel. The do l lar circulates freely and is used for payments. The exchange rate system comprises two rates: the official rate and the market rate. Ad- justments to the o f f ic ial exchange rate are made daily by the National Bank of Cambodia (NBC) to l im it the spread between the off ic ial and parallel market rates to less than 1%. The off ic ial exchange rate applies ma in ly to external transactions conducted by the gov- ernment and state-owned enterprises, and is used by banks for recording all transactions in foreign currency. The NBC quotes daily o f f ic ial rates, while commercial banks are free to buy and sell for- eign exchange at their own rates. Exchange transactions take place at the market rate. For- eign exchange dealers are permitted to buy and sell banknotes and traveler's checks at the market rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The responsibility for the management of foreign exchange rests with the NBC. The NBC is authorized to license commercial banks and other agents to engage in foreign exchange transactions and to regulate current and capital transactions. In practice, no restrictions apply. Banks have been instructed to freeze any transfers of capital and assets of certain individu- als and to freeze funds and other financial assets of terrorists and terrorist organizations pursuant to UN Security Council Resolutions Nos. 1267 and 1373, respectively. Yes. No. The import or export of raw gold and other precious metals is subject to prior declaration to the NBC if the value of each transaction equals or exceeds $10,000 or its equivalent. 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 180 CAMBODIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports The export of means of payment exceeding $10,000 in foreign exchange or its equivalent in domestic currency by a traveler must be declared to customs officers at border crossings of Cambodia. Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Yes. Exports are subject to prior notification to the NBC. The regulations pertaining to exports of banknotes apply. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically The balances of these accounts are not subject to limits, and the funds may be used to settle domestic obligations. All transactions may be settled in foreign currency. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Regulations applied to residents also apply to nonresidents. Domestic currency accounts No laws prohibit these accounts. Convertible into foreign currency No. Blocked accounts Accounts belonging to persons and/or organizations known to be associated with terrorist activities are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Loans and borrowings, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Authorized intermediaries may be required by the NBC to submit proof of payment of im- ports by banker's order in support of their applications to purchase foreign exchange, and later may also be required to provide various documentary evidence confirming the entry of goods into the country. When the collection is made, the proceeds from exports of goods or services must be credited to the exporter's account with the domiciled bank, in accordance with the existing law. Preshipment inspection is aimed at establishing the veracity of the import transaction in terms of volume, quality, and price. Imports of certain products are subject to control or are prohibited for reasons of national security, health, environmental well-being, or public morality. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA 181 Import taxes and/or tariffs Import duties and excise taxes are levied on selected imports. Imported goods are also subject to a VAT. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Export proceeds must be transacted through authorized domiciled banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Loans and borrowings, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. Export proceeds must be credited to the exporter's account with a domiciled bank in accor- dance with the existing law. Exports of a limited list of goods by both state-owned and private sector entities must be licensed by the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are required for sawed timber and some categories of logs. Exports of antiques and several categories of logs are prohibited. Exports of uncut precious stones are subject to the Law on Foreign Exchange. Exports of garments to the United States are subject to quotas. An export tax of 10% of the estimated market value applies to exports of timber and other selected exports. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles related to trade and investments are not restricted, but they must be effected through authorized banks. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements The proceeds from exports of services must be credited to the exporter's account with a domiciled bank, in accordance with existing laws. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments No securities markets exist in Cambodia, and there are no specific laws on capital market securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment There are no specific regulations regarding derivatives. Loans and borrowing, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized banks. There are no specific laws requiring approval, and capital transfers relating to investment abroad are not restricted. However, transactions involving the equivalent of $100,000 or more require prior declaration to the NBC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 182 CAMBODIA Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Foreign investors are required to obtain approval from the Council for Development of Cambodia, but there are no foreign exchange restrictions. Proceeds from the liquidation of foreign direct investment taking place in accordance with the provisions of the investment law of Cambodia may be transferred freely. However, such transfers have to be made through authorized intermediaries, which must report to the NBC all amounts equal to or exceeding $100,000 or its equivalent. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may not own land in Cambodia. Sale locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may not sell land in Cambodia. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans No. Loans and borrowings, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and the repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. Transfer of assets These transactions must be effected through authorized banks. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Authorized banks must provide the NBC with periodic statements of transfers or settle- ments and of outflows and inflows of capital carried out between Cambodia and the rest of the world. Any export of foreign currency banknotes by authorized intermediaries is subject to prior declaration to the NBC. Loans and borrowing, including trade credits, may be freely contracted between residents and nonresidents, provided that the loan disbursements and repayments thereof are made through authorized intermediaries. However, in the event of a foreign exchange crisis, the NBC may issue regulations to be implemented for a maximum period of three months, imposing certain temporary restrictions on the activity of authorized intermediaries, particularly on certain transactions specified in the law, their foreign exchange position, or any loans in domestic currency extended to nonresidents. Banks may lend only to nonresidents conducting business within Cambodia. Banks are required to maintain at all times a maximum ratio of 20% between their overall exposure resulting from their operations with each individual beneficiary and their net worth. Yes. Yes. Banks are not allowed to exceed their short or long position in any single foreign currency by more than 5% and in all foreign currencies by more than 15% of their net worth. Residents and nonresidents are treated the same. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws There are no institutional investors in Cambodia. There are no securities laws. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Cameroon is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at this rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also set off ic ia l ly on the basis of the fixed rate for the euro and the rates for the other currencies concerned in the exchange markets. Commercial banks collect commissions at a rate they each set freely, within limits not exceeding 0.25% for any intra-CAEMC transac- tion and 0.5% for all transactions with areas outside the CAEMC. For exchange of bank- notes and traveler's checks, authorized intermediaries collect commissions of 4% for franc area currencies and 10% for other currencies. However, such commissions are not levied on government exchange transactions. Imports of foreign exchange by authorized dealers are subject to a stamp duty of 0.01% of face value; the duty does not apply to imports by the BEAC. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Cameroon is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in any of the currencies of the parties to the transaction or in a third currency agreed to by the parties. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links all Operations Account countries. All purchases and sales of foreign currencies and euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange regulations of CAEMC member countries are harmonized. There are clearing arrangements in the framework of the CEEAC. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Financial Cooperation, Money and Insurance, in the Ministry of Finance and Budget (MOFB), which delegates its authority to authorized intermediaries. The BEAC monitors exchange regulations, evaluates foreign exchange risk coverage, approves the opening of resident foreign exchange accounts, and monitors the repatriation of export proceeds. Authorized intermediaries verify that transac- tions conform to regulations, and collect statistics and applicable taxes. There are no such restrictions under the legislation in force. However, in practice, decisions are taken in accordance with the resolutions of the international community (e.g., IMF, UN). Payments arrears n.a. 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 184 CAMEROON Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are free to hold, purchase, and sell gold and precious stones in any form within the CAEMC. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Imports and exports of gold and precious stones in any form outside the CAEMC require prior authorization of the relevant authorities. This authorization is not required for (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). All imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Exports of CFA francs by nonresidents are prohibited. Resident travelers may hold up to CFAF 100,000, while resident and nonresident travelers going to or from any CAEMC country may hold an un l im i ted amount of BE AC banknotes. All travelers exiting the CAEMC must declare to customs exports of foreign currencies and securities exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 1 m i l l ion. Imports of CFA francs by nonresidents are prohibited. Resident travelers may import up to CFAF 100,000, while resident and nonresident travelers arriving from a CAEMC country may hold an unlimited amount of BE AC banknotes. Travelers may import banknotes from CAEMC countries without limitation, subject to the requirement that imports of foreign currency and securities exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 1 m i l l ion be declared to customs. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are permitted to open foreign currency accounts at commercial banks, with prior approval of the MOFB and BEAC. These accounts may not be credited or debited by transfers in CFA francs. Held domestically Approval required The opening of foreign exchange accounts exclusively for use by enterprises in the strategic sector (e.g., petroleum) that are also allowed to maintain their accounts in foreign currency is subject to the prior authorization of the MOFB. Held abroad The opening and maintenance of accounts abroad are prohibited, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts No restrictions apply to these accounts with respect to opening or effecting credit or debit operations. Nonresidents may freely open foreign accounts denominated in CFA francs in the CAEMC; the opening of such accounts must be reported by authorized intermediaries to the BEAC. These accounts, which are held mainly by diplomatic missions, international institutions, and their nonresident employees, may be credited without prior authorization with (1) proceeds of sales of foreign currencies transferred from abroad by account holders, (2) transfers from other foreign accounts denominated in CFA francs, (3) payments by residents in accordance with exchange regulations and (4) other transfers from abroad that ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 185 are not prohibited. These accounts may be debited without prior authorization for (1) purchases of foreign currencies from authorized intermediaries, (2) transfers to other foreign accounts denominated in CFA francs, (3) payments to residents in accordance with exchange regulations, and (4) other payments to nonresidents that conform to exchange regulations. Overdrafts on these accounts are not permitted. Nonresidents may freely open foreign exchange accounts in the CAEMC; the opening of such accounts must be reported by authorized intermediaries to the BEAC. Accounts may be credited and debited only with foreign exchange, and overdrafts on these accounts are not permitted. Prior authorization of the MOFB is not required. Foreign exchange accounts for use by embassies, international organizations, and similar institutions require a declaration. Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts n.r. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Import payments must be made in accordance with the terms of the under ly ing contracts. However, advance payments are authorized for up to 50% of the value of imports. Settlements of imports exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 100 m i l l ion must be verified and accompanied by supporting documents. Minimum financing requirements No restrictions apply to import financing. The amounts to be transferred must correspond to those contained in the relevant import declaration. Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Up to 50% of prefinancing is authorized; the balance is authorized only upon presentation of the relevant trade documents. All import transactions for domestic consumption must be reported for statistical purposes, and those valued at more than CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with a resident author- ized bank. Transactions involving goods in transit must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final destination. Preshipment inspection All imports valued at more than CFAF 2 million f.o.b. are subject to inspection by the Societe generale de surveillance (SGS). Letters of credit LCs are allowed but are optional. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Import licenses have been almost totally abolished. Importers of goods worth more than CFAF 5 m i l l ion are required to fill out an import declaration with the SGS. The importing of certain products, which are included in a list established each year by the Ministry of Industrial and Commercial Development (MINDIC), remains subject to licensing. A list of products that are still subject to authorization is published annually by the MINDIC in the Programme generale des echanges (Overall Trade Program). Certain imports are prohibited for ecological, health, or safety reasons. These licenses are required mainly for long-term supply contracts. Quotas are applicable to imports by container. Import tariffs range from 5% to 30%. Import surcharges apply only to imports from coun- tries outside the CAEMC. Taxes collected through the exchange system Surcharges apply only to imports from countries outside the CAEMC and to imports of maize meal and cement. State import monopoly There is a state import monopoly only for imports relating to sovereign expenditure (such as defense and security). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 186 CAMEROON Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract through the servicing bank via the BEAC. Oil compa- nies are exempt from the repatriation requirement. However, waivers may be granted by the president of the Republic to companies of a strategic nature and that represent the national interest. Export proceeds must be surrendered within 30 days of their repatriation. No. For exports of fresh food products (vegetables, fruits), a health certificate is required before shipment. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate docu- ments. Export transactions valued at CFAF 5 million or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Exports to all countries are subject to inspection by the SGS. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Licenses are required for all exports valued at the equivalent of CFAF 5 million or more. Export licenses are issued by the MOFB. Yes. Export taxes established in the Budget Law are collected by the Directorate of Customs. An export tax of 17.5% is applied to processed timber, and a rate of 12.5% is applied to semiprocessed timber. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Payments for invisibles bound for any country must be reported for statistical purposes to an authorized intermediary and are subject to presentation of relevant invoices. Payments for invisibles related to trade are subject to the same requirement as basic trade transac- tions, as are transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties. No restrictions apply to the transfer of amounts necessary for the payment of all other trade-related expenses. The payment of these expenses is authorized upon presentation of invoices and related documents, when the latter are not taken into account in the basic commercial contract. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Distributed profits, dividends, and other interest paid by residents to nonresidents may be transferred when the underlying transaction was authorized or is not subject to authorization. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Transfers are authorized on the basis of conventions, contracts, minutes of general meetings (as regards profits and dividends), and loan repayment schedules (as regards interest). Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits No restrictions apply to the acquisition of foreign currency by residents traveling to coun- tries other than CAEMC member countries. The limit on foreign exchange allowances for business travelers is the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a trip with no limit on the number of trips. For tourist, education, or business travel, the allowance is CFAF 4 million for adults and CFAF 2 million for chil- dren. For travel for medical reasons, the limit is CFAF 5 million; however, this amount may be adjusted upon presentation of supporting documents. Returning resident travelers ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages CAMEROON 187 are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender them within 30 days. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreigners working in Cameroon may transfer a portion of their net remuneration upon presentation of their pay slip, most recent income tax return, work contract, and proof of residence of their family abroad. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Limits are determined on the basis of the supporting documents provided. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Limits are determined on the basis of the supporting documents provided. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All receipts from services and all income earned abroad must be collected within 30 days of the due date through an authorized bank (Article 68 of the CAEMC regulations). Foreign currency receipts must be surrendered to the BE AC within 30 days of the date of receipt (Article 69 of the CAEMC regulations). Returning resident travelers are required to declare all means of payment in their possession upon arrival at customs and to surrender them within the following eight-day period. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital transactions between Cameroon and CAEMC member countries are free of ex- change control. Capital transactions between Cameroon and all other countries are also free of exchange control, subject to legal enforcement against drug-related financing, procuring, and any other misconduct. However, foreign borrowing; foreign direct investment; and the issuing, advertising, or marketing of foreign securities may be subject to special control measures. Inward capital transfers are not controlled, except for foreign direct investments and borrowing, which are subject to registration and authorization. Transactions are permitted; however, those valued at more than CFAF 100 m i l l ion must be reported to the MOFB. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 188 CAMEROON Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents The issuing, advertising, or marketing of foreign securities in Cameroon valued at more than CFAF 10 m i l l ion requires prior authorization of the MOFB. All foreign securities and debt instruments must be lodged with an authorized intermediary and are deemed to be foreign assets, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments Transactions in money market instruments valued at more than CFAF 10 m i l l ion require authorization from the MOFB. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Prior MOFB authorization is required for transactions valued at more than CFAF 10 million. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior declaration to the MOFB is required. Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization of the MOFB is required for transactions valued at more than CFAF 10 million. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior declaration to the MOFB is required for transactions valued at more than CFAF 10 m i l l ion. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.r. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Lending abroad by natural and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered o f f ice is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon, of ju r id ical persons whose registered off ice is abroad, requires prior authorization of the MOFB whenever the value of the transaction exceeds CFAF 100 m i l l ion. However, the fo l low ing exceptions to prior authorization apply: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad because prior approval has been obtained; and (2) loans directly connected with the provision of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part. Borrowing abroad up to CFAF 100 million by natural and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of jur id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, must be reported to the MOFB within 30 days of each transaction. All other loans from nonresidents must be reported to the MOFB and the central bank 30 days before they are contracted. Loans contracted by public and quasi-public enterprises, as well as all government-backed foreign loans, are subject to prior MOFB authorization. Transactions valued at more than CFAF 100 m i l l ion must be reported to the MOFB and to the BEAC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 189 To residents from nonresidents Prior declaration to the MOFB is required. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Yes. Direct investments abroad and foreign inves tmen ts in Cameroon (including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon must be reported to the MOFB); banks are authorized to examine and then execute transactions valued at up to CFAF 100 m i l l ion. Foreign investments abroad, including direct investment, must be declared to the MOFB 30 days prior to execution, unless such investments derive from the reinvestment of undis- tributed profits. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The liquidation of foreign direct investment and foreign investment of more than CFAF 100 m i l l ion must be reported to the MOFB 30 days in advance. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents These transactions must be reported to the MOFB. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions must be reported to the MOFB. Sale locally by nonresidents These transactions must be reported to the MOFB. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Except for loans representing an authorized investment and those relating directly to the provision of services, banks are authorized to execute only the following transactions: (1) loans granted by resident authorized banks; and (2) other loans valued at up to CFAF 100 m i l l ion. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies The authorization of the MOFB is not required for transfers related to these operations. They are, however, subject to reporting for statistical purposes. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Banks are authorized to execute these operations. However, they are required to report them to the MOFB. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Correspondent accounts are permitted. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Only deposits in convertible CFA francs are permitted for nonresidents. Open foreign exchange position l im i ts Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 190 CAMEROON Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 25, 1952. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Canada is the Canadian dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the Canadian dollar is determined on the basis of supply and demand; however, the authorities may intervene in the foreign exchange market to promote orderly movements in the exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward exchange rates are determined freely in the exchange market. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Canada is a member of the NAFTA. There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports, when required, is handled mostly by the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Canada maintains certain restrictions on the transfer, remittance, or assignation of money, checks, bank deposits, and other financial instruments held by, on behalf of, or in an ac- count of the government of Serbia and Montenegro. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, Canada imposes restrictions on finan- cial transactions with Bosnia and Herzegovina and a freeze on disputed property situated in Canada, including the assets of all the successor states of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Furthermore, a freeze is imposed on the assets of five former Yugoslav gov- ernment o f f ic ia ls indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Reexports of gold of U.S. origin to all countries except the United States require a permit. Commercial imports of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and do not require a license. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 192 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs CANADA Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Certain assets connected to the former government of Iraq, Libya, and Serbia and Monte- negro are frozen, pursuant to resolutions of the UN Security Council. Although the sanc- tions against Libya have been suspended by the UN Security Council, Canadian regulations remain in effect. Transactions allowed by ministerial certificates are conducted on a routine basis. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import permits are required for the importation of certain agricultural products, certain textile products and clothing, certain endangered species of fauna and flora, natural gas, material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy, certain military arma- ments, and certain internationally controlled drugs. In addition, Health Canada does not permit the importation of unregistered drugs. Commercial imports of used motor vehicles (less than 15 years old) have been generally prohibited, except from the United States. The prohibition on imports of used vehicles from Mexico will be phased out by January 1, 2019. Yes. Imports of some clothing and certain textile products, usually in the form of bilateral re- straint agreements concluded under the MFA, are also subject to quantitative restrictions. In accordance with the provisions of the Uruguay Round Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, Canada's system of import controls on textiles and clothing is being liberalized in stages over a 10-year period that began on January 1, 1995. As a result of the commitments made under the Uruguay Round Agreement, Canada replaced all agricultural import restrictions with tariff rate quotas to ensure import access levels as negotiated in the Uruguay Round (or under the NAFTA). Measures consistent with international trade obligations (e.g., countervailing duties) are in effect. Antidumping duties are imposed, taking into consideration competition policy fac- tors as well as other economic costs. On average, import tariff rates are low. The highest tariff rates are applied to over-quota, supply-managed agricultural products. State import monopoly Certain monopolies exist at the federal level. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA 193 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas The Export Control List identifies all goods that are controlled in order to implement inter- governmental arrangements, maintain supplies, or ensure security. It includes all items identified in the International Munitions List, the International Dual Use List, and the Inter- national Atomic Energy List. In addition, controls are maintained for supply reasons to ensure the orderly export marketing of certain products that are subject to import limita- tions by other countries; to promote further processing in Canada (e.g., of logs and herring roe); and for nonproliferation purposes (i.e., chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons and their delivery systems). The Area Control List includes a limited number of countries to which all exports are controlled. At present, Myanmar is on the Area Control List. Permits are required for the exportation of listed goods to all countries except, in most cases, the United States, as well as for all goods destined to countries on the Area Control List, unless otherwise exempted. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Specific restrictions exist on inward direct investments in the broadcasting, telecommunica- tions, transportation, financial, fishery, and energy sectors. In addition, under the provision of the Investment Canada Act (ICA), new foreign investments are generally subject to noti- fication requirements but not to review requirements. Except in sensitive sectors, where the non-Canadian investor or vendor is u l t ima te ly subject to the legislation of a WTO country other than Canada, only direct acquisitions of control of a Canadian business that has assets equal to or greater than Can$223 million (for 2003) are subject to review. (This amount is adjusted annually to reflect economic growth in Canada.) The acquisition of control of a Canadian enterprise is considered direct investment when it involves the acquisition of control of a corporation conducting business in Canada. It is considered indirect investment when it involves the transfer of control by share acquisition of a non-Canadian corporation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 194 CANADA that controls a Canadian corporation conducting business in Canada. These provisions were multilateralized as part of Canada's implementation of the Uruguay Round. Different thresholds apply in the case of investments made by non-WTO investors and in culturally sensitive sectors. Canada applies a "net benefit" test to determine whether a pro- posed investment will provide economic benefits domestically. Where the non-Canadian investor and vendor are ultimately subject to the legislation of a non-WTO country, the direct acquisition of control of a Canadian business that has assets greater than Can$5 mil- lion or the indirect acquisition of control of a Canadian business with assets greater than Can$50 million (or Can$5 million if 50% or more of the total assets of the business ac- quired are located in Canada) is subject to review. The acquisition of a Canadian business involved in cultural industries, financial services, transportation services, or uranium production is subject to a limit of Can$5 million regard- less of the nationality of the investor or vendor. Acquisitions in cultural industries may be subject to review, if the government so decides. The complete list of cultural activities is contained in schedule IV of the ICA. Investments that are generally subject to review are allowed if they are likely to be of net benefit to Canada. Cases that are subject to review must be resolved within 75 days, unless the investor agrees to a longer period of time. In practice, most cases are resolved within 45 days. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Sale locally by nonresidents There are no controls; however, withholding taxes apply. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Banks are generally free to make investments in financial entities, subject to approval. However, certain limitations apply to the type of commercial entities in which they may invest, both domestically and abroad. No controls are placed on the ownership of banks that specifically preclude nonresident ownership. Although the shares of large banks (i.e., those with more than Can$5 million in equity) must remain widely held, new legislation allows fit and proper investors to own up to 20% of voting shares or 30% of any class of nonvoting shares, provided that no single shareholder or group of shareholders controls the bank. Medium-sized banks (i.e., those with between Can$l billion and Can$5 billion in equity) may have individual sharehold- ings of up to 65% with a public offering of at least 35% of the voting shares. Residents or nonresidents may set up or acquire a smaller bank, subject to ministerial approval. No. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde escudo. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The Cape Verde escudo is pegged to the euro at the rate of CVEsc 110.27 per €1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Administration of control No. No. Institutions legally authorized to conduct foreign exchange business in Cape Verde may freely engage in forward exchange transaction among themselves, with their customers, with the Bank of Cape Verde (BCV), and with other banks domiciled abroad. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Most dealings in foreign exchange with the general public are conducted by four commer- cial banks: Banco Comercial do Atlantico (BCA), Caixa Economica de Cabo Verde (CECV), Banco Totta e A9ores, and Banco Interatlantico. Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated in convertible currencies. Yes. There are agreements with Cuba, under which Cape Verde is a net creditor. There are agreements with Angola, which are currently under negotiation. All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the BCV, the central bank. Cur- rent account transactions, investments in securities, and foreign borrowing and lending in connection with current transactions have been liberalized. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears O f f ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) There are external arrears to Russia and Brazil, for which rescheduling negotiations are under way. Rescheduling negotiations with Spain have been concluded. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold require prior licensing by the BCV. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The exportation of domestic currency by travelers is permitted up to a limit of CVEsc 20,000 a person a trip. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 196 CAPE VERDE Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Residents traveling abroad may take out the equivalent of CVEsc 1 m i l l ion (approximately $10,000). The importation of domestic currency is permitted up to specified limits. Foreign travelers may import foreign currency up to specified limits. Resident Accounts Residents are permitted to open foreign currency accounts at commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The operation of these accounts is subject to BCV regulations, which are currently nonrestrictive. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Yes. n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be opened and operated as demand or term deposit accounts. Term deposit accounts may be maintained for no more than one year. Approval is required to open these accounts. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts Nonresident foreigners may open nonremunerated demand deposit accounts in local cur- rency. Nonresident nationals and certain family members may open interest-bearing ac- counts. The operation of these accounts is subject to BCV regulations, which are currently nonrestrictive. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments Yes. No. Yes. Imports of goods exceeding CVEsc 100,000 and not involving payments from the country's foreign exchange resources are subject to a preregistration requirement. Licenses, which are issued by the General Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy, Transportation, and Communications, require the endorsement of the BCV and are generally valid for 90 days; they are renewable. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license has been previously certified by the BCV. Licenses are, in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 197 general, granted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other development- related equipment. Imports with a value of less than CVEsc 100,000 are exempt from the licensing requirement. Positive list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Effective January 1, 2004, the 9% customs fee no longer applies, reducing the number of tariff bands to seven, with rates ranging up to 50% and with an unweighted average of 13% (previously 15%). State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months, but this period may be extended. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Yes. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative Urnits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchases in excess of the equivalent of CVEsc 1 million in foreign currency a person a trip are subject to prior approval and submission of appropriate supporting documents. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfers by foreign technical assistance personnel working in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the individual contracts. These contracts, as well as other con- tracts involving foreign exchange expenditures, are subject to prior screening by the BCV. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 198 CAPE VERDE Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated in convertible currencies. Yes. n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Inward capital transactions, except those for investments in securities and foreign borrow- ing and lending in connection with current account transactions, must be approved in ad- vance by the BCV. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are permitted; however, they must be effected through the stock market or authorized dealers. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are permitted; however, they must be effected through the stock market or authorized dealers. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations These instruments do not exist. Foreign borrowing and lending in connection with current transactions have been liberal- ized. However, these transactions are subject to verification by the BCV. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. F inanc ial credits Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. All direct investments require a permit (Certificado de Investidor Externo) and must be registered with the BCV. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions. Controls on personal capital transactions Controls apply on all these transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 199 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions. Maintenance of accounts abroad These accounts may be freely opened and operated. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Reserve requirements Special authorization from the BCV is required for these transactions. Foreign currency deposits are aggregated with local currency deposits valued at the official exchange rate for the purpose of calculating required reserves. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2004 Imports and import payments January L The 9% customs fee was eliminated, reducing the number of tariff bands to seven and reducing the unweighted average rate to 13% from 15%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of the Central African Republic is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at that rate, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies concerned. A commission of 0.5%, excluding VAT, is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the treasury and for the expenses of students. No. No. There are no forward exchange markets. However, as allowed by the fixed peg with the euro, exporters and importers may cover their position on the Paris foreign exchange market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because the Central African Republic is linked to the French Treasury through an Opera- tions Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made in euros or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in francs. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that l inks Operations Account countries. All purchases and sales of foreign currencies and euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange regulations of member countries in the CAEMC are harmonized. All draft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the state require the prior approval of the Ministry for the Econ- omy, Finance, Planning, and International Cooperation (MEFPIC). The Debt Directorate of the MEFPIC supervises borrowing abroad. The Off ice of Foreign Financial Relations of the same ministry supervises (1) lending abroad; (2) the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic; and (3) inward and outward di- rect investment. Exchange control is administered by the MEFPIC, which has delegated some approval authority to the BEAC (control over the external position of the banks, granting of exceptional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and control over the repatriation of net export proceeds), to authorized banks, and to the Postal Admini- stration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Export declarations are to be made through the Directorate of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are to be made through the BEAC. 200 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 201 n.a. Yes. Imports and exports of gold require a license, which is seldom granted. In practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Exempt from prior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the treasury, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and license-free imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Certain companies have been officially appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. There is no limit on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may export from one CAEMC country to another. Exports of banknotes outside the CAEMC zone are prohibited. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of pay- ment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the amount declared at the time of entry; the reexportation of foreign bank- notes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either their importation or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits held in local banks. There is no limit on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may import from another CAEMC country. Imports of banknotes from outside the CAEMC zone are prohibited. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts n.a. n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in euros. As the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of its member countries, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui may not be credited to foreign accounts in euros. Blocked accounts n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 202 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports n.a. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions in excess of CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection is required for coffee, cotton, and diamonds. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import declarations are required for all imports, and the import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Taxes and duties on sugar imports must be paid in advance. Negative list Imports of firearms of any origin are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs The CAEMC GET applies. There are four rates: 5% for essential commodities, 10% for capital goods and inputs, 20% for intermediates, and 30% for consumer goods. The intra- CAEMC tariff is 20% of the GET. State import monopoly n.a. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds must be collected and repatriated within one month of the due date, which must not be later than 30 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than euros or those of an Operations Account country must be surrendered within one month of collection. Financing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements Domiciliation All export transactions in excess of CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection for coffee is required. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports require a declaration. Yes. An export tax is applied. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Approval authority for many types of payment has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trade-related payments Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 203 Investment-related payments Transfers of profits and dividends are permitted freely when the underlying transaction has been approved. Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Residents traveling to other countries of the franc zone and euro area may obtain an unlim- ited allocation in euros. Within the BEAC zone, BEAC banknotes may be exported without limit. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the fol- lowing limits: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 4 million a trip; and (2) for business travel, CFAF 10 million a trip. All resident travelers, regardless of destination, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes registered in their name and issued abroad is not restricted. However, documentation is required to prove that such means of payment have been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide requests for allowances in excess of the limits are normally granted. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval may be required for these transactions, except in the case of payments for studies abroad. The allowance for travel to countries outside the franc zone for medical treatment or educational purposes is CFAF 5 million. Indicative limits/bona fide test Transfers of pensions and payments for medical expenses, studies abroad, alimony, and fam i ly maintenance are allowed upon presentation of supporting documentation. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Foreign nationals working in the CAEMC are allowed to transfer part of their net salary upon presentation of their pay vouchers, provided that the transfers take place within three months of the pay period concerned. Yes. The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and approved by the MEFPIC, is limited to the ceilings set for tourism and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona f ide requests for allowances in excess of limits are normally granted. Other payments Prior approval Prior approval is required for payments of consulting and legal fees. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. Proceeds of more than CFAF 5 million that are received from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within one month of the due date. All proceeds over CFAF 5 million for services and income earned in those countries from foreign assets received in foreign currency must be surrendered within one month of the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 204 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital transfers between the Central African Republic, France, and the Operations Ac- count countries are free of exchange control, provided that they are not related to activities prohibited under CAEMC regulations. Capital transfers to all other countries require ex- change control approval and are restricted, but capital transfers from these countries are permitted freely. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization from the MEFPIC. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the govern- ment; and (2) shares similar to securities, when the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Central African Republic has previously been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Lending abroad by residents or by branches or subsidiaries of juridical persons in the Cen- tral African Republic whose registered off ice is abroad requires prior authorization from the MEFPIC. Exempt from this authorization are (1) loans granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 100 mil- lion for any one lender. The contracting of loans that are exempt from authorization and each repayment must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 30 days of the operation. Foreign borrowing by the government or its pub l ic and semipublic enterprises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a government guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Di- rector of the Budget. Borrowing abroad by residents or by branches or subsidiaries of ju- ridical persons in the Central African Republic whose registered off ice is abroad requires prior authorization from the MEFPIC. Exempt from this authorization are (1) loans consti- tuting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central African Republic and countries abroad, or between foreign countries in which those persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount of loans outstanding does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower. Loans referred to under (4) and each repayment must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 30 days of the opera- tion, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 205 Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Direct investments of over CFAF 100 m i l l ion abroad, including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central African Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central African Republic, require the prior approval of the MEFPIC within 30 days, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits. Investments must be declared to the MEFPIC within 30 days, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits; the MEFPIC may request a postponement of up to two months from receipt of the declaration. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The liquidation of investments requires prior approval from the MEFPIC, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved. Controls on real estate transactions n.a. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Chad is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate and are free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rates in the Paris exchange market for the currencies con- cerned. All transfers and exchange operations are subject to a commission levied by the treasury. The commission rate amounts to 0.25% in the CFA franc zone and 0.5% (exclud- ing VAT) outside the CFA franc zone. No. No. Forward cover for imports is permitted only for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the MOF. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Chad is an Operations Account country; therefore, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in francs. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. The exchange regulations of CAEMC member countries are harmonized. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the MOF, but it has delegated approval authority in part to the External Finance and Exchange Control Subdirectorate, which issues instruc- tions to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to countries outside the Operations Account area must be made through authorized banks. The MOF supervises public and private sector borrowing and lending abroad; the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad; and inward and outward direct investment. It also issues import and export authorizations for gold. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Off ic ial Yes. 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 207 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from both the MOF and the Direc- torate of Geological and Mining Research, as well as a visa from the External Finance De- partment. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by, or on behalf of, the monetary authorities; and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The exportation of banknotes issued by the BE AC to areas outside that of the BEAC is prohibited. Nonresidents traveling from one BEAC member country to another may take with them an unlimited amount of CFA franc zone banknotes and coins. Residents visiting other CFA franc zone countries may obtain an unlimited allocation in euros. This allocation may be provided in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, and bank or postal transfers, etc. For travel to countries outside the CFA franc zone, the ex- change allocation depends on the type of travel and may be made in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, or postal transfers. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign ex- change or other foreign means of payment up to the amount they declared on entry into the BEAC area. If they have made no declaration on entry into one of the BEAC countries, they may take out only up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of Operations Account countries. The importation of banknotes issued by the BEAC from outside the BEAC area is prohibited. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Principal nonresident accounts are foreign accounts in francs. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations applied in France. Because the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Chad by the Bank of France or the BEAC may not be credited to foreign accounts in francs. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but prior approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 208 CHAD Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Imports in excess of CFAF 100,000 and relating to countries outside the BEAC area must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs A special import authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Promotion is required for imports of sulfur and other explosives. Import tariffs on products from countries that are not members of the UDEAC range from 5% to 30% with four tariff bands. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days of the arrival of the commodi- ties at their destination. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or of an Operations Ac- count country must be surrendered. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered within one month of the due date. No. Yes. Yes. Export transactions related to foreign countries and exceeding CFAF 50,000 must be domi- ciled with an authorized bank. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely if the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. On a temporary basis, nonresi- dents, except diplomatic missions and their staff, international organizations and their staff, agencies with equivalent status and their staff, as well as employees and self-employed members of the professions (professionally active in Operations Account area countries for less than a year), are not permitted to send payments to countries that are not CFA franc ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits CHAD 209 zone members without prior authorization from the relevant authorities. They may, how- ever, receive payments from abroad. A simple declaration is required for transfers to coun- tries outside the BEAC area not exceeding CFAF 500,000 by residents; for transfers of more than CFAF 500,000, prior authorization must be obtained from the relevant authori- ties. For many types of payment, approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks, which are required to execute promptly all duly documented transfer orders and to dispatch cable transfers within 48 hours of receipt of the relevant request. Insurance on all imports with f.o.b. values exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be arranged with local insurance companies by the importer. Yes. Yes. Yes. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Travelers—civil servants on missions, students, persons on pilgrimage, etc.—must use the following payment instruments: foreign exchange, traveler's checks, bank drafts, bank and postal transfers, etc. Residents visiting other CFA franc zone countries may obtain an unlimited allocation in euros. This allocation may be provided in banknotes, traveler's checks, bank drafts, bank or postal transfers, etc. For travel to countries outside the CFA franc zone, the exchange allocation is subject to prior authorization from the relevant administrative authorities. Residents traveling outside the CFA franc zone for tourism, sporting events, participation in expositions, organization of fairs, participation in seminars or international meetings in a personal capacity, pilgrimages, etc., may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a day up to a maximum of CFAF 4 million a person a trip for those over 10 years of age; for children under 10, the allocation is reduced by one-half. Residents trav- eling to countries outside the CFA franc zone for business may obtain an exchange alloca- tion equivalent to CFAF 500,000 a day, up to a maximum of CFAF 10 million a trip. Civil servants and government employees traveling on official business to countries outside the CFA franc zone may obtain the same exchange allocation as tourists, but only if their mission costs are less than a daily allocation of CFAF 200,000, up to a limit of CFAF 4 million. For amounts exceeding these limits, higher exchange allocation is subject to the presentation of supporting documents. Yes. Yes. For countries outside the CFA franc zone, the exchange allocation for medical costs is equivalent to CFAF 250,000 a day, up to a limit of CFAF 5 million. For studies abroad, the exchange allocation for countries outside the CFA franc zone is equivalent to a three-month scholarship plus expenses for supplies. However, a student, whether or not the holder of a scholarship, may obtain an exchange allocation not exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 2 million. Higher exchange allocations are subject to the presentation of supporting documents. Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 210 CHAD Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within two months of the due date. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital movements between Chad and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currencies, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents held by residents or nonresidents in Chad must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Additional special controls are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad; inward and outward direct investment; and the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign secu- rities in Chad. These controls relate only to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign secu- rities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad or in the CAEMC for amounts exceeding CFAF 10 million requires prior authorization from the MOF. If authorization is granted, the transactions carry a state guarantee. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents CHAD 211 Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending requires prior MOF authorization. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms concerned, or with the f inanc ing of commercial transactions either be- tween Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or f irms take part; and (2) other loans when the total outstanding amount of these loans does not exceed CFAF 5 m i l l ion for any one lender. The making of loans referred to under (2) requires no authorization, but each repayment must be declared to the MOF within 30 days of the operation. Borrowing requires prior MOF authorization. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) borrowing constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) borrowing directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or f irms concerned, or with the f inanc ing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) types of borrowing other than those mentioned above when the total outstanding amount of the loan does not exceed CFAF 10 m i l l ion for any one borrower, the interest rate is no higher than 7%, and the ma- turity is two years or less. Borrowing referred to under (3) requires no authorization, but each repayment must be declared to the MOF within 30 days of the operation. Financial credits The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Investments require the prior approval of the MOF. Inward direct investment Investments require the prior approval of the MOF, unless they take the form of a mixed- economy enterprise. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Chad must be declared to the MOF w i th in 30 days of each operation. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Yes. Yes. Yes. Loan transactions between residents and nonresidents exceeding CFAF 5 m i l l ion require prior MOF authorization. By residents to nonresidents Loans granted by resident natural persons to nonresidents require central bank authorization and no t i f ica t ion to the MOF 30 days before the loan is to be transacted. To residents from nonresidents Transfer of gamb l ing and prize earnings Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 212 CHAD Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Authorized banks may freely borrow from abroad. These transactions, however, must be declared to the MOF and the BEAC 30 days in advance. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position as of April 30, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 27, 1977. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Chile is the Chilean peso. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy The exchange rate of the peso is determined freely in the foreign exchange market. The Central Bank of Chile (CBC) may intervene in the market in exceptional circumstances. No. No. Forward exchange market Transactions in the forward exchange market are not restricted. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Settlements between Chile and the other LAIA countries are made through accounts main- tained in the corresponding central banks, under the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Exchange market regulations and their administration are the responsibility of the CBC. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Only authorized dealers may trade monetary gold, but ordinary transactions in gold between private individuals are unrestricted. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Juridical persons may hold foreign currency checking accounts, but they must take into account legal restrictions on investments, based on their commercial activities (e.g., pen- sion fund administrators). In the case of checking accounts, commercial banks must certify the account holder's domicile. Juridical persons subject to regulations on investment abroad (e.g., banks and pension funds) must abide by such regulations. 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 214 CHILE Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts The opening and holding of checking accounts are subject to domicile requirements. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Only resident natural and juridical persons may engage in import activities. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports of used motor vehicles are restricted. Other nontariff measures Imports of wheat, maize, edible oil, and sugar are subject to a price band system. Import taxes and/or tariffs The uniform tariff rate is 6% with a few exceptions (including items imported from LAIA countries and under a number of bilateral trade agreements). State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes No. No. Yes. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Investment-related payments Credit card use abroad Transactions exceeding the equivalent of US$10,000 must be conducted through the formal foreign exchange market. The CBC authorizes commercial banks to issue credit cards. Card users must pay balances due for purchases abroad with their own resources. However, under the concept of extraor- dinary expenditures, an individual may acquire foreign exchange from the formal foreign exchange market without declaring the purpose. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 215 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Capital transactions in the domestic market exceeding US$10,000 or its equivalent must be conducted through the formal foreign exchange market. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase securities freely. To benefit from special taxation (under De- cree-Law No. 600), nonresidents may invest through foreign investment funds (FICEs), which are formed by foreign capital and administered by a stock firm established in Chile. These are subject to prudential regulations, including a five-year minimum holding period, and to a profit tax of 10%. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may sell shares and other instruments from abroad through the Bolsa offshore mechanism. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Through the Bolsa offshore mechanism, a nonresident may sell bonds and other instru- ments from abroad. Nonresidents may sell shares, bonds, and other instruments from abroad through the Bolsa offshore mechanism. To operate in the domestic f inanc ial market, a company must be registered. Funds entering Chile through the FICE are subject to a minimum holding period of five years. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may sell shares, bonds, and other instruments from abroad through the Bolsa offshore mechanism. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Banks and third parties may trade forward contracts involving Chilean currency with for- eign counterparts (either the peso or the inflation-indexed Unidad de Fomento). Banks may hedge credit risk associated with their fixed-income portfolio and commercial loans with residents, using credit derivatives, for both local and foreign currency. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreigners must establish residence in order to sell or issue derivatives locally. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Pension f u n ds and insu rance companies are not allowed to engage in international trade lend ing. Commercial credits may be contracted with foreign banks and f inanc ial entities, subject to a tax of 4% on interest if loans are provided by a financial institution, or a tax of 35% if the creditor is not a f in an c i al ins t i tu t ion. By residents to nonresidents Operations by insurance companies, pension funds, and institutional investors are subject to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 216 CHILE To residents from nonresidents The regulations governing commercial credits apply. prudential regulations. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Banks are not required to obtain prior authorization from the CBC to issue guarantees on external credits received by domestic enterprises, f inanc ial credits, the issuance of docu- ments abroad, or forward contracts with authorized agents abroad. Foreigners may invest freely in Chile. Investments over the equivalent of US$1 million may be made under Decree-Law No. 600 and represent a contract with the government. In th is case, the investor may choose between the general income tax rate and the guaranteed p ro f it tax rate of 42% for 10 years. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Investments made under Decree-Law No. 600 must be he ld in Chile for at least one year to be e l ig ib le for repatriation. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) No. No. Banks and f inanc ial institutions may engage in the following: borrowing funds from the pub l ic through time deposits and savings; granting mortgage loans and syndicated loans to residents; purchasing bonds issued abroad by residents; and issuing deposits, bonds, and promissory notes abroad that may be traded domestically or abroad. Some of these operations may take place between local and foreign banks. Banks are also authorized to trade and issue derivatives in currencies, based on exchange and interest rates; and on commercial credits, using forwards, futures, and swaps; and to acquire options and credit derivatives. Nonbank f inanc ial institutions are not allowed to maintain accounts abroad. Banks may hold foreign time deposits within the margin for financial investment abroad. External cur- rent accounts are not controlled. Banks are allowed to deal in debt instruments and sovereign bonds issued abroad. Banks may acquire stocks of foreign banks or establish branches abroad with the authorization of the Superintendency of Banks. Banks may invest a max imum of 40% of their Tier I plus Tier II capital in a f f i l ia ted companies, corporations that support their line of business, or banks of a given country, and are authorized to extend loans to nonresident natural persons abroad. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks may grant loans or purchase securities denominated or expressed in foreign exchange, provided they remain w i th in the open position limits. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Yes. Interest rate controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks There are statutory ceilings on interest rates for both domestic and foreign currency loans. Those ceilings are defined as one-and-a-half times the average market interest rate of the previous month. Foreign f inanc ial investments by commercial banks are subject to prudential regulations. In banks by nonresidents Banks are allowed to issue CDs and bonds abroad. Open foreign exchange pos i t ion l im i ts The l im it is 20% of Tier I and Tier II capital and reserves. This margin includes derivative and spot instruments, foreign investment, and assets and l iab i l i t ies issued abroad or denominated in foreign exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 217 On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Investments by institutional investors are subject to prudential regulations. There are five types of pension funds —A, B, C, D, and E. The maximum amount that each type may invest in foreign currency without hedging against risk is 40%, 25%, 20%, 15%, and 10% of total resources, respectively. Effective January 1, 2003, each type A, B, C, and D pension fund may invest up to 1% of its assets in an FICE, and its investment may not exceed 1% of the FICE's assets in aggregate. Effective January 1, 2003, insurance compa- nies may invest abroad up to 20% of their technical reserves and risk-adjusted capital; this l im it was increased to 25% on May 29, 2003, and to 30% on March 1, 2004. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. Changes During 2003 Capital transactions Provisions specific to institutional investors January 1. Insurance companies were allowed to invest abroad up to 20% of their technical reserves and risk-adjusted capital. January 1. Type A, B, C, and D pension funds were allowed to invest up to 1% of their assets in an FICE, and their investment may not exceed 1% of the FICE's assets in aggregate. May 29. The amount that insurance companies may invest abroad was increased to 25% from 20% of their technical reserves and risk-adjusted capital. Changes During 2004 Capital transactions Provisions specific to institutional investors March L The amount that insurance companies may invest abroad was increased to 30% from 25% of their technical reserves and risk-adjusted capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position as of May 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the People's Republic of China is the Chinese renminbi. The currency unit is the yuan. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments The exchange rate of the renminbi is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) of the People's Bank of China (PBC) announces a basic rate for the renminbi against the Hong Kong dollar, the U.S. dol- lar, the euro, and the yen, based on the weighted average exchange rate that prevailed in foreign exchange transactions on the previous day. In the interbank foreign exchange mar- ket, daily changes in the value of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar are limited to 0.3% on either side of the basic rate, as announced by the PBC. The daily movement of the ren- minbi against the Hong Kong dollar and the yen is limited to 1% on either side of the basic rate (daily movements beyond this limit must be reported). The U.S. dollar spot exchange bid-offer rate between designated foreign exchange banks and their customers may not exceed 0.17% of the basic rate, and those for Hong Kong dol- lars, yen, and euros may not exceed 1% of the basic rate; under specific circumstances, these limits may be exceeded, subject to SAFE notification. Banks may set limits on the fluctuations of other currencies on their own, but the bid-offer spread may not exceed 0.5%. The selling rate for cash and the spot exchange rate must be the same for all currencies. The spot buying rate for Hong Kong dollars, Macau patacas (from March 10, 2003), and U.S. dollars may not exceed 0.75% of the mid-rate for the spot exchange bid-offer rate, and the spot buying rate for euros and yen must not exceed 1% of the mid-rate for the spot ex- change bid-offer rate. The buying rate for other currencies in cash may not exceed 2.5% of the mid-rate for the spot exchange bid-offer rate. No. No. Forward exchange operations by the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, Agricul- tural Bank of China, Bank of China, and China Construction Bank are allowed with respect to current transactions, repayment of foreign exchange loans obtained abroad and registered with the SAFE, and other foreign exchange receipts and payments approved by the SAFE with a maximum maturity of 365 days. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The currencies used in transactions are determined by the respective contracts. Effective October 1, 2003, specially designated border trading companies that carry out trade with neighboring countries may settle bills and clear remittances using the currency of the neighboring country, in addition to yuan and any convertible currencies. The renminbi may be converted only for trading and tourism purposes. On November 19, 2003, the PBC and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) announced that the PBC would provide clearing arrangements for banks in Hong Kong SAR that provide personal renminbi deposits, exchange services, bank cards, and remittance services. Effective 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 219 January 18, 2004, mainland residents may use personal renminbi-denominated bank cards issued by ma in land banks to pay for tourism expenses in Hong Kong SAR and for withdrawing small sums in Hong Kong. Effective February 25, 2004, participating Hong Kong banks may open renminbi-denominated accounts, accept renminbi deposits, provide exchange services between renm inbi and Hong Kong dollars, and effect renminbi remittances for resident individuals and designated commercial customers in Hong Kong SAR. Use of foreign exchange among residents The use of foreign exchange for pricing or settlement of transactions among residents is prohibited. Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) No. The SAFE is responsible for foreign exchange administration, under the direction of the PBC. Measures have been taken to freeze the accounts and assets of listed individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Yes. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Gold is subject to a system of centralized purchase and distribution. Mining companies must sell the ir gold to the PBC, and companies that use gold must buy it from the PBC. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Approval is required for enterprises to produce, process, or engage in the production, proc- essing, sale, or resale of gold products. Possession of gold or silver by individuals is subject to state controls. No organization or individual may appraise or use gold or silver. Private trading is prohibited. Imports of gold require PBC approval. Gold may be imported by individuals for reasonable personal use only. Exports are subject to quota controls. The exportation of domestic currency is limited to Y 6,000. Residents and nonresidents are allowed to take their personal, legitimately held foreign currencies abroad, as follows: (1) except in special cases, residents may take foreign cur- rencies in cash form up to US$10,000 or its equivalent abroad; (2) amounts exceeding US$10,000 may be taken abroad in the form of traveler's checks or other payment certifi- cates; (3) residents taking foreign currencies up to US$2,000 abroad do not need to apply for a License for Carrying Foreign Currencies Abroad (LCFCA) (on October 1, 2003, this was increased to US$5,000). For amounts exceeding US$5,000 (previously, US$2,000) but less than US$10,000 (previously, US$4,000), a bank-issued LCFCA is required, and for amounts exceeding US$10,000, the authenticity of the transaction must be verified by the SAFE after an LCFCA has been obtained; and (4) nonresidents taking foreign currencies up to US$5,000 abroad do not need an LCFCA, but for amounts exceeding US$5,000 but less than US$10,000, a bank-issued LCFCA is required, and for amounts of more than US$10,000, the authenticity of the transaction must be verified by the SAFE after an LCFCA has been obtained. Residents and nonresidents may import up to Y 6,000. Residents and nonresidents importing more than the equivalents of US$2,000 and US$5,000, respectively, must declare the amounts to customs. Effective October 1, 2003, the former l im it was increased to US$5,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 220 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts All domestic and foreign-funded enterprises approved by the governmental department concerned and that have foreign operating rights, or that have foreign exchange earnings from current transactions, may open current foreign exchange accounts. Foreign exchange funds in these accounts may be used for current account payments and authorized capital payments with the approval of the SAFE. Specified capital foreign exchange accounts may be used as a depository for capital account receipts. Natural persons may open foreign currency savings accounts with authorized banks. On September 1, 2003, the SAFE allowed domestic companies to retain foreign currency revenue from overseas contracted projects, overseas shipping and commissions and international bidding projects in foreign exchange accounts. Previously, up to 20% of their foreign exchange revenues (based on the previous year's foreign exchange earnings) could be retained in temporary foreign exchange accounts. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Agencies requiring foreign exchange may convert domestic currency into foreign currency at authorized banks by presenting valid proof and commercial documents when external payments are made. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresident individuals staying in China for a short time may open foreign currency sav- ings accounts. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements For advance payments, importers must present to the bank an import contract and other relevant documents regarding the settlement of payment obligations, including invoices and letters of guarantee. Effective October 23, 2003, the minimum amount for which guarantees are needed for purchases of foreign exchange from a foreign exchange dealer for advance import payments is the equivalent of US$200,000 (previously, US$30,000). Advance import deposits The regulations governing advance payment requirements apply. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Documentary evidence (including import contracts, import exchange payment verification forms, customs declarations, invoices, and shipping documents) is required for importers to purchase foreign exchange or to make payments from a foreign exchange account. If the imported product is subject to quota or other controls, an import permit must also be pro- vided. If the product is subject to automatic registration, a completed automatic registration license must also be provided. To engage in foreign trade, all enterprises must obtain approval from the Foreign Trade Administration and register with the Administration for Industry and Commerce, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 221 Imports of all secondhand garments, poisons, narcotic drugs, foodstuffs, medicines, ani- mals, and plants that are inconsistent with Chinese regulations are restricted or prohibited. In addition, the importation of the fo l low ing items is prohibited: weapons; ammun i t ion and explosives; manuscripts; printed and recorded materials; and f i lms that are deemed to be detrimental to Chinese po l i t ica l, economic, cultural, or moral interests. Yes. Yes. An agreement is in effect for agricultural cooperation with the United States, which sets resolutions on the quarantine of wheat, citrus fruit, and meat between the two countries. There are four categories of import tar iffs: the MFN tar iff rate, the treaty tariff rate, the preferential tariff rate, and the ordinary tariff rate. The MFN rate applies to imports from WTO member countries or from countries or regions that have established an MFN agree- ment with China. The treaty tariff rate applies to imports from parties that have concluded a regional trade agreement with a preferential tariff clause. The preferential tariff rate applies to imports from countries or regions that have signed a special preferential tariff agreement with China. The ordinary tar iff rate applies to all other imports. The following products are subject to state trading: wheat, maize, rice, crude and refined oil, vegetable oil, cotton, and tobacco and tobacco products. Imports of acrylic fibers, natural rubber, plywood, steel products, and wool are subject to designated trading. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Effec t ive May 1, 2004, all enterprises authorized to conduct current account transactions may retain foreign exchange equivalent to 30% or 50% (previously, 20%) of their current account foreign exchange earnings in the previous year; enterprises that had no current foreign exchange income may retain up to the equivalent of US$100,000; the rema in ing amounts must be surrendered to authorized banks. Also effective this date, qua l ify ing enterprises are def ined as those that are authorized by a competent department on the basis of having registered foreign operating rights, current foreign exchange income, or foreign exchange income for a designated purpose, such as donations, aid, or international postal remittances. Previously, these were defined as (1) those that have annual export foreign exchange earnings in excess of the equivalent of US$2 million and foreign exchange expenditures in excess of US$200,000; (2) foreign trading companies whose annual export-import volume exceeds US$30 m i l l ion, whose capital exceeds Y 10 m i l l ion, whose export foreign exchange receipt rates are at least 95%, and whose document presentation rates are at least 80%; and (3) production-type enter- prises authorized to engage in export-import operations whose annual export-import vol- ume and capital exceed US$10 m i l l ion and Y 30 m i l l ion, respectively. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Product quotas are allocated through a b idd ing system. Export duties are levied on 36 products. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Nontrade payments by fore ign-funded enterprises (FFEs) and domestic-funded enterprises (DFEs) are subject to the same provisions. Resident individuals are subject to different regulations. Effec t ive March 6, 2003, where not otherwise regulated, transactions up to the equivalent of US$50,000 may be effected by designated foreign exchange banks; transac- tions up to US$500,000 require authorization by a local foreign exchange bureau; and those ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 222 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Trade-related payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test exceeding US$500,000 require SAFE authorization. In the case of multinational corpora- tions, effective July 30, 2003, invisible transfers are performed directly on the basis of documentation at designated foreign exchange banks. The payment of commissions for export business is allowed in accordance with export contracts and commission contracts. Prior approval of the SAFE is required for contracts with an unstated commission exceeding 2% of the contract amount and a stated commis- sion exceeding 5% of the contract amount and with commissions exceeding the equivalent of US$10,000. All commissions under these limits may be settled directly through a bank. Proof of transaction is required for all trade-related payments. SAFE approval is required for amounts exceeding the prescribed limits for commissions. Traders may pay directly at authorized banks by presenting valid proof and commercial b i l ls. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits The foreign exchange requirements for governmental departments, public service units, and enterprises are provided according to the limits prescribed by the MOF. There are no re- strictions on payments for travel of staff of FFEs. For residents traveling abroad as members of a tour group, overseas group fees may be contracted and remitted abroad by touring agencies but cash needs are to be purchased by the individuals. Verification and approval of the SAFE are required for amounts exceeding the specified limits. Travel by staff of other institutions is subject to the following limits: (1) if travel is for six months or less, the limit is the equivalent of US$3,000; (2) if travel is for a period exceed- ing six months, the limit is US$5,000. Amounts exceeding these limits are allowed, pend- ing retroactive approval upon their return to China. For border travel, the limit is the equivalent of US$100 a person a day, up to a maximum of US$500 a person a trip. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Quantitative limits Residents may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$3,000 for payments of medicines and medical equipment abroad; for larger amounts, they must submit appro- priate documentation to the SAFE for verification. Effective October 1, 2003, persons paying for their own studies abroad, regardless of level, are allowed a one-time purchase of foreign exchange of up to the equivalent of US$20,000. Previously, the one-time purchase was permitted only for studies at the college level or higher. Larger amounts require SAFE verification. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Proof of earnings and tax clearance are required. Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test For transfers in payment of subscriptions and membership fees, a proof of transaction is required. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign grants and financial aid received by domestic establishments, and foreign exchange earmarked for external payments as prescribed by aid contracts, may be maintained with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 223 the approval of the SAFE. Foreign embassies and consulates, representative offices of in- ternational organizations, affiliates of foreign juridical persons, resident persons, and for- eign expatriates may retain their foreign exchange. Corporate enterprises may retain foreign exchange earnings from current account transactions, provided the retained amount does not exceed the maximum l im it allowed by the SAFE. Balances, if any, must be sold to au- thorized banks. The purchase and sale of foreign exchange by corporate enterprises are included in the banking surrender system. Effective April 1, 2004, surrender of foreign exchange by individual residents exceeding the equivalent of US$50,000 (previously, US$20,000) requires submission of documenta- tion to the local SAFE for verification. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Qualified foreign institutional investors (QFIIs) may invest domestically in A shares, sub- ject to the fo l low ing restrictions: (1) a QFII must have minimum experience in the industry (5 years for fund manager; 30 years for insurance companies) and the equivalent of at least US$10 billion in assets under management in the latest financial year and must be clear of any major irregularities in its home market over the past three years; (2) a QFII that is a bank must have assets that rank it among the top 100 internationally in the latest financial year; (3) a QFII that is an insurance or a securities company must have minimum paid-up capital of the equivalent of US$1 billion; and (4) ownership of any Chinese company listed on the Shanghai or Shenzhen stock exchange by a QFII may not exceed 10%, and the total shares owned by QFIIs in a single Chinese company may not exceed 20%. QFIIs must set up special renminbi accounts with domestic banks and use the services of domestic securi- ties companies.. Closed-end QFIIs may only remit capital after three years, in installments of no more than 20% of the total each time, at intervals of one month or more. Other QFIIs may only remit capital after one year, in installments of no more than 20% of the total, and at intervals of three months or longer. The face value of B shares is denominated in U.S. dollars or Hong Kong dollars. These shares are listed on the Chinese Securities Exchange and may be bought by foreign and domestic investors. Domestic investors may purchase B shares with new or existing foreign currency deposits. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are limited to B shares. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Overseas listed domestic companies may repurchase the shares of their company that were issued abroad, with prior approval from the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), SAFE verification of the source of the funds, and authorization from the SAFE for remittance abroad. Prior approval by the CSRC is required for overseas listed domestic companies (OLDCs) and China-held foreign listed companies (CHFLCs; i.e., companies registered and listed abroad and controlled by Chinese shareholders) to sell shares abroad. Proceeds of OLDCs must be repatriated w i th in 30 days and either kept in the OLDC's foreign exchange accounts or converted into renminbi (with SAFE approval). These proceeds may be re- tained abroad only with SAFE approval. After deducting any related charges, foreign exchange funds earned by the domestic equity ho ld ing units of OLDCs and CHFLCs through sales of listed shares, assets, or liquidity of the company must be repatriated within 30 days of receipt. After repatriation, the foreign exchange must be surrendered, following SAFE approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 224 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. These transactions are not permitted. Banks authorized by the China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC) may purchase foreign bonds but must use their own foreign exchange funds and are not permitted to purchase foreign exchange for this purpose. Following authorization by the State Development Planning Commission and the SAFE, applications for these transactions are to be submitted to the State Council for Examination for approval. Foreign exchange earnings from bond flotation must be repatriated. Nonresidents are not allowed to purchase money market instruments. Nonresidents are not allowed to sell or issue money market instruments. The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. These transactions are subject to SAFE approval. The regulations governing money market instruments apply. These transactions are not allowed. These transactions are not allowed. Only f inanc ial institutions that are approved by the CBRC and carry out foreign exchange trading operations for their own account or on behalf of customers may purchase and sell derivative instruments without prior SAFE approval. The purpose of such purchases or sales may be for hedging of risk only. Speculative trading is not permitted. Nonfmancial institutions may engage in such activities through financial institutions as part of approved operations without prior approval. Prior SAFE approval must be obtained if these transac- tions are required to be made with foreign institutions. Trading may be done directly with foreign institutions for derivatives transactions under the provisions of the debt of FFEs without approval; however, debt provision modification procedures and the corresponding external debt modification registration formalities must be completed after the fact. The regulations governing purchases apply. Purchases of foreign exchange for advance repayment of foreign debt require SAFE authorization. Purchases of foreign exchange to make advance repayments of loans require SAFE authorization. Purchases of foreign exchange to make advance repayments of loans must conform to the following guidelines: (1) debt examination, approval, and registration requirements must be satisfied in accordance with regulations; (2) the loan contract must contain an advance repayment clause and both the creditor and the debtor must agree to the advance repayment; (3) the debtor must submit an application to purchase foreign exchange for an advance foreign debt repayment; and (4) owned foreign exchange must be used first, and foreign exchange may be purchased only when all owned foreign exchange is exhausted. Financial institutions authorized by the CBRC may lend to overseas institutions or contract overseas credits. Medium- and long-term international commercial borrowing by Chinese institutions must be incorporated in the state plan for the use of foreign capital and undergo transaction- based examination. Financial institutions permitted to engage in foreign borrowing may conduct short-term foreign borrowing with maturities of one year or less w i th in the balance approved by the SAFE. Specific transaction-based approval is not required. All foreign borrowing must be registered with the SAFE. Forward LCs with a maturity of more than 90 days but less than one year are included in the category of short-term credits, while those exceeding one year are included in medium- and long-term international commercial loans. FFEs may borrow from nonresidents without obtaining approval but must register the bor- rowing with the SAFE. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 225 If the guidelines for purchases of foreign exchange to make advance repayments for loans are satisfied, the debtor may submit an application to the SAFE for the purchase. Renminbi credits extended by banks to domestic institutions may be used only for productive purposes and may not be used to purchase foreign exchange for debt-service payments. When designated domestic Chinese foreign exchange banks provide renminbi loans to FFEs, they may accept credit guarantees from foreign banks and foreign institutions or foreign exchange collateral from the FFEs. The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Prior SAFE approval is required for financing guarantees provided by domestic Chinese banks and all guarantees provided by other institutions (with the exception of foreign- funded domestic f inanc ial institutions and wholly foreign-owned enterprises). Prior ap- proval is not required for bank-provided foreign non fmanc ing guarantees, although external guarantee registration must be completed for all foreign guarantees. Specific transaction- based approval by the SAFE is required when a guarantee is exercised. Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents FFEs may accept guarantees from foreign institutions. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment A three-tier classification system is in effect, def in ing activities in which foreign exchange investment is encouraged, restricted, or banned. Outward direct investment is permitted only after examination of the source of the foreign exchange funds, approval of the authorities concerned with foreign direct investment, and completion of offshore investment foreign exchange registration. Foreign direct investment that does not involve foreign exchange purchases or outward foreign exchange remittance does not require examination of the source of the foreign exchange funds. Foreign exchange for strategic foreign investment, processing of customer-supplied materials, and foreign aid projects is guaranteed, and priority is given to foreign investment activities, such as export promotion, scientific research and development, market development, and natural resource development. Effective November 1, 2003, in some provinces and regions, the l im it on outward investment is the equivalent of US$3 m i l l ion (previously, US$1 million). Nonresidents are free to invest in China as long as they meet requirements under Sino- foreign joint-venture laws and other relevant regulations, and are approved by the Ministry of Commerce. There is no restriction on the inward remittance of funds as far as exchange control is concerned. For environmental and security reasons, inward direct investment in some industries is prohibited. Prior approval from the original review and approval department is required for liquidation. SAFE verification is required to purchase foreign exchange to remit funds belonging to foreign investors after liquidation. Controls on real estate transactions The regulations governing direct investment apply. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. With SAFE approval, foreign exchange may be purchased for remittance abroad using renminbi obtained by nonresidents from the sale of commercial real estate purchased origi- nally with foreign exchange. Foreign exchange may not be purchased using renminbi ob- tained from the sale of commercial real estate purchased originally using renminbi. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 226 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA G if ts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants In case a resident's directly related family member abroad encounters illness, death, or unexpected disaster, the resident is allowed to purchase and remit abroad up to US$1,000 or its equivalent, once the resident has valid, notarized proof of the emergency or proof from the Chinese embassy or consulate; an application from the patient's local agency (work un i t) or prescription from the hospital; the relevant documents from the resident's work un it (if without a work unit, from the local subdistrict office or the people's govern- ment department above the town level); and supporting documents related to foreign ex- change payments. As for other foreign exchange purchases, amounts of up to US$500 or its equivalent may be provided by the bank. For a one-time purchase of foreign exchange for private purposes of an amount exceeding the stipulated standard and up to US$50,000, application to the local SAFE office against specific documented proof is required; after verification by the local SAFE office, the foreign exchange needed may be purchased from the bank and remitted or taken abroad. When a one-time purchase exceeds the stipulated standard or US$50,000, the transaction must be reported to the SAFE by the local SAFE off ice for verification before the bank provides the foreign exchange. Remittances from a resident's domestic foreign currency account for payments for gifts, donations, inheritances, or legacies, for a one-time amount of less than US$10,000 or its equivalent, may be made directly through a bank. For amounts of more than US$10,000 but less than US$50,000, application to the local SAFE office is required with stipulated docu- mented proof, and, after verification by the local SAFE office, remittances may be made through a bank. For amounts of more than US$50,000, the transaction must be reported to the SAFE by the local SAFE office for verification before the bank may remit the foreign exchange. Transfers of a resident's domestic foreign currency cash or deposits from a resident's for- eign currency cash account for payments of gifts, donations, inheritances, or legacies, for a one-time amount of less than US$2,000 or its equivalent, may be made directly by a bank. For amounts of more than US$2,000 but less than US$10,000, application to the local SAFE office is required, with specific documented proof and corresponding customs decla- ration documents, before remittances may be made by a bank. For amounts exceeding US$10,000, the transaction must be reported to the SAFE by the local SAFE office for verification before the bank may remit the foreign exchange. If the foreign currency income from donations or legacies needs to be paid in foreign cur- rency cash or converted into renminbi and if the one-time amount is less than US$10,000 or its equivalent, payments may be made directly by banks. When the amount paid from a foreign exchange accounts exceeds US$10,000 but not US$200,000 or if the amount con- verted exceeds US$10,000 but not US$50,000, relevant documentary proof must be pro- vided to the banks. For inherited foreign currency, the required documentation includes proof of identification and authenticity, a notarized statement, and proof of tax clearance abroad. For household use of foreign currency, proof of identification, authenticity, and kinship are required. For foreign currency donations, proof of identification and authentic- ity and a donation agreement are needed. Banks may make the payments after verifying the documentary proof and recording the transaction. When the amount paid from a foreign exchange account exceeds the equivalent of US$200,000 or the conversion amount exceeds US$50,000, application to the local SAFE office is required with documentary proof, and after verification of authenticity by the local SAFE office, payments may be made through banks. For amounts exceeding US$200,000, application to the local SAFE office is re- quired with documentary proof, and the transaction must be reported to the SAFE by the local SAFE off ice for verification before the bank may remit the foreign exchange. Routine foreign exchange revenues, inc lud ing retirement and pension funds, may be remit- ted abroad. Funds fa l l ing under capital items, such as proceeds from selling residential property, may not be converted into foreign exchange for remittance abroad; rent income, however, may be converted for remittance abroad. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions The l im i ts and restrictions stated below are set by the HKMA for prudential reasons only. On November 19, 2003, a memorandum of understanding between the HKMA and the CBRC to share supervisory information on banks operating in mainland China and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 227 Hong Kong SAR and to ensure that parent banks maintain effective control over their cross-border branches and subsidiaries came into effect. Effective January 1, 2004, under the Closer Economic Partnership Arrangement: (1) the asset requirement for Hong Kong SAR-incorporated banks to open branches in ma in land Ch ina was reduced to US$6 b i l l ion from US$20 billion; (2) the authorities lifted the requirement for setting up a representative office in mainland China before a Hong Kong SAR bank establishes a joint-venture bank or joint-venture finance company in mainland China; and (3) for mainland China branches of Hong Kong SAR banks to apply to conduct renm inbi business, the minimum number of years of business operations in mainland China required of the banks was reduced to two years from three years. Borrowing abroad The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Registration with the SAFE is required for domestic banks to open foreign exchange ac- counts abroad. Domestic nonbank f inanc ial institutions and nonfmancial enterprises require prior approval by the SAFE. The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Lending is subject mainly to review of qualifications by the PBC and to asset-liability ratio requirements. Borrowers must register the transaction ex post with the SAFE and must obtain a permit from the SAFE to repay the principal. Effective January 1, 2003, SAFE registration and SAFE permission to repay the principal are not required for residents to borrow foreign exchange from domestic Chinese f inanc ial institutions. However, creditors must submit the regular loan registration to the SAFE and report the principal and interest repayment status. Securities denominated in foreign currency are not currently issued. D ifferent reserve requirements apply to deposits in renm inbi and in foreign currency. A reserve requirement of 6% applies to renminbi deposits of Chinese-funded banks and for- eign-funded banks. A reserve requirement of 2% applies to foreign exchange deposits of Chinese-funded banks. D ifferent reserve requirements apply to foreign exchange deposits of foreign-funded banks —for deposits with maturities of less than three months, the re- quirement is 5%; for deposits with maturities of three months or more, the requirement is 3%. Required and excess reserves on renminbi deposits are remunerated at an annual rate of 2.07%. Reserves on foreign currency are not remunerated. The ratio of all liquid foreign exchange capital to all liquid foreign exchange liabilities may not be less than 60%. The ratio of the credit balance for a single borrower to a bank's net capital may not exceed 10%. Bank equity investment should not exceed the d ifference between bank capital and manda- tory paid-in capital. Nonbank f inanc ial institutions' total equity investment (excluding trust accounts) should not exceed the difference between their capital and mandatory paid-in capital. Investment in foreign securities other than equities on foreign securities markets by banks is subject to quarterly approval by the PBC. In banks by nonresidents PBC approval is required. Open foreign exchange position limits For f inanc ial institutions trading foreign exchange on their own behalf, the daily total amount traded (total open foreign exchange position) should not exceed 20% of the foreign exchange working capital. As authorized by the highest level of management, f inanc ial institutions trading foreign exchange on their own behalf may retain a small amount of overnight open position, but this should not exceed 1% of the foreign exchange working capital or foreign exchange operating funds. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 228 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. No. Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Imports and import payments Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on direct investment Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2003 March 10. Banks' spot buying rates for Macau patacas could not exceed 0.75% of the spot mid-rate. October 1. Specially designated border trading companies that carry out trade with neighboring countries were allowed to settle b i l ls and clear remittances using the currency of the neighboring country, in addition to yuan or any convertible currencies. October 1. The maximum amount of foreign exchange that residents may export without an LCFCA was increased to the equivalent of US$5,000 from US$2,000, and the limit at which SAFE verification is required was increased to US$10,000 from US$4,000. October 1. The maximum amount of foreign currency that residents may import without declaration was increased to the equivalent of US$5,000 from US$2,000. November 19. The PBC and the HKMA announced that the PBC would provide clearing arrangements in renminbi for banks in Hong Kong SAR that provide personal renminbi deposits, exchange services, bank cards, and remittance services. September 1. The SAFE allowed domestic companies to retain foreign currency revenue from overseas contracted projects, overseas shipping and commissions, and international bidding projects in foreign exchange accounts. Previously, up to 20% of their foreign exchange revenues (based on the previous year's foreign exchange earnings) could be retained in temporary foreign exchange accounts. October 23. The minimum amount for which guarantees are needed for purchases of for- eign exchange for advance import payments was increased to the equivalent of US$200,000 from US$30,000. March 6. A new classification of payments came into effect whereby transactions up to the equivalent of US$50,000 may be effected by designated foreign exchange banks, transac- tions up to US$500,000 require authorization by a local foreign exchange bureau, and those exceeding US$500,000 require SAFE authorization. July 30. Multinational corporations were allowed to effect transfers for invisibles at desig- nated foreign exchange banks, subject to documentary requirements. October 1. All persons paying for their own studies abroad were allowed a one-time purchase of up to the equivalent of US$20,000. Previously, this was limited to persons pursuing degrees at the college level or higher. November 1. In some provinces and regions, the limit on outward investment was increased to the equivalent of US$3 m i l l ion from US$1 million. January 1. Registration with and permission from the SAFE to repay the principal were no longer required for residents to borrow foreign exchange from domestic Chinese financial institutions. November 19. A memorandum of understanding between the HKMA and the CBRC to share supervisory information on banks operating in mainland China and Hong Kong SAR and to ensure that parent banks maintain effective control over their cross-border branches and subsidiaries came into effect. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 229 Changes During 2004 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 18. Mainland residents were permitted to use renminbi-denominated bank cards to pay for tourism-related expenses in Hong Kong SAR. February 25. Participating banks in Hong Kong SAR were allowed to open renminbi- denominated accounts, accept renminbi deposits, provide exchange services between ren- minbi and Hong Kong dollars, and effect renminbi remittances for residents and designated commercial customers in Hong Kong SAR. Exports and export proceeds May 1. Qua l ify ing enterprises were allowed to retain the equivalent of 30% or 50% of the previous current account foreign exchange income (previously, 20%). May I. The def in i t ion of qua l i fy ing enterprises was modified to include enterprises with specifically allowed foreign exchange business. Previously, the list included enterprises with specific foreign exchange volume or capital amounts. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers April 1. The amount at which documentary evidence is required in order to surrender for- eign exchange was increased to the equivalent of US$50,000 from US$20,000. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. Under the Closer Economic Partnership Arrangement, (1) the asset requirement for Hong Kong SAR-incorporated banks to open branches in mainland China was reduced to US$6 billion from US$20 billion; (2) the requirement for setting up a representative off ice in mainland China before a Hong Kong SAR bank establishes a joint-venture bank or joint-venture finance company in mainland China was lifted; and (3) for mainland China branches of Hong Kong SAR banks to apply to conduct renminbi business, the minimum number of years of business operations on the mainland required of the banks was reduced to two years from three years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR (Position as of February 29, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Currency board arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong SAR is the Hong Kong dollar. Commemorative gold coins of HK$ 1,000 are legal tender, but are mostly kept by collectors and seldom circulate. The authorities do not maintain margins in exchange transactions. The currency board system in Hong Kong SAR, adopted on October 17, 1983, requires the monetary base to be backed by the reserve currency (i.e., the U.S. dollar) at the fixed ex- change rate of HKS7.80 to US$1. In Hong Kong SAR, the monetary base includes the amount of notes and coins issued, the balance of clearing accounts of banks held with the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) (i.e., aggregate balance), and the outstanding amount of exchange fund bills and notes. Operating under the rule-based currency board system, the HKMA has undertaken to issue additional exchange fund paper only when there is an inflow of funds, but the size of the program is allowed to expand along with the interest payments on such papers. The issue and redemption of Certificates of Indebtedness, which provide backing for bank- notes issued by the note-issuing banks, are required to be made against U.S. dollars at the fixed exchange rate of HKS7.80 to US$1. The issue and withdrawal of coins and govern- ment-issued notes are settled against the U.S. dollar at the same fixed rate. An explicit convertibility undertaking was made by the HKMA for banks to convert Hong Kong dollar balances in their clearing accounts into U.S. dollars at the fixed exchange rate of HK$7.75 per US$1. This convertibility rate moved by 1 pip (i.e., HK$0.0001) per calen- dar day un t i l, on August 12, 2000, it reached the rate of HK$7.80, where it has remained. No. No. The forward exchange markets operate on private sector initiatives, and the government has no off ic ial role. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. In accordance with the relevant regulations under the UN Sanctions Ordinance, UN sanc- tions are implemented by the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong SAR government on the instructions of the Ministry of Foreign Affa irs of the People's Republic of China. Payments arrears No. 230 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR 231 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Effective February 25, 2004, banks may accept renminbi deposits and offer renminbi- denominated accounts, provide foreign exchange and remittance services, and issue credit cards for resident individuals. Additional services are offered to certain businesses for the conversion of renminbi deposits into Hong Kong dollars. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts except for renminbi clearing services, which are not provided for renminbi accounts held by nonresidents. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of certain articles are subject to licensing control by the Director-General of Trade and Industry. Import licenses are required for reasons of public health, safety, environ- mental protection, security, or for the fu lf i l lment of Hong Kong SAR's international trade obligations. Imports of rice are also subject to licensing requirements. In compliance with the Montreal Protocol, the import of ozone-depleting substances is subject to licenses and quota arrangements. On January 1, 2003, quota arrangements on imports of rice were lifted. All imports are free of duty, although an excise tax for revenue and health purposes is lev- ied on imported and domestically produced cigarettes and other tobacco products, liquors, methyl alcohol, and hydrocarbon oils. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 232 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Exports of certain articles are subject to licensing control by the Director-General of Trade and Industry. Export licenses are required for reasons of public health, safety, environ- mental protection, security, and for the fu lf i l lment of Hong Kong SAR's international trade obligations. The export of ozone-depleting substances is subject to licensing requirements. Exports of certain textile articles to some importing countries are subject to quotas as a result of the quantitative restrictions maintained by these countries on textile exports from Hong Kong SAR. In accordance with the WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, tex- tile quotas will be abolished by 2005. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds No limitations apply on receipts from invisibles. Income from foreign sources, capital gains, distributions from trusts, and dividends is not taxed in Hong Kong SAR; interest income from domestic sources received by banks and corporations carrying on business in Hong Kong SAR is subject to a profits tax. Interest earned on bank deposits by individuals is not subject to the salary tax. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions No. Controls on capital and money market instruments No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. A license or an authorization is required for companies, whether incorpo- rated in Hong Kong SAR or elsewhere, to conduct banking, insurance, securities, and fu- tures dealings. Otherwise, all overseas companies are required only to register with the Companies Registry w i th in one month of establishing a business in Hong Kong SAR. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, Limited, which oversees the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, the Hong Kong Futures Exchange, and the Hong Kong Securities Clearing Com- pany, imposes disclosure and position limits on derivative products. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions No. No. No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR 233 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The limits and restrictions stated below are set by the HKMA for prudential reasons only. No distinction is made between local and overseas investments. Authorized institutions incorporated in Hong Kong SAR may not acquire shares worth more than 5% of the capital base of the institution at the time of acquisition without the approval of the HKMA. In addition, they may not acquire shares in aggregate worth more than 25% of the capital base of the institution. This restriction does not apply if the share capital (1) is held as security for fac i l i t ies granted; (2) was acquired through an underwrit- ing or subunderwriting contract for a period not to exceed seven days; or (3) was acquired through satisfaction of debts, in which case the share capital must be disposed of at the earliest suitable opportunity, but not later than 18 months after its acquisition. No authorized institution incorporated in Hong Kong SAR may purchase or hold any inter- est in foreign or domestic land to an aggregate value in excess of 25% of the capital base of the institution. This restriction does not apply to (1) land that is necessary for conducting the business of the institution or providing housing or amenities for its staff, subject to HKMA approval; (2) interest in land that was mortgaged to the institution to secure a debt due to the institution; (3) interest in land that accrues after the institution has come into possession of the land, provided that the interest be disposed of at the earliest suitable op- portunity, but not later than 18 months after acquisition. The aggregate holdings of share capital and interests in land, together with the outstanding amounts of all fac i l i t ies owned by directors (or related parties) of an authorized institution incorporated in Hong Kong SAR, may not at any time exceed 80% of the institution's capi- tal base. No person shall become a majority shareholder controller, a minority shareholder control- ler, or an indirect controller of an authorized institution incorporated in Hong Kong SAR without HKMA approval. Any person who becomes such a controller must no t i fy the HKMA w i th in 14 days. All authorized institutions are required to report to the HKMA their foreign currency posi- tions (including options) monthly. Locally incorporated institutions are required to report their consolidated foreign currency positions. The aggregate net overnight open position (calculated as the sum of net long/short positions of individual currencies) should not nor- ma l ly exceed 5% (and, in any event, not more than 15%) of the capital base of any institu- tion, and the net overnight open position in any individual currency should not exceed 10% of the capital base. For subsidiaries of foreign banks, when the parent bank consolidates the foreign exchange risk on a global basis and for which there is adequate home supervision, the HKMA may accept higher limits. For branches of foreign banks, the HKMA reviews and monitors their internal limits, which are usually set by their head offices and home supervisory authorities. In addition to these limits, locally incorporated institutions are required to provide regula- tory capital for foreign exchange risk such that their adjusted capital adequacy ratio (incor- porating market risk) is above the respective statutory minimum ratios. For the Mandatory Provident Fund (MPF) schemes, at least 30% of a constituent fund must be held in Hong Kong dollar-denominated currency investments, as measured by effective currency exposure. An MPF scheme may consist of one or more constituent funds, each with its own investment po l icy. A constituent fund may maintain a portfolio of direct in- vestment in equities, bonds, or other debt instruments or may invest in approved pooled investment funds, which may be in the form of un it trusts authorized by the Securities and Futures Commission or insurance policies issued by authorized insurers. A constituent fund may also invest in some other types of f inanc ial products, such as index-tracking collective investment schemes, subject to prior approval by the Mandatory Provident Fund Schemes Authority. There is no m in imum l im it on the amount that insurance companies may hold in invest- ments in locally issued securities. However, insurance companies carrying on direct general insurance business locally are required to maintain assets in Hong Kong to match their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 234 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA—HONG KONG SAR Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition liabilities from such insurance business. The form of assets is not limited to local securities and may be in the form of cash, bank deposits, or landed properties. Insurance companies with long-term foreign currency liabilities must enact prudential pro- visions to limit the effects of exchange rate changes on their asset base unless these liabili- ties are covered by adequate foreign currency holdings not subject to exchange risk. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Imports and import payments January 1. The quota arrangements on imports of rice were lifted. Changes During 2003 Changes During 2004 Resident accounts February 25. Banks were allowed to accept renminbi deposits, offer renminbi-denominated accounts, provide foreign exchange and remittance services, and issue credit cards for resi- dent individuals. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position as of April 30, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Colombia is the Colombian peso. Various commemorative gold coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax All foreign exchange transactions are conducted at a market-determined exchange rate. The Banco de la Republica (BR) quotes buying and selling rates for certain currencies on the basis of the buying and selling rates for the dollar in markets abroad. The Superintendency of Banks (SB) calculates a representative market exchange rate based on the weighted av- erage of purchases and sales effected by foreign exchange market intermediaries, excluding teller and forward transactions. The government purchases foreign exchange for all public debt payments and other expenditures under the same conditions as other authorized local intermediaries. Remittances of earnings by existing oil and non-oil foreign investments are subject to a 7% surtax, unless earnings are reinvested within five years. Effective December 29, 2003, the 3% withholding tax imposed on foreign exchange receipts from personal services and other transfers was eliminated. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are permitted to buy forward coverage against exchange rate risks with respect to foreign exchange debts in convertible currencies registered with the BR. Residents may also deal in over-the-counter forward swaps and options in dollars. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements The use of foreign exchange in internal transactions among residents is forbidden, with the exception of (1) transactions between and among mineral sector firms (e.g., coal, nickel, gas, and oil) and services-related firms; (2) sales of fuel used in international transportation; (3) purchases and sales of oil and gas by Ecopetrol and companies engaged in downstream and upstream activities; (4) authorized local insurance and reinsurance contracts; (5) charges related to international transport services and payments through special ac- counts registered with the BR; and (6) payments in foreign exchange between residents through foreign exchange accounts. Settlements between Colombia and the other LAIA countries are conducted through ac- counts maintained w i th in the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements On June 30, 2003, the reciprocal credit agreement maintained with China expired. Barter agreements and open accounts These are prohibited. Administration of control The MOF enforces ex post control and supervision over exchange transactions. The BR ma in ta ins accounting records on foreign investments in Colombia and debts abroad, and tracks transfers of profits, dividends, and commissions. The SB, the Superintendency of Financial Associations, and the Superintendency of Securities and Exchange (SSE) are also 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 236 COLOMBIA International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes responsible for the supervision of exchange regulations. Effective February 14, 2003, non- bank currency dealers are defined as those having the authority to buy and sell foreign cur- rencies but not to transfer currencies to third parties through the foreign exchange market; effective August 8, 2003, they are authorized to buy and sell traveler's checks. No. No. No. Except for the BR, all imports and exports of domestic and foreign currency must be ef- fected through authorized intermediaries. Travelers are allowed to take out or bring in do- mestic and foreign currency notes freely, but for amounts exceeding the equivalent of US$10,000, a customs declaration must be submitted. Effective February 14, 2003, imports and exports of other monetary instruments exceeding the equivalent of US$10,000 are also subject to customs declaration. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are restricted to travel agencies, international transport companies, compa- nies and stores in free trade areas, nonresident companies and their employees working in Colombia, diplomatic missions, and multilateral entities and their employees. Residents are allowed to hold these accounts freely, although BR registration is required for payments from these accounts for debt, investments, purchases of derivatives, and trade- related operations. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.r. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Financial institutions are authorized to receive current account deposits in foreign currency from nonresident individuals or firms. Balances in these accounts may be used without restriction, but quarterly reports, including balances, must be submitted to the BR and, effective February 14, 2003, also to the SB. Financial institutions are authorized to receive trade-related deposits into current accounts in foreign currency from nonresident individuals or firms. Effective December 17, 2003, balances in these accounts may be used without restriction; however, transactions in these accounts must be reported to the BR and the SB on a quarterly basis. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Importers may purchase foreign exchange directly from the exchange market. In addition, they may use the proceeds from deposits held abroad or make payments with international credit cards. Lending for import finance may be conducted by a foreign seller, a foreign financial institution, or an authorized intermediary only. Temporary imports may be fi- nanced under financial leasing for capital with a term of more than 12 months, as defined by the BR. Financing for import payments that are to be settled in more than six months is considered foreign debt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list COLOMBIA 237 All payments for imports must be conducted through authorized intermediaries or foreign exchange accounts with appropriate transport documentation and a customs declaration. Yes. There is a global free list applicable to all countries, and most imports are free of restric- tions. The Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism (MTIT), however, may administer li- censing requirements with respect to imports under special customs regimes, imports sub- ject to an t idump ing controls, and imports subject to compensatory policies or safeguards. Imports of the following goods are subject to licensing requirements: fresh, chilled, or fro- zen poultry and poultry offa l; prepared and preserved poultry; pharmaceutical and chemical products; ingredients for drug manufacture; weapons and ammunitions; second-hand tires; ropes and string; special airship vehicles; and warships. Import registrations are granted automatically, although import registrations by some public sector agencies are screened by the MTIT to determine whether local substitutes are avail- able. Both import licenses and registrations are generally valid for six months; import li- censes for capital goods are valid for 12 months. Import licenses may be extended once for three months, but licenses for specially produced capital goods or goods in short supply may be extended for successive three-month periods. Imports of chemical, biological, and nuclear arms; nuclear residue; toxic waste; and goods banned by international treaties to which the country is a signatory are prohibited. Other nontariff measures Controls are enforced for sanitary, health, or environmental protection purposes. Import taxes and/or tariffs With certain exceptions, imports are subject to the GET of the Andean Pact. The simple average tariff rate is approximately 10.7%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements All proceeds that are repatriated must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary within six months or maintained in foreign accounts. Exports of coffee are subject to the following provisos: (1) the minimum surrender price is the sales price shown on the export declaration; (2) exporters must pay a coffee contribu- tion on the basis of international market prices; (3) the National Coffee Committee— composed of the ministers of finance and agriculture and the managing director of the Co- lombian Coffee Growers' Association —has the right to establish a physical coffee contin- gent on the basis of international coffee prices; and (4) for export-type coffee, the National Coffee Committee must establish a domestic price expressed in pesos per cargo of 125 kilograms. If export proceeds are due more than 12 months after the export declaration, they are classified as credit operations. When payments are made in advance and delivery is due more than four months later they are classified as foreign debt and are subject to a deposit requirement. Documentation requirements Controls are enforced for sanitary, health, and environmental protection purposes. Export licenses Export taxes No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 238 COLOMBIA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Capital investments must be registered with the BR before profits may be repatriated. An- nual transfers of profits abroad and repatriations of capital are not restricted, but they may be temporarily restricted if international reserve holdings of the BR fall below the equiva- lent of three months' imports. The limit on contractual interest rates for public debt is determined by the BR, which sets the maximum applicable rate, taking several factors into account, including country risk and the international liquidity situation. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Effective August 15, 2003, external financing obtained by authorized intermediaries in connection with the simultaneous purchase and sale of financial titles is no longer required to be conducted through the exchange market. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase of 10% or more of the shares of a domestic financial institution requires the prior approval of the SB. Foreign investments in the form of placement of shares in a fund established to invest in the stock exchange and in debt papers issued by the financial sector are permitted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents All sales and issues are subject to the prior approval of the SSE. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents must establish an investment fund to purchase these securities. Purchases by nonresidents may not exceed 20% of the total issue, and the maturities of securities with a fixed interest rate must be less than two years. These transactions must be effected through an authorized intermediary or foreign exchange account. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require prior SSE approval. At least 20% of the total issue of debt securities by a nonresident must be in external markets. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions must be reported to the BR, and the issue requires the prior approval of the SSE. On money market instruments The regulations governing capital market securities apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing capital market securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents The issuance of securities index derivatives is allowed. Purchases are allowed only by foreign investors registered with the BR, and domestic risks must be covered in the local market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents COLOMBIA 239 Residents are allowed to make these transactions with professional brokers with a m in imum nominal portfolio value of the equivalent of US$1 billion. Commercial trade finance may be extended only by a nonresident seller, an authorized intermediary, or a foreign financial institution. Commercial loans for exports and services are subject to reserve requirements. Payments on commercial loans must be carried out through an authorized intermediary or a foreign exchange account. In the case of advance payments, if delivery is due more than four months later, the operation is classified as a foreign debt, and therefore is subject to a deposit requirement. These transactions are allowed through foreign financial institutions or authorized interme- diaries only and are subject to a deposit requirement. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Effective February 14, 2003, these instruments may be issued for purchases of raw petroleum and natural gas. By residents to nonresidents All payments with guarantees must be effected through an authorized intermediary or foreign exchange accounts. To residents from nonresidents These transactions must be reported to the BR and must be effected through authorized intermediaries or foreign exchange accounts, and are subject to deposit requirements. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment These investments must be registered with the BR. Investments by Colombian financial entities and their shareholders are subject to prior approval from the SB. All payments re- lated to foreign investment must be carried out through authorized intermediaries or foreign exchange accounts. These investments must be registered with the BR. Investments in Colombian financial entities are subject to prior approval from the SB. There is no ownership limit regarding foreign investment in Colombia. Investments in the defense sector and management of toxic and radioactive waste are prohibited. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital transactions Temporary controls on personal capital transactions may be imposed if the international reserve holdings of the BR fall below the equivalent of three months' imports. Loans To residents from nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Only foreign sellers, authorized intermediaries, and authorized foreign f inanc ial institutions may extend commercial trade f inanc ing. These must be channeled through an authorized intermediary or foreign exchange accounts registered with the BR. Effective February 14, 2003, public rediscount companies may maintain demand deposits abroad without registering with the BR. Deposits in foreign exchange are not subject to reserve requirements. Credit institutions may invest in f inanc ial assets abroad, with the exception of instruments issued by the ir subsidiaries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 240 COLOMBIA In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Purchases resulting in ownership exceeding 10% in a local financial institution require prior authorization of the SB. In the case of institutions undergoing privatization, the limit is 5%. The limits are +20% and -5% of net worth. The limit for net external assets in cash is 50% of net worth. Effective April 1, 2004, banks and foreign exchange market participants may not maintain negative positions in net external cash assets. Limits (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad Limits on portfolio investment by institutional investors are set according to the nature of the security, the type of funds, and the supervisory body. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Limits on portfolio investment by institutional investors are set according to the nature of the security, the type of funds, and the supervisory body. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws These is a l im it of 20% on portfolio investments by pension funds. n.r. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts December 29. The 3% w i thho ld ing tax that applies to foreign exchange receipts from per- sonal services and other transfers was abolished. February 14. Nonbank foreign currency dealers were defined as having the authority to buy and sell currencies but not to transfer currencies through the foreign exchange market to third parties. February 14. A customs declaration was required for the import or export of noncash monetary instruments exceeding the equivalent of US$10,000. June 30. The reciprocal credit agreement maintained with China expired. August 8. Nonbank foreign exchange dealers were authorized to buy and sell traveler's checks. February 14. Quarterly reports on nonresident accounts that are submitted to the central bank must be submitted to the SB also. December 17. Controls on the use of balances deposited in nonresident foreign currency accounts were l i f ted. August 15. External f inanc ing obtained by authorized intermediaries in connection with the simultaneous purchase and sale of f inanc ial titles was no longer required to be conducted through the exchange market. Nonresident accounts Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on credit operations February 14. Guarantees and sureties were permitted to be issued for purchase of raw petroleum and natural gas. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions February 14. Public rediscount companies were permitted to maintain demand deposits abroad without registering with the BR. Changes During 2004 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions April 1. Banks and foreign exchange market participants were prohibited from maintaining negative positions in net external cash assets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Comoros is the Comorian franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments The Comorian franc is pegged to the euro at CF 491.96775 per €1. Exchange rates are off i- cially quoted on the basis of the fixed rate of the Comorian franc for the euro and the Paris exchange market rates for other currencies. No. No. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is authorized by the Central Bank of the Comoros (CBC) and is provided to traders for up to three months by a commercial bank that is au- thorized to conduct this transaction. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As the Comoros is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settle- ments with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members) are made in euros or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usua l ly made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign Comorian franc accounts. Settlements in domestic currency abroad require prior approval of the CBC. Settlements abroad in banknotes are not allowed. Use of foreign exchange among residents The use of foreign exchange among residents is prohibited. Any foreign currency acquired must be converted at authorized f inanc ial institutions. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Comoros is a member of COMES A and RIFF. Yes. The Minister of Finance and Budget has sole authority in exchange control matters but has delegated certain exchange control powers to the CBC and to authorized banks. Exchange control is administered by the CBC. The Ministry of Finance and Budget supervises bor- rowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investment. With the exception of transactions relating to gold, the country's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its overseas departments and territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose banks of issue are linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (WAEMU and CAEMC members). Statistical reporting is required to monitor speculative transactions. International security restrictions No. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 242 COMOROS Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Imports and exports of gold bullion or coins require prior authorization. Exports and im- ports of articles containing gold are subject to declaration, but transfers of personal jewelry within the limit of 500 grams a person are exempt from such declaration. A limit of CF 500,000 applies to exports to countries outside the franc zone. Residents traveling to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may take out the equivalent of CF 500,000 in banknotes and any amount in other means of payment. Residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may take out any means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 500,000 a person a trip. Any amount in excess of these limits is subject to CBC approval, which is granted if supporting documentation is provided. Nonresident travelers may export the equivalent of CF 500,000 in banknotes and any means of payment issued abroad in their name without providing documentary justification. Other cases are authorized pursuant to the exchange regulations when supporting documents are produced. No controls apply to currencies imported from the Operations Account countries. Resident travelers are required to surrender all foreign exchange to an authorized interme- diary within one month of return. Nonresidents bringing in foreign currency banknotes are required to declare them to customs upon entry. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Prior authorization is required. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted if applicants meet the criteria for nonresident eligibility. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS 243 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Dom ic i l ia t ion requirements All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures The importation of most goods, except for those originating from member countries of the EU, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries, is subject to notification for statistical purposes. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs The importation of certain goods from all countries is prohibited for health or security reasons. Import duty rates are 20%, 30%, and 40% for general merchandise. The import duty rate for tobacco is 180% and that for spirits ranges between 200% and 250%. An administrative fee of 3% is levied on imports that are exempt from duty. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the expira- tion of the commercial contract. Proceeds must be sold immediately after repatriation to an authorized bank. No. Documentation requirements With a few exceptions, exports to any destination have no licensing requirements. Letters of credit Domiciliation Yes. All export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection is required by customs regulations. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Other export taxes No t if ica t ion is required for statistical purposes. Yes. A temporary export tax of 5% is levied on van i l la. Taxes are levied on specific luxury products. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. All other payments, except investment-related transfers, are subject to indicative limits or bona f ide tests. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 244 COMOROS Investment-related payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Repatriation of dividends and other earnings from nonresidents' direct investments is au- thorized and guaranteed under the Investment Code. Yes. Residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may take out any means of payment up to the equivalent of CF 500,000 a person a trip. Any amount in excess of these limits is subject to the prior approval of the CBC on submission of supporting documentation. Personal payments These transactions are authorized on presentation of supporting documents. Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. The limits for tourist and business travel apply. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from transactions with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries with respect to services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be repatriated within one month of the due date or date of receipt. Surrender requirements Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized bank. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital transfers between the Comoros and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from these countries are permitted freely. On capital market securities CBC authorization is required to effect these transactions. On money market instruments There is no local market in these instruments. On collective investment securities There is no local market in these instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits There is no local market in these instruments. By residents to nonresidents Credits must have a maximum maturity of 90 days. To residents from nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws COMOROS 245 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls relate to the approval of the underlying transactions, not to payments or receipts. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Settlement of debt is permitted upon presentation of supporting documentation. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending is permitted for economic activities in the Comoros. Such lending does not take place in practice. There is no local market for these securities. Yes. Yes. There is no local market for these transactions. n.a. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 10, 2003. Currency The currency of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is the Congo franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements The exchange rate of the Congo franc is determined by supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. The Central Bank of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (BCC) pub- lishes the daily exchange rate, which is based on the combined average of the amounts and rates applied in transactions, as reported by exchange bureaus and banks. The BCC, while observing the international reserves target in the monetary program, intervenes to smooth exchange rate fluctuations, but not against market fundamentals. Charges or commissions are not assessed on interbank market transactions. In their transactions with customers, commercial banks and financial institutions may charge an exchange commission not ex- ceeding 1%. The spread between the buying and selling rates for foreign banknotes set by the commercial banks and financial institutions in the foreign exchange market must not exceed 5%. A charge of 0.2% is levied on any exchange operation of authorized banks. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments from nonresidents to residents must be made in one of 23 convertible currencies whose rates are published daily by the BCC. Residents must make payments to nonresidents in one of the listed convertible currencies or by crediting nonresident accounts in Congo francs or in foreign currency. Settlements with the member countries of the CEPGL and the CEEAC are made in SDRs and through UCAC accounts established under arrangements between the BCC and the central banks of the countries concerned. These operations are, however, suspended at present. Balances on these UCAC accounts at the end of the settlement periods—each quarter for CEPGL countries and each month for CEEAC countries —are transferable into the currency stipulated by the creditor. Virtually all settlements (other than for reexports) with member countries of the CEEAC are effected through accounts with foreign correspondent banks after clearing by the Central African Clearing House through its account with the BCC. Current transactions between residents and nonresidents have been fully liberalized, but they still must be reported for statistical and monitoring purposes. Residents may use foreign exchange in transactions among themselves, except in conjunction with the following: residential rent, education, health-related expenditures, and electricity. The costs for these are fixed and may be paid only in domestic currency. Yes. The Democratic Republic of the Congo is a member of the COMES A. There are arrangements with Burundi and Rwanda. Payments are made through the SDR accounts of the BCC and the central banks of the other two countries. These arrangements, however, are currently inoperative, as is the clearing agreement of the COMES A. 246 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 247 Administration of control Foreign exchange transactions must be conducted through the BCC or authorized foreign exchange dealers. The BCC also supervises authorized banks and dealers, and regulates open foreign exchange positions. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Only nationals of the Democratic Republic of the Congo are allowed to purchase, transport, sell, or hold gold outside of areas covered by exclusive mining concessions. Foreign indi- viduals or corporate persons may do so only on behalf of, and for the account of, authorized marketing agencies. Exports of gold by authorized marketing agencies do not require prior authorization from the BCC. Resident and nonresident travelers must declare their foreign exchange holdings upon en- tering or exiting the country. Travelers exiting the country are authorized to carry an amount of foreign exchange not to exceed $10,000 or its equivalent, except if they are in international transit or on a service mission, in which case they are obliged to declare the amounts of foreign exchange. Yes. Yes. Yes. An un l im i ted amount of banknotes and other means of payment in foreign currency may be brought into the country, but amounts exceeding $ 10,000 or its equivalent must be declared. Resident Accounts These accounts are permitted and may be credited or debited for international transactions without restriction, may be sight or term accounts, may bear interest, and may be denomi- nated in any currency for which the BCC publishes exchange rates. Authorized banks are permitted to open accounts in foreign currency for residents and non- residents without prior approval, from the BCC. Yes. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited or debited for international transactions without restriction. Domestic currency accounts Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 248 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget There is a budget for imports by the government and the BCC. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance payments may not exceed 20% of the f.o.b. value of the imports. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Other Importers must obtain an import declaration from an authorized bank that is valid for 12 months. With a few exceptions, imports are subject to a preshipment inspection. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of imports must be verified and approved by the foreign agents of the Control Office of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Verification certificates are not required for import values (f.o.b.) of up to the equivalent of $2,500 a shipment. Rules for imports follow the generally accepted international payment modes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import-licensing requirements, other than those with respect to negative lists, are main- tained for statistical purposes only. Positive list Negative list Yes. Certain imports, including arms, explosives and ammunition, narcotics, materials contrary to public morals, and certain alcoholic beverages, are prohibited or require special authori- zation from the government. Open general licenses Global import licenses are authorized for imported goods that are in similar categories. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Export or reexport proceeds must be repatriated within 30 calendar days from the date of shipment. Proceeds from exports of gold and diamonds must be received at the bank within 10 days after the date of shipment. Proceeds from exports, inc lud ing consignment, must be repatriated as soon as the goods have been sold. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exporters must obtain an export declaration form from an authorized bank that is valid for three months. Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Yes. Yes. Yes. All exports require an inspection certificate issued by the Center for Congolese Expertise and Evaluation; coffee exports also require a quality certificate from the National Coffee Office. Export licenses Export-licensing requirements are for statistical purposes only. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 249 Without quotas Export taxes Yes. Export, turnover, and statistical taxes have been suspended. Taxes collected through the exchange system Other export taxes Yes. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers A declaration for payments on account for invisible transactions must be submitted. Trade-related payments Payment of commissions for representing foreign brand names is regulated. Indicative limits/bona fide test Indicative limits or bona fide tests are applied to payments of freight, insurance, and commissions. Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative Urnits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks. A declaration must be made for each transaction. For some operations, proceeds may be credited to a resident foreign currency account. Restrictions on use of funds Receipts credited to a resident's account in foreign exchange are conveyed to the authorized banks as needed by the account holders. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities On money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are controls on treasury b i ll transactions. Yes. Yes. No. Controls on credit operations Residents may borrow abroad to invest in the Democratic Republic of the Congo only. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 250 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Both outward and inward direct investments are permitted, subject to a license from a bank. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The repatriation of foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is permitted, subject to prior BCC authorization, only at the time of liquidation, nationaliza- tion, or partial or total transfer of shares. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Personal capital transfers are unrestricted, generally authorized, and do not require licenses. However, they must be carried out through the banking system. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Bridge loans require prior consent of the BCC. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Nonresident accounts in foreign exchange may not be in a debit position. Credit controls Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Nonresident accounts in foreign exchange may not be in a debit position. Credit controls Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits The ceiling on the foreign exchange position of each bank is authorized by the BCC. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement February 10. The Democratic Republic of the Congo accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the IMF Articles of Agreement. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Republic of Congo is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign curren- cies are also off ic ia l ly posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market. Payments to all coun- tries are subject to a commission of 1% (prior to January 1, 2004, 0.75%) (exclusive of VAT) with a m in imum charge of CFAF 75. Exempt from this commission are payments of the state, the Postal and Telecommunications Administration, and the BEAC member coun- tries; salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad; expenditures of official missions abroad; scholarships of persons studying or training abroad; payments made on behalf of individu- als for purchases of books and periodicals not intended for sale; and debt-service payments due from companies that have entered into an agreement with the Republic of Congo. No. No. There are no spot or forward exchange markets for the CFA franc. However, exporters and importers can always cover their positions on the Paris foreign exchange market. For- ward exchange cover must be denominated in the currency of settlement prescribed in the contracts. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because the Republic of Congo is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in CFA francs. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange regulations of member countries in the CAEMC are harmonized. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Payments to CAEMC countries are unrestricted. Settlements and investment transactions with all other foreign countries, however, are subject to control. The General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations (DGCRF) in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Budget (MEFB) supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Ex- change control is administered by the MEFB, which has delegated approval authority to the DGCRF. All exchange transactions with foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries. 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 252 REPUBLIC OF CONGO International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Off ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are free to hold gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry; however, to hold gold in any other form, the prior authorization of the MEFB is required. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency The prior authorization of the MEFB is required to import or export gold in any form. Exempt from the authorization requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the treasury or the BEAC and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no off ic ial exports of gold. There is no l im it on the amount of banknotes that residents or nonresidents may export from any member country of the BEAC area, but exports of banknotes outside the CAEMC area are prohibited. However, a limit of CFAF 100,000 is granted to resident travelers on their departure and arrival. Residents traveling for tourist or business purposes to France or the Operations Account countries are allowed to take out an unlimited amount in banknotes or other payment in- struments in euros. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the amount declared at the time of entry; the reexportation of foreign banknotes exceeding this limit requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler, or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. The reexportation by nonresident travelers of means of payment other than banknotes issued abroad and registered in the name of the nonresident traveler is not restricted, subject to documentation that these had been purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. There is no l im it on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may import from a member country of the BEAC. However, imports of banknotes from outside the BEAC are prohibited. Travelers are authorized to enter the Republic of Congo with banknotes and coins other than CFA francs. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically These accounts are not allowed in principle; however, companies may hold foreign exchange accounts with special approval. Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts REPUBLIC OF CONGO 253 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts are intended primarily for the use of international agencies and embassies. However, prior approval is required. The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on regulations that were in force in France before the abolition of all capital controls in 1989. Because the BEAC has suspended the repurchase of BEAC banknotes in circulation outside the area of issue, these may not be credited to foreign accounts in CFA francs. Blocked accounts n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions in excess of CFAF 5 million with countries other than CAEMC countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from these countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank and approved by the Foreign Trade Directorate and the DGCRF. Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses used as exchange licenses The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to an authorized bank. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs An annual import program classifies imports by the following zones: (1) the countries of the CAEMC, (2) France, (3) other Operations Account countries, (4) EU countries other than France, and (5) all remaining countries. Nine items under this program require licenses, and others are subject to ex post declaration. Except for cement, goods from all countries may be imported freely and without licenses. All imports, however, are subject to declaration. Imports of cement are subject to quotas. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in the Republic of Congo. The common external tariff rates in the CAEMC member countries are 5% for basic neces- sities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for intermediate and miscellaneous goods, and 30% for consumer goods requiring special protection. Intra-CAEMC customs duties are 20% of the common external rates. Import surcharges of 30% have been introduced on imports of goods previously subject to quantitative restrictions. These surcharges are to be eliminated in three to six years, with the longer period applying to certain agricultural and textile products. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports to countries outside the CAEMC zone must be collected and repatri- ated within 30 days of arrival of the goods at their destination. Export proceeds received in currencies other than euros or those of other Operations Ac- count countries must be surrendered within one month of collection. Financing requirements n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 254 REPUBLIC OF CONGO Documentation requirements Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All export transactions in excess of CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. All exports require an exchange commitment that must be underwritten within eight days from the export date. Yes. Export taxes of up to 13% apply to certain goods. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for invisibles to CAEMC countries are permitted freely; payments to other coun- tries are subject only to declaration and presentation of appropriate documents to the MEFB for approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the underly- ing trade transaction has been approved or does not require approval. The regulations in force guarantee the repatriation of profits, dividends, and proceeds from disinvestment abroad. Prior approval Payments for depreciation of direct investments require DGCRF approval. Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Residents traveling for tourist or business purposes to CAEMC countries are allowed to take out an unlimited amount in banknotes or other payment instruments in CFA francs. The allowances for travel to countries outside the franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, CFAF 200,000 per day with a maximum of CFAF 4 mil- lion per trip per person; and (2) for business travel, CFAF 500,000 per day with a maxi- mum of CFAF 10 million per trip per person. All resident travelers, regardless of destina- tion, must declare in writing all means of payment at their disposal at the time of departure. Yes. Yes. The allowance for travel to countries other than CAEMC countries for medical treatment and educational purposes is CFAF 5 million. Transfers abroad, other than to CAEMC countries, of pensions and payments for medical expenses, studies abroad, alimony, and family maintenance are authorized upon presenta- tion of supporting documents. Yes. Foreign nationals working in CAEMC countries are allowed to transfer part of their net salary abroad upon presentation of their pay vouchers, provided that the transfers take place within three months of the pay period during which the funds were earned. Yes. Yes. The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and ap- proved by the MEFB, is limited to the ceilings applied for tourist and business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CONGO 255 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions with CAEMC countries may be retained. Proceeds of over CFAF 5 million that are received from residents of other countries for services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within one month of the due date. All proceeds over CFAF 5 million for services, as well as income earned in non-CAEMC countries from foreign assets received in foreign currency must be surrendered within one month of the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital transfers between the Republic of Congo, France, Monaco, and the other Opera- tions Account countries may be effected freely, provided that they are not related to activi- ties that are prohibited under CAEMC regulations, although ex post declarations are re- quired. Most international capital transactions are subject to prior authorization. Capital transfers abroad require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad are generally permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Republic of Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Republic of Congo. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Republic of Congo requires prior authorization from the MEFB. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Congolese govern- ment and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Republic of Congo has previously been authorized. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requirement that may apply) are main- tained over borrowing and lending abroad. All lending in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited unless special authorization is ob- tained from the MEFB. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans in foreign currency granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans whose total amounts outstanding do not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 100 million for any one lender. Although these loans do not require authorization, their repayment must be reported to the DGCRF within 30 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 256 REPUBLIC OF CONGO To residents from nonresidents Borrowing requires prior authorization from the MEFB. However, loans contracted by registered banks and small loans in which the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, the interest is no higher than 5%, and the term is at least two years are exempt from this requirement. The contracting of loans not requiring authorization and each repayment must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 30 days of the operation. Borrowing backed by a guarantee from the government is exempt from authorization. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Outward direct investment Prior approval of the MEFB is required. Inward direct investment Investments of over CFAF 100 million (including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Republic of Congo and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies in the Republic of Congo) require the prior approval of the MEFB within 30 days, unless they involve the creation of a mixed public/private-ownership enterprise. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Full or partial liquidation of direct investments must be declared to the MEFB within 30 days. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2004 Exchange arrangement January 1. The commission applicable to payments to all countries was increased to 1% from 0.75%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position as of December 31', 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 1, 1965. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican colon. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling peg Exchange tax The external value of the colon is determined in the interbank market. Foreign exchange trading occurs in the organized electronic foreign exchange market (MONED) among au- thorized traders, where the Central Bank (CB) carries out its intervention operations. For- eign exchange trading also takes place directly between authorized institutions outside the MONED. Government and public sector institutions conduct foreign exchange transactions with the state commercial banks and the CB at the official reference exchange rate, which is calculated at the close of each business day as the weighted average of the exchange rates used in the market during the previous business day; the rate of crawl is adjusted on the basis of the differential between the rates of inf la t ion in Costa Rica and in its main trading partners. During 2003, the annual rate of crawl was 10.5%. A tax, calculated as the average daily spread between buying and selling rates multiplied by the transaction amount, is applied to all transactions in the exchange market. Proceeds from this tax must be transferred to the CB within one day. Dur ing 2003, the tax rate averaged 10%. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Nearly all payments for exchange transactions are made in dollars. Trade payments to Central America may be made in dollars or in local currencies. Regional arrangements Costa Rica is a member of the CACM. Administration of control Regulations are issued by the CB's Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Natural and juridical persons may buy or sell domestically produced gold (except national trade archaeological treasures). Controls on external trade Licenses from the CB are required for exports of gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Imports and exports of foreign currency are unrestricted but are usually carried out through the CB. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 258 COSTA RICA Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports n.a. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports made on a barter basis require a barter license issued by the Ministry of Economy, Industry, and Commerce (MEIC). Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Customs tar iffs on most goods range up to 15%. In addition, the following taxes are levied on imports: (1) a sales tax of 13%, from which certain essential items are exempt; and (2) selective consumption taxes at rates ranging from zero to 100%. Imports of fuel are made by the Costa Rican Petroleum Refinery and imports of grain by the National Council of Production. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Exporters must report receipts from exports within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year. Financing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements An export form must be filed. Export licenses Without quotas Licenses are required for the following goods from their respective agencies: armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals from the MEIC; sugar from the Agro-Industrial Cane League; beans, ipecacuanha root, onions, cotton, meat, and thor- oughbred cattle from the National Council of Production; airplanes from the Civil Aviation Board and the MEIC; Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay from the National Museum; tobacco from the Tobacco Defense Board; textiles, flowers, lumber, cats, dogs, certain livestock, and wild animals and plants of the forest from the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock; bananas from the National Banana Corporation; and coffee from the Coffee Institute. In addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, the bank's approval is required before the CB will grant an export license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA 259 Export taxes Taxes are levied on coffee and bananas and, in some cases, are graduated in line with inter- national prices. There are no taxes on nontraditional exports to countries outside Central America. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments A 15% withholding tax is levied on all profits, dividends, and remittances of interest abroad, except for remittances to foreign banks or their financial entities recognized by the CB as institutions normally engaged in international transactions, and for interest payments on government borrowing abroad. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Receipts of proceeds must be reported within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year, n.a. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Capital Transactions n.a. The MOF has been authorized by the national assembly to issue bonds in international markets. These bonds are to be issued annually—beginning in 2000 and continuing for five years—in amounts equivalent to $250 million, except for the year 2003, when the amount will be increased to the equivalent of $450 million. If the annual amount is not issued or sold by the end of a year, the remaining amount will be added to the amount for the following year. No. The National Budget Authority (composed of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Planning, and the President of the CB) is in charge of authorizing the negotiation of new external credits contemplated by the central government, decentralized agencies, and state enterprises. Private commercial banks, finance companies, and cooperatives must inform the CB when contracting credits abroad. No. No. No. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Cote d'lvoire is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at a fixed rate of legal tender CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market vis-a-vis the euro. Exchange tax Authorized banks charge a proportional commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered to the treasury, and a fixed commission, which they may set freely. Banks are authorized to charge a maximum commission of 2% on nonelectronic exchange transactions in euros. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract foreign exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Cote d'lvoire is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made mainly in euros, but they may also be made in foreign currencies. Settlements outside the Operations Account area are allowed freely for current account transactions. Capital transactions are subject to exchange authorization (which must be filed with the Ministry of State, Ministry of Economy and Finance— MSMEF), except in the following cases: (1) transfers of the amounts required for contrac- tual settlements of debts or for repayments of short-term loans granted for financing com- mercial and industrial operations; (2) transfers of proceeds from the liquidation of invest- ments or the sale of foreign securities by nonresidents; and (3) payments for purchases of options. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. Most purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A clearing agreement exists between the WAMA members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jointly by the Directorate of the Treasury in the MSMEF and the BCEAO. Since the regulations governing external financial relations of WAEMU member countries came into force (on February 1, 1999), most of the supervisory authority has been delegated to authorized intermediary banks, which are required to report on the transactions carried out under their supervision. The only transactions that remain subject to the prior authorization of the MSMEF or the BCEAO relate to outward investments by nonresidents and domestic and foreign currency accounts of residents. The BCEAO is spe- cifically authorized to collect, either directly or through intermediary banks, other financial institutions, or the postal administration, any information necessary to prepare balance of payments statistics. It is also authorized to monitor the external position of banks. The maximum amount of transfers that may be effected without supporting documents is CFAF 300,000. 260 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 261 International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the MSMEF. The export of CFA franc banknotes by travelers is allowed. However, repurchase of ex- ported banknotes by the BCEAO remains suspended. The shipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized banks and their correspondents located outside the WAEMU zone is strictly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits at local banks. Residents traveling outside the BCEAO zone are allowed to take out foreign currency up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 mil- lion a person. Larger amounts may be exported in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. Imports of domestic currency by resident travelers are permitted freely. The shipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondents located outside the WAEMU zone is strictly prohibited. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must surrender the excess amount to an authorized bank within eight days of their return. Nonresidents bringing in foreign banknotes and traveler's checks in foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 1 million must declare it at the customs office. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Resident Accounts Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or with banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MSMEF and with the approval of the BCEAO. Holding these accounts is subject to authorization by the MSMEF with the prior approval of the BCEAO. The opening of accounts abroad by residents is subject to authorization by the MSMEF with the prior approval of the BCEAO. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 262 COTE D'lVOIRE Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the WAEMU area, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO bank- notes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without the prior authorization of the MSMEF. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Nonresidents may freely debit their foreign accounts in CFA francs for the purpose of purchasing foreign currency on the official foreign exchange market. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment of goods if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the goods have already been imported. A domiciliation requirement, which must be channeled through an authorized bank, applies to all imports from outside the CFA franc zone that exceed CFAF 5 million. Inspection for quality and price is required for imports exceeding CFAF 3 million; imports valued under CFAF 3 million may be subject to random inspection. LCs are required for goods imported from outside the EU, Operations Account countries, and ACP countries. Imports are classified into three categories: (1) goods requiring prior authorization or the approval of ministries; (2) goods subject to quantitative or other restrictions requiring li- censes issued by the Directorate of External Trade Promotions; and (3) freely importable goods. Open general licenses Import licenses for a short list of controlled products are issued by the Directorate of External Trade Promotions in the Ministry of Commerce. Other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). A 1% commu- nity solidarity fee and a tax of 0.5%, based on the c.i.f. value of imports, are levied on ECOWAS imports. Imports from non-ECOWAS countries are subject to an additional community tax of 0.5%. A statistical tax of 1% is levied on all imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports must be received within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries are not required to be repatriated. Proceeds must be surrendered to banks within 30 days of the payment due date. The author- ized intermediaries must then surrender the foreign exchange to the BCEAO by transfer through the bank of issue. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All export transactions require a customs declaration. Letters of credit Domiciliation Yes. All exports of more than CFAF 5 m i l l ion, except those to WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes COTE D'lVOIRE 263 Exports are permitted on the basis of a simple authorization from the Directorate of Foreign Trade, which issues a certificate of origin, as needed. Exports of diamonds, gold, and all other precious metals, however, require prior authorization of the MSMEF, with the exception of articles with only a small gold content, travelers' personal effects weighing less than 500 grams, and coins (fewer than 10 pieces, irrespective of their face value or denomination). Exports of lumber are subject to quantitative quotas allocated through an auction. Exports of cocoa and coffee are subject to a specific export tax and can be effected only by exporters authorized by the Authority for Regulation of Coffee and Cocoa. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are also permitted, subject to documentary require- ments. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Bona fide tests are conducted by authorized intermediary banks. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval The transfer abroad of funds necessary for the repayment of a loan may be effected freely, but must be made through an authorized bank and reported to the MSMEF for statistical purposes. Payments of depreciation of direct investments are not expressly provided for in the legislation and, as such, require prior MSMEF approval. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Residents traveling to non-WAEMU countries may carry foreign currency up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million a person. Amounts exceeding this limit must be in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other instruments. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments There are no limits on transfers related to studies abroad, family maintenance, or alimony. These payments may be made through an authorized bank upon presentation of the appropriate documentation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Payments abroad related to wages, salaries, and honoraria; contributions and benefits; pen- sions and work-related activities; and service contracts are authorized upon presentation of the appropriate documentation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions with non-WAEMU members must be repatriated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 264 COTE D'lVOIRE Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions with WAEMU members may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries with respect to services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital inflows to WAEMU member countries are unrestricted, with the exception of direct investment, which is subject to prior declaration, and certain borrowing operations, which require prior authorization. All investments abroad by residents require prior MSMEF authorization, and at least 75% of the financing of such investments must be effected by borrowing from abroad. Transfers of capital abroad are subject to controls. In accordance with the new direction of economic policy aimed at attracting foreign investment, foreign exchange laws currently in force in WAEMU member countries do not control capital inflows. Under the new foreign exchange laws, the term "foreigner" refers to countries that are not members of the CFA franc zone. However, with respect to the local issue and offer for sale of foreign securities, the term "foreigner" means all countries outside the territory of the member country concerned. With the exception of the issue and sale of foreign securities in Cote d'lvoire, operations in securities are not covered explicitly by specific laws. By their nature, however, these opera- tions are still subject to the provisions governing foreign investment and lending. There are no controls on transfers related to the sale of foreign securities by residents and to the proceeds of disinvestments by nonresidents. Foreign investments in WAEMU countries are subject to reporting for statistical purposes. The prior authorization of the RCPSFM is required for the issuance and marketing of secu- rities and capital assets of foreign entities, as well as for publicity and advertising of in- vestments abroad. Any investment by residents abroad requires the prior approval of the MSMEF. There are no controls, provided that a prior declaration is made in the case of direct investment. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of securities and the sale of corporate or foreign securities in Cote d'lvoire by nonresidents require prior authorization by the RCPSFM. Securities issued or offered for sale by a nonresident with prior authorization may be pur- chased freely by a resident. The same applies to payments for these purchases by residents, subsequent to the presentation of supporting documentation. There are no controls on the sale of securities resulting from the divestiture of investment in the form of a transfer between a nonresident and a resident, subject to the regulations gov- erning the financial settlement of the operation. Settlement of securities transactions by transfer abroad or by credit to a nonresident account requires an exchange authorization to be submitted to the MSMEF for approval, accompanied by supporting documentation. Purchase abroad by residents These purchases and the transfer abroad of funds associated with them require the prior authorization of the MSMEF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may sell local corporate securities abroad. If these operations result in foreign control of Ivoirien corporations, foreign investors are required to make a prior declaration to the MSMEF. The sale of securities to liquidate an investment abroad is subject to prior declaration to the MSMEF. The proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 265 Residents may also issue securities abroad, except for those constituting a loan. Issuance of the latter to nonresidents must be made through an authorized bank and must be reported to the MSMEF for statistical purposes. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire money market instruments through local banks. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue by nonresidents of money market instruments on the local market is sub- ject to prior authorization by the MSMEF. The transfer of the proceeds from these opera- tions is unrestricted if the issue itself has received prior authorization, and must be effected through an authorized bank and reported to the MSMEF for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents Prior MSMEF authorization is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no controls on the sale of money market instruments abroad by residents. Sales to liquidate an investment must be declared in advance. The proceeds in foreign exchange of the sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. The issue by residents of money market instruments abroad is governed by the provisions pertaining to borrowing. On collective investment securities The regulations governing money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Residents may purchase or sell options abroad freely. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The issue of a loan in the form of securities requires prior MSMEF approval. Such approval is not required, however, for loans contracted by authorized intermediaries or for those that comply with specific conditions as to amount and interest rate. Foreign borrowing by residents is subject only to reporting for statistical purposes. Granting of these credits is subject to two provisions. First, claims resulting from exports of goods must be collected and the corresponding amounts repatriated through the BCEAO within 30 days of the payment due date stipulated in the commercial contract. Generally, the period allowed for payment must not exceed 120 days following the arrival of the mer- chandise at its destination. Second, claims resulting from payments for services must also be collected and surrendered to an authorized dealer or the BCEAO no later than one month after the payment due date. These credits may be freely granted. Repayment is usually authorized, subject to the presentation of the relevant proof of the execution of the commercial transaction or the provision of the service, as well as the payment due date. The granting of financial credits requires the prior authorization of the MSMEF. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these facilities, an exchange authorization must be submitted with the required documentation to the MSMEF. These fac i l i t ies may be freely granted, and the funds to service them must be transferred from abroad by an authorized intermediary, but they must be reported to the Directorate of the Treasury. By residents to nonresidents The granting of these fac i l i t ies requires the prior authorization of the MSMEF. To residents from nonresidents The regulations governing f inanc ial credits apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 266 COTE D'lVOIRE Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior MSMEF approval is required. At least 75% of such investments must be financed by foreign loans. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized inter- mediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign account in CFA francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. These investments, including their transfer between nonresidents, are subject to prior declaration to the MSMEF for statistical purposes. Proceeds may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in CFA francs upon presentation of the required documentation to an authorized intermediary responsible for payment. The liquidation of investments abroad by a resident requires a declaration to the MSMEF for information purposes. The reinvestment of the proceeds of the liquidation is subject to the prior authorization of the MSMEF. If the reinvestment has not been authorized, the proceeds of the liquidation must be repatriated within one month through an authorized intermediary. Real estate investment abroad by a resident is subject to prior approval by the MSMEF. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized intermediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a for- eign account in CFA francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no controls on purchases, except in the case of direct investment in an enterprise, branch, or corporation. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Proceeds from the sale of real estate may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in CFA francs upon presentation of the required documentation to the authorized intermediary responsible for payment. Personal capital transactions between residents and nonresidents must be effected through the BCEAO, the Postal Service, or an authorized bank, unless prior authorization is obtained from the MSMEF. These transactions require prior MSMEF authorization. The individuals concerned may not engage in such operations as a professional occupation without first being licensed and included in the list of financial institutions. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are permitted freely, but, for statistical purposes, they must be reported to the MSMEF when they are contracted and repaid. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Except for inheritances and dowries, for which payments are generally authorized, payments pertaining to other operations require prior authorization of the MSMEF. Immigrants who have obtained resident status must obtain prior authorization from the MSMEF to settle debts incurred abroad while they were nonresidents. Upon presentation of emigration documents, the parties concerned may, without prior au- thorization, transfer up to CFAF 300,000 a person. Amounts in excess may be transferred with MSMEF authorization. Authorized intermediaries may borrow freely abroad, but these transactions must be reported to the MSMEF for statistical purposes. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and f inanc ial institutions are not permitted to hold liquid assets outside the WAEMU, except to cover current operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 267 Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions are permitted, but are subject to prior authorization by the MSMEF and the BCEAO in the case of loans, financial credits, or the purchase of securities issued abroad. Domestic lending denominated in foreign exchange or purchases of foreign currency- denominated securities issued in Cote d'lvoire require prior authorization by the MSMEF with the approval of the BCEAO. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange These purchases require the prior approval of the MSMEF if their issuance or sale in WAEMU member countries has not been authorized by the RCPSFM. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Any overdraft or advance granted to a nonresident requires the prior authorization of the MSMEF with the approval of the BCEAO. Investment regulations The regulations governing direct investment apply. Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits There are no prudential ratios; open positions result from special dispensations. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 29, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Croatia is the Croatian kuna. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the kuna is determined in the foreign exchange market. The Croatian National Bank (CNB) may set intervention exchange rates, which it applies in transactions with banks outside the interbank market to smooth undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The CNB has provided, on occasion, swap facilities at par for banks in a limited forward market. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Yes. This is allowed only in prescribed cases. There is an arrangement with Italy that applies only to certain Croatian districts. The CNB formulates and administers exchange rate policy and may issue foreign exchange regulations. Companies wishing to engage in foreign trade must register with the commercial courts. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Off ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade In accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, restrictions are imposed on financial transactions with the Taliban and on transactions relating to known terrorist groups. Yes. Imports and exports of monetary and nonmonetary gold (including gold in unwrought, semimanufactured, or powder form, or plated with platinum; gold bars, rods, wires, and 268 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA 269 sections; gold plates and gold sheets and strips exceeding 0.15 mm in thickness, excluding any backing) are subject to approval of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Imports and exports of kunas and foreign exchange exceeding HRK 40,000 or its equivalent in cash and checks must be declared to customs. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency The exportation of Croatian currency by natural persons (both residents and nonresidents) is restricted to HRK 15,000 a person; however, larger amounts may be exported with CNB approval. A resident natural persons may take out the equivalent of €3,000 in foreign currency and checks; amounts in excess of this limit require CNB approval. Resident natural persons may take out bank and traveler's checks up to the equivalent of €3,000 for the payment of goods and services abroad only. Other residents may take out foreign currency and checks for the payment of goods or ser- vices imports up to the equivalent of €3,000; amounts in excess of this l im it require CNB approval. Natural persons —both resident and nonresident —may import up to the equivalent of HRK 15,000; for any amount in excess of this limit, CNB approval is required. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents may, in principle, open and operate foreign exchange accounts only in Croatia. However, the CNB has the authority to allow residents (except banks) to open and maintain accounts abroad. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. These accounts may be opened for the following purposes: investment and research pro- jects abroad; deposit guarantee, drawing of funds under foreign credits; insurance against interest rate, currency, and other market risks; purchases and sales of securities abroad; payments of the costs of commercial representative offices abroad; payments of the costs of residents providing services in international goods and passenger traffic and residents in- volved in insurance of property and persons; and settlements of claims in nontransferable currencies. Approval required Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency The regulations governing foreign exchange accounts held abroad apply. Residents may convert domestic currency into foreign currency without restriction. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open foreign exchange accounts with fu l ly licensed banks in Croatia. A CNB decision sets forth the documentation required for opening foreign exchange and domestic currency accounts by nonresidents. Juridical and natural persons domiciled or resident abroad that are engaged in economic activity, and other foreign organizations and branches of resident companies doing business abroad, may deposit into their accounts up to the equivalent of €25,000 a month and may withdraw from their account €5,000 worth of foreign currency cash per month. Amounts in excess of these limits require approval from the CNB. Domestic currency accounts Juridical and natural persons domiciled or resident abroad that are engaged in economic activities and other foreign organizations and branches of resident companies doing ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 270 CROATIA business abroad may withdraw and/or deposit up to HRK 30,000. Amounts in excess of this limit require approval from the CNB. Convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange may be purchased with funds held in these accounts without restriction. Blocked accounts Balances in foreign exchange accounts held by residents (natural persons) of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, blocked since 1992, have been replaced with claims on the Croatian government. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures An invoice or agreement is required for transfers. There are no import quotas, although the trade law allows for such quotas in principle, un- der conditions envisaged by WTO rules. All imports are free from licensing requirements except for a list of products whose importation is controlled by international agreement for statistical reasons (such as arms, gold, illegal drugs, and narcotics), and a small number of other products (notably iron tubes and bars and fertilizers—except for those from WTO members). Imports are not limited on the basis of quantity or value, except as stated in relevant international conventions. Licenses, where required, are issued on a case-by-case basis. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Effective July 23, 2003, imports of industrial products are subject to customs tariffs of up to 15.2% (previously, 16.7%). For a number of agricultural and food products, compound duties (ad valorem plus a specific customs duty) apply. The maximum ad valorem duty is 58% (previously, 61%) and, where a compound duty is applied, the maximum ad valorem component is 15%. The exemption for duty-free imports by travelers is HRK 300 or the equivalent. For imports exceeding that value, the regular import tariffs and taxes (including a VAT of 22%) are applied. Goods imported by travelers and postal shipments up to the equivalent of HRK 5,000 are subject to a simplified customs procedure with a unified tariff rate of 10%. For imports exceeding that value, the regular import tariffs and taxes are ap- plied. Returning citizens who have resided abroad for at least five years without interrup- tion may import household effects that were in use for at least 12 months, as well as goods for private business purposes —subject to customs approval —without paying customs tar- i f fs or taxes. Under certain conditions, goods imported by nonresidents for investment pur- poses are exempt from import duties. Imports under special customs procedures, such as temporary imports and goods to be processed under customs surveillance, are exempt from customs duties. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Effective July 23, 2003, this requirement was lifted. Previously, export proceeds had to be collected and repatriated in fu ll within 150 days of the date of exportation. This period formerly could be extended for 60 days with permission from the CNB. If payment terms in excess of 150 days had been agreed to with foreign importers, the credit arrangement had to be registered with the CNB. Export proceeds from the countries of the CIS had to be repa- triated within 180 days, with the possibility of a further 60-day extension, subject to the approval of the CNB. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA 271 Guarantees Export licenses Export taxes Yes. Exports are free of restrictions, except for certain products for which permits must be obtained (e.g., weapons, drugs, and art objects). No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Effective July 23, 2003, repatriation requirements on proceeds from services no longer apply. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Inward portfolio investment is subject to certain limitations. In general, outward investment in capital and money market securities by banks, investment funds, insurance companies, and pension funds is liberalized, while controls apply to transactions by natural and juridical persons. Nonresidents are allowed to invest freely, but the instruments must be held for a minimum of one year. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Effective June 18, 2003, the MOF is authorized to impose certain conditions on the issuance, sale, and listing of foreign securities in local capital markets. Purchase abroad by residents Effective June 18, 2003, residents are allowed to purchase freely abroad securities issued by OECD member countries and international financial institutions, and minimum issuer rating conditions are imposed on purchases of securities issued by private issuers. Previ- ously, only banks, investment funds, insurance companies, and pension funds could invest in securities abroad. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents are allowed to sell or issue securities abroad, although prior notification to the Croatian Securities Commission is required. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are allowed to invest freely, but these instruments must be held for at least one year. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Effective June 18, 2003, the MOF may impose conditions on the issuance, sale, and listing of foreign securities in local capital markets. Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Effec t ive June 18, 2003, resident individuals are allowed to purchase securities issued by OECD member countries and international financial institutions. Minimum issuer rating conditions are imposed on purchases of securities issued by private issuers. Previously, only banks, investment funds, insurance companies, and investment funds could invest abroad. Nonresidents are not allowed to purchase CNB bills or MOF treasury bills. The CNB may impose restrictions on the acquisition of other short-term securities and the transfer thereof prior to maturity. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 272 CROATIA Short-term securities purchased by nonresidents must be held until maturity. Residents may not sell to nonresidents domestic short-term securities with a remaining maturity of less than six months. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Issues of short-term securities by nonresidents are subject to minimum rating requirements. Securities issued locally must be denominated in kunas. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds and other debt securities apply. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may not purchase shares in domestic investment funds whose portfolios are more than 50% composed of CNB b i l ls and treasury b i l ls of the MOF. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These are permitted subject to reciprocity. Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Residents may purchase stakes in foreign investment funds provided that the following conditions have been met: (1) the head office of the investment fund management company must be located in a member country of the OECD; and (2) at least 40% of the investment fund assets must be invested in securities of OECD member countries and international financial institutions. In addition, these transactions are subject to reciprocity. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases for the purpose of hedging against risk are permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents Purchases for the purpose of hedging against risk are permitted. Controls on credit operations Foreign credit operations must be reported to the CNB. Commercial credits For statistical purposes only, commercial credits with a maturity of more than one year must be reported to the CNB. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The extension of financial loans with a maturity of less than one year to nonresidents is prohibited, except when made by banks or direct investors in foreign companies. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Foreign direct investment must be reported to the CNB for statistical purposes. Investments must be registered with the commercial courts. Foreign direct investment must be reported to the CNB for statistical purposes. Proceeds may be transferred after settlement of legal obligations, including tax payments. Effective June 18, 2003, residents may transfer funds abroad freely to purchase real estate. Previously, natural persons were not allowed to transfer capital abroad for the purpose of buying real estate. Foreign natural and juridical persons may acquire real estate in Croatia under the condition of reciprocity, subject to permission from the minister of foreign affairs, which is granted after the prior opinion of the minister of justice. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CROATIA 273 Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents The extension of financial loans with maturity of less than one year to nonresidents is pro- hibited. This prohibition does not apply to residents extending financial loans to immediate relatives. To residents from nonresidents Resident natural persons are required to use foreign financial credits through the authorized domestic banks. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Gifts and endowments greater than the equivalent of €3,000 (if made in foreign exchange) or HRK 15,000 (if made in kunas) must be approved by the CNB. Effective June 18, 2003, CNB approval is required for transfers exceeding HRK 15,000 or the equivalent of €3,000 in foreign exchange. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Deposits denominated in domestic and foreign exchange are subject to a reserve require- ment of 19%. The calculation period follows the calendar month, but the maintenance pe- riod, which also lasts a month, extends from the eighth of the calendar month to the seventh of the following month. Kuna and foreign exchange components of the calculation are de- termined separately. Forty-two percent of the calculated foreign reserve requirement is included in the calculated kuna reserve requirement. On January 29, 2003, the rate of remuneration for the deposited kuna component of re- quired reserves was reduced to 1.5% from 1.75%. Effective November 13, 2003, this rate has been further reduced to 1.25%. Effective January 8, 2003, the remuneration of the for- eign exchange component is 75% of the United States federal funds target rate for funds allocated in dollars and 75% of the ECB minimum bid refinance rate for funds allocated in euros. Liquid asset requirements Thirty-five percent of foreign exchange liabilities must be covered by short-term foreign exchange assets with a maturity of less than three months. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements The required reserves applicable to nonresident accounts in foreign exchange are to be deposited with the CNB, while reserves applicable to resident accounts in foreign exchange may be partly deposited with foreign banks. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit on open positions in foreign exchange is 20% of a bank's regulatory capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad A law on obligatory and voluntary pension funds is in effect. Investment funds may not invest more than 5% of the value of the fund in the securities of a single issuer. However, this limit may be raised to 10%, provided that not more than 40% of the assets of the fund are invested in securities of other issuers. In addition, investment funds may acquire bonds of one issuer, but only if the total face value of these bonds does not exceed 10% of the total face value of all the bonds of the same issuer and if they are in circulation. For purposes of determining this limit, bonds of the Croatian state, member states of the EU, and other member states of the OECD are valued at one-half of their face value. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 274 CROATIA Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2003 Imports and import payments July 23. The max imum customs tariff for industrial products was reduced to 15.2% from 16.7%, and the maximum ad valorem duty was reduced to 58% from 61%. Exports and export proceeds July 23. The repatriation requirement on export proceeds was lifted. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions July 23. The repatriation requirement on proceeds from services was lifted. Controls on capital and money market instruments June 18. The MOF was authorized to impose certain conditions on the issuance, sale, and listing of foreign securities in local capital markets. June 18. Residents were allowed to purchase securities issued by OECD-member countries and international financial institutions abroad freely, and minimum issue rating conditions were imposed on purchases of securities issued by private issuers. Previously, only banks, investment funds, insurance companies, and pension funds could invest in securities abroad. Controls on real estate transactions June 18. Residents were allowed to transfer funds abroad freely to purchase real estate. Controls on personal capital transactions June 18. Transfer abroad by emigrants exceeding HRK 15,000 or the equivalent of €3,000 in foreign exchange required CNB approval. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 8. The rate of remuneration for the deposited foreign exchange component of required reserves was determined as 75% of the United States federal funds target rate for funds allocated in dollars and 75% of the ECB minimum bid refinance rate for funds allocated in euros. January 29. The rate of remuneration for the deposited kuna component of required reserves was reduced to 1.5% from 1.75%. November 13. The rate of remuneration for the deposited kuna component of required reserves was reduced to 1.25% from 1.5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position as of May 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 9, 1991. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus pound. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) The Cyprus pound is pegged to the euro within margins of ±15% around the central rate of €1.7086 per £C 1. Subject to certain limitations, including a limit on spreads between buy- ing and selling rates, authorized dealers (banks) are free to determine and quote their own buying and selling rates. The Central Bank of Cyprus (CBC) monitors foreign exchange rates and may intervene to safeguard the smooth functioning of the market and the stability of the currency. The CBC is also responsible for organizing the daily fixing session with the commercial banks, at which the official foreign exchange rates ("fixing exchange rates") for the pound are determined. No. No. Authorized dealers may trade in the forward market at rates freely negotiated with their customers. Forward foreign exchange contracts may be utilized by anyone who has entered into a contractual agreement. The forward cover may be extended to any period, provided it does not exceed the duration of the underlying obligation. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no restrictions on contracts between residents that are denominated in foreign currency. Actual payments between residents in foreign currency are usually permitted when the residents involved maintain foreign currency accounts. No. Exchange controls are administered by the CBC in cooperation with authorized dealers to whom authority has been delegated to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for most bona fide transactions. Effective May 1, 2004, the Exchange Control Law was repealed. Pursuant to UN Security Council and EU resolutions, economic sanctions are imposed against Iraq, nongovernmental forces in Sierra Leone, the Taliban, the UNITA movement in Angola, and individuals, groups and organizations associated with terrorism. Although restrictions imposed against Serbia and Montenegro have been lifted, some bank balances belonging to the former National Bank of Yugoslavia remain frozen (these balances were maintained with a Serbian bank that was placed under liquidation in June 2002; the matter is being dealt with by the liquidators in cooperation with the appropriate authorities). In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Yes. No. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 276 CYPRUS Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold bullion at home or abroad. The exportation of gold coins or bu l l ion requires the permission of the CBC. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold bullion only for the purpose of providing it to industrial users. Resident travelers may take out up to £C 1,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of Cypriot banknotes that they imported and declared on arrival. In cases where declarations are not made, nonresidents may export up to £C 1,000 in Cypriot or the equivalent in foreign banknotes. In addition, nonresidents may export the fu ll amount of refunded VAT in Cypriot banknotes. Authorized dealers may dispatch any amount of Cypriot or foreign banknotes to foreign banks in exchange for foreign currency. Resident travelers may take out any amount of foreign banknotes purchased from authorized dealers as part of their foreign currency allowances. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign banknotes that they imported and declared on arrival, as well as any amount purchased from banks in Cyprus against external funds or in exchange for Cypriot banknotes from conversion of foreign exchange. Although there are no restrictions, nonresidents entering Cyprus are advised to declare to customs any Cypriot or foreign banknotes to facilitate their reexport, deposit with author- ized dealers, or use in purchasing property or goods for export. For the purpose of prevent- ing money laundering, authorized dealers are not allowed to accept deposits of foreign banknotes in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 without prior approval of the CBC. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Residents receiving or needing to make payments in foreign currency may hold foreign currency accounts with authorized dealers. Cypriot repatriates and individuals temporarily working abroad, and, effective May 28, 2003, local companies wholly owned by nonresi- dents, may also hold such accounts. With the exception of repatriates, individuals temporar- ily working abroad, and professionals holding funds of their nonresident clients and the aforementioned companies, residents are required to convert into Cyprus pounds balances at the end of each year that are not necessary to make payments in foreign exchange during the next three months. Resident natural persons 18 years or older may deposit up to the equivalent of £C 50,000 a year in accounts with banks abroad or, alternatively, use part or all of the balance for port- fo l io investment abroad. In addition, Cypriot repatriates and, effective May 28, 2003, local companies wholly owned by nonresidents may keep in foreign currency accounts or exter- nal accounts with banks in Cyprus, or accounts with banks abroad, all of their foreign cur- rency holdings and earnings accruing from properties they own abroad. Resident individu- als temporarily working abroad may maintain their foreign currency earnings in foreign currency accounts, external accounts with banks in Cyprus, or accounts with banks abroad. In all other cases, CBC approval is required. Approval required Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad These accounts are treated in the same way as foreign currency accounts held abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 277 Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency These accounts are designated as external accounts. They may be maintained by Cypriot repatriates and individuals temporarily working abroad, local companies wholly owned by nonresidents (effective May 28, 2003), and by professionals holding funds of their nonresident clients. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited with funds from external sources and authorized payments from residents. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are designated as external accounts, and the rules governing foreign currency accounts apply. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses used as exchange licenses Effective August 4, 2003, the restrictions on prepayments were lifted. Previously, the CBC examined remittances to suppliers exceeding the equivalent of £C 100,000 for bona fide purposes. Effective August 4, 2003, authorized dealers are allowed to sell to departing resi- dents foreign exchange up to £C 100,000 (previously, £C 50,000) for purchases of goods to be imported into Cyprus; for larger amounts, approval by the CBC is required. Documentation showing the bona fide nature of transactions must be presented to authorized dealers. Import licenses are required for a small number of goods. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Most imports are free of licensing requirements. A license is required for a small number of goods prescribed by the Minister of Commerce, Industry, and Tourism. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. Yes. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be received within six months of shipment unless an exception is granted by the CBC. In general, export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than six months after the date of exportation. Manufacturers importing their own raw materials or making other payments in foreign currency may deposit export proceeds in foreign cur- rency accounts with authorized dealers, subject to the requirement that, at the end of each year, balances that are not necessary for payments in foreign exchange during the next three months be converted into Cyprus pounds. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 278 Export licenses Without quotas CYPRUS In line with EU regulations, exports of military equipment and goods that may be used for chemical or biological weapons, as well as nuclear-related products (including dual-use products), are subject to licensing for reasons of preserving international peace and security. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Investment-related payments Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Other payments Effective August 4, 2003, all restrictions on payments and transfers for invisibles and cur- rent transfers were lifted. Authorized dealers are allowed to effect payments and transfers on presentation of appropriate documentation, without referring to the CBC. Previously, authorized dealers could make payments for some invisible transactions up to a limit of £C 500,000 in most cases without referring to the CBC. Indicative limits applied for certain transactions. Payments above these limits required CBC approval, which was readily granted for bona fide transactions. Prior to August 4, 2003, commissions in excess of 10% of the value of exported goods and services required CBC approval and documentation showing the bona fide nature of the transactions was generally required. Profits and dividends, interest, and rent from approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad on presentation of appropriate documentation. Prior to August 4, 2003, the indicative limit for tourist travel was the equivalent of £C 3,000 a person a trip. However, if the length of stay abroad did not exceed five days, the limit was £C 1,000. The CBC approved applications for higher amounts to cover bona fide expenses without limitation. Prior to August 4, 2003, prior approval was required for the transfer of pensions and for other personal payments exceeding the quantitative or indicative limits. Prior to August 4, 2003, banks provided up to the equivalent of £C 50,000 for medical expenses abroad. Unlimited additional amounts were provided for with the approval of the CBC. For study abroad, there were no limits on payments of tuition fees, but an indicative limit of £C 12,000 applied for living expenses. Amounts above this limit were approved by the CBC for bona fide living expenses. Wages earned by legally employed nonresidents in Cyprus may be transferred abroad with- out any quantitative restriction through authorized dealers. In order to establish the bona fide nature of the transaction, foreign workers must present authorized dealers with their employment permit and contract. Authorized dealers may issue credit or debit cards valid abroad to any resident. On August 4, 2003, the limit on cash withdrawals of the equivalent of £C 1,000 a trip was lifted. Authorized dealers may effect payments for royalties and license fees in accordance with relevant agreements. They may also carry out payments for subscription/membership fees, consulting/legal fees, and other services, up to the equivalent of £C 500,000. For larger amounts, CBC approval is required and is granted in bona fide cases. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 279 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Generally, receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. However, residents expecting to make payments may deposit proceeds from invisibles in foreign currency ac- counts with authorized dealers, subject to the requirement that at the end of each year, bal- ances that are not necessary for payments in foreign currency during the next three months must be converted into Cyprus pounds. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Effective August 4, 2003, the ceiling on the acquisition of shares of banks listed on the Cyprus Stock Exchange (CSE) in the amount of 50% of each bank's issued capital no longer applies. The acquisition of shares of public companies listed on the CSE by natural or juridical per- sons from EU member states is unrestricted, while the aggregate participation in the share capital of such companies, except banks, by other nonresident persons is subject to a 49% limit. Public companies and stockbrokers are authorized to carry out the relevant transactions with nonresidents without reference to the CBC, subject to the limit described above. Securities issued by nonresidents may be admitted to the CSE (currently none is listed on the CSE), but residents are not generally permitted to purchase them. Effective August 4, 2003, authorized dealers are allowed to approve applications by nonresidents for transfer abroad of proceeds from the sale of securities quoted on the CSE without limit (previously, up to the equivalent of £C 500,000) and without reference to the CBC. Resident natural persons 18 years or older may transfer abroad up to the equivalent of £C 50,000 a year to purchase securities on stock exchanges listed in EU countries or shares in mutual funds in transferable securities that f u l f i ll EU requirements. Alternatively, part or all of this amount may be deposited in accounts with foreign banks or used to pay for life insurance or other investment plans offered by insurance companies. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to the ceilings described above for purchases by nonresidents. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase bonds admitted to the CSE, inc lud ing bonds issued by public companies and government bonds denominated in Cyprus pounds. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities issued by nonresidents may be admitted to the CSE (currently no such securities are listed on the CSE), but residents are not generally permitted to purchase them. Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments The purchase of debt securities abroad by residents is generally subject to the same rules as the purchase of shares or other securities of a participating nature. For example, natural persons may transfer abroad a maximum of £C 50,000 a year or equivalent to purchase either debt or equity securities listed on stock exchanges in EU countries. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior approval of the CBC is required for residents to purchase such instruments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 280 CYPRUS Purchase abroad by residents Purchases of these securities are subject to the regulations governing purchases of capital securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is required. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Acquisition of securities issued by public investment companies in Cyprus is unrestricted for natural and juridical persons from EU member countries and is subject to a ceiling of 49% for other nonresident persons. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities issued by nonresidents may be admitted to the CSE, but residents are not generally permitted to purchase them. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases of these instruments by residents are subject to the regulations that govern purchases of capital market securities. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval of the CBC is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents There are controls on all transactions in derivatives and other instruments. Credits with a maturity of up to 180 days for the export of goods from Cyprus may be freely provided by authorized dealers. Controls on short-term lending in foreign currencies to nonresidents were eliminated. Other credits require approval of the CBC, To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents other than authorized dealers are not allowed to grant these credits without the approval of the CBC. To residents from nonresidents Short-term borrowing is subject to approval by the CBC. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Authorized dealers may issue these guarantees without reference to the CBC in certain cases, including tender guarantees up to 5% of the tender price, performance bonds up to 10% of the contract price, guarantees for the refund of advance payments, and guarantees in respect to any other transactions for which an immediate payment to the nonresident beneficiary could be made under the existing exchange control rules. In other cases, prior approval of the CBC is required. Effective August 5, 2003, the transfer of capital abroad may be effected without referral to the CBC on presentation of documentation showing the bona fide nature of the transaction. Previously, investment projects requiring the transfer of foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of £C 5 m i l l ion a year had to be referred to the CBC, which reserved the right to postpone the transfer of foreign exchange if it deemed it necessary. Inward direct investment from EU member countries is unrestricted, but investments from non-EU countries are subject to controls related to maximum percentage participation and m in imum equity capital. Permission of the CBC for the repatriation of the proceeds of sale or liquidation of ap- proved investments (including capital gains) is readily granted at any time after payment of taxes. Each resident fam i ly may transfer abroad up to the equivalent of £C 200,000 to acquire a secondary residence abroad. In accordance with the Immovable Property Acquisition (Aliens) Law, the acquisition of immovable property in Cyprus by nonresidents is subject to the approval of the District ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 281 Officer —and the purchase must be made with foreign exchange (acquisition of immovable property by inheritance is not subject to these requirements). When the real estate concerned exceeds two donums (one donum = 1,338 m2), approval is granted only in the following cases: (1) a primary or secondary residence not exceeding three donums; (2) professional or commercial premises; or (3) premises for industry sectors deemed beneficial to the Cypriot economy. Nonresidents of Cypriot origin do not need to obtain the approval of the District Officer. Effective August 4, 2003, proceeds from the sale of immovable property are transferable abroad without limit, provided appropriate documentation is submitted to authorized deal- ers. Proceeds were previously transferable abroad without limitation, if the real estate was acquired with foreign exchange; otherwise, the proceeds of the sale were transferable at the rate of £C 1 million or equivalent or one-third of the total amount, whichever was larger, a calendar year. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Prior approval of the CBC is required. TO residents from nonresidents Short-term borrowing is subject to CBC approval. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Effective August 4, 2003, limits on transfers of gifts, endowments, inheritances, and lega- cies by parents to nonresident children were lifted, provided appropriate documentation is submitted to authorized dealers. Previously, resident parents could transfer any amount of gifts or endowments to each of their nonresident children at the rate of £C 1 million or the equivalent, or one-third of the requested amount, whichever was larger, a year, with proper documentation. Also prior to August 4, 2003, prior CBC approval was required for other gifts or endow- ments exceeding the equivalent of £C 2,000 every six months, while no prior approval was required for the transfer of funds inherited from residents by nonresidents. All funds inher- ited by nonresidents were transferable abroad at the rate of £C 1 million or the equivalent, or one-third of the total amount, whichever was larger, a year, provided appropriate docu- mentation was submitted to authorized dealers. In cases where the immigrant debtor does not maintain suff ic ient balances in foreign currency or external accounts to repay a debt abroad, approval of the CBC is granted for repayment through local funds. Effective August 4, 2003, emigrants may transfer, at the time of departure, all their local funds. Previously, emigrants could transfer abroad up to the equivalent of £C 100,000 of their local funds. After their settlement abroad, they could transfer any remaining local funds over a maximum period of two years. In addition, emigrants who were Cypriot repa- triates (i.e., residents of Cyprus who were previously residents of other countries and de- cided to emigrate again from Cyprus) could transfer abroad at the time of emigration all of their funds that they had previously transferred to Cyprus and converted into local funds. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Prior approval from the CBC is required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Maintenance of accounts abroad Authorized dealers are allowed to maintain accounts abroad, subject to the net open posi- tions in foreign exchange as described below. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Authorized dealers are allowed to grant loans in foreign currencies with a maturity of up to 10 years to nonresidents, subject to the liquid asset requirements prescribed by the CBC for prudential reasons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 282 CYPRUS Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Authorized dealers are allowed to lend any amount in local currency to nonresidents to finance their activities in Cyprus, provided the loan proceeds are not converted into foreign currency. Such transactions do not require referral to the CBC. Authorized dealers may grant medium- and long-term credits in foreign currency to resi- dents without referring to the CBC (subject to the liquid asset requirements prescribed by the CBC for prudential reasons). For short-term lending to residents, approval of the CBC is required. These are subject to liquid asset requirements prescribed for prudential reasons. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange The monetary regulations applied to accounts in foreign currencies, held either by nonresi- dents or by residents, are different from those applied to accounts in Cyprus pounds. Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements A minimum reserve requirement of 6.5% applies only to deposits in Cyprus pounds. Effective March 1, 2003, liquid assets in foreign currencies equal to at least 75% (previously, 70%) of deposit liabilities in foreign currencies must be maintained. For deposits in Cyprus pounds, there is no prescribed liquidity ratio. However, the liquidity positions of banks are monitored by the CBC for prudential purposes using a maturity mismatch approach. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Nonresidents' deposit accounts in foreign exchange or in domestic currency are not treated differently from deposit accounts of residents. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Banks may acquire assets abroad in accordance with the CBC directive establishing the framework within which banks may utilize the funds derived from foreign currency depos- its from customers. Banks may also undertake direct investment abroad. In banks by nonresidents The acquisition of 10% or more of a bank's share capital by any resident or nonresident person, either alone or with any associates, is subject to prior approval of the CBC. Open foreign exchange position limits The net open/uncovered overnight (intraday) position in any one foreign currency and the overall aggregate net position in all foreign currencies are 3% (5%) and 6% (8%), respectively, of the authorized dealer's capital base. Higher amounts require prior CBC permission. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Effective January 1, 2003, exchange control restrictions on investments of insurance companies were lifted; these investments are subject only to EU rules on currency matching. Previously, insurance companies were able to invest abroad up to 25% of their trust fund, in securities quoted on a number of foreign stock exchanges specified in the relevant directives issued by the MOF. Public investment companies were able to also invest abroad in securities quoted on foreign stock exchanges up to 50% of their capital and reserves (net worth), or the equivalent of £C 20 million, whichever was less. The CBC approved applications by other institutional investors on a case-by-case basis. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws The Cyprus Stock Exchange and Securities Laws and the regulations issued under these laws apply to transactions by nonresidents and residents in a nondiscriminating manner. Resident accounts May 28. Local companies wholly owned by nonresidents were allowed to maintain external or foreign currency accounts with banks in Cyprus, or in accounts in banks abroad. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 283 Imports and import payments August 4. Authorized dealers were allowed to sell the equivalent of £C 100,000 (previously, £C 50,000) for purchases of goods to be imported into Cyprus. Exports and export proceeds August 4. Restrictions on prepayments for imports were lifted. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions August 4. The requirement of CBC approval for commissions in excess of 10% of the value of exported goods and services was l if ted. Effective the same date, the requirement of CBC approval for transfers of pensions and other personal payments exceeding quantitative or indicative limits was l i f ted. August 4. Authorized dealers were allowed to issue unlimited foreign exchange for particu- lar travel, medical, and educational living expenses. Previously, CBC approval was re- quired for amounts in excess of the equivalent of £C 3,000, £C 50,000, and £C 12,000, respectively. August 4. Authorized dealers were allowed to effect payments for invisible transactions on presentation of appropriate documentation, without referring to the CBC. Previously, CBC approval was required for amounts in excess of the equivalent of £C 500,000 with respect to some invisible payments. August 4. The limit on credit/debit card cash withdrawals of £C 1,000 or equivalent per trip was lifted. August 4. All restrictions on payments and transfers for invisibles and current transfers were lifted. August 4. The 50% ceiling on nonresident participation in the share capital of domestic banks listed on the CSE was l if ted. Also, the transfer abroad of the proceeds of the sale of shares no longer required approval of the CBC. August 5. Administrative procedures for outward direct investment were simplified further. Authorized dealers were allowed to effect capital transfers for direct investment projects in excess of £C 5 million or equivalent a year without reference to the CBC, provided appropriate documentation is provided to authorized dealers. August 4. Proceeds from the sale of real estate may be freely remitted abroad upon submis- sion of appropriate documentation to authorized dealers. Previously, such transfers were effected at the rate of £C 1 million or equivalent or one-third of the total amount, whichever was largest, a calendar year. August 4. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies granted by parents to their nonresi- dent children, as well as inheritances are freely transferable abroad. Previously, such trans- fers were effected at the rate of £C 1 million or equivalent or one-third of the total amount, whichever was largest, a year. Gifts to other nonresident persons are freely transferable abroad, provided authorized deal- ers are satisfied the transaction is genuine. Previously, there was a limit of the equivalent of £C 2,000 biannually. Emigrants may transfer abroad, at the time of departure, all their local funds. Previously, emigrants could transfer the equivalent of £C 100,000 in local funds upon departure, and the remainder of local funds, over a period of two years thereafter. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions March L The liquid asset requirement for deposits in foreign currencies was increased to at least 75% of total deposit liabilities in foreign currencies, from 70%. Provisions specific to institutional investors January L Exchange control restrictions on investments by insurance companies were lifted. These investments are now subject only to the rules for currency matching adopted by the EU. Arrangements for payments and receipts May L The Exchange Control Law was repealed. Changes During 2004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 1, 1995. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Czech Republic is the Czech koruna. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The external value of the koruna is determined by supply and demand in the foreign ex- change market. The Czech National Bank (CNB) may intervene in the foreign exchange market in order to smooth large intraday volatility swings of the euro-koruna rate. Effective January 2, 2004, the CNB publishes daily rates of 29 selected currencies against the koruna for customs and accounting purposes (previously, daily rates were announced for 16 currencies). Commercial banks set their own exchange rate with no limitation. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The MOF and the CNB are responsible for the administration of exchange controls and regulations, in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Act. In general, the MOF exercises authority over ministries and other administrative authorities, municipal authorities, budg- etary organizations, state funds, and all types of credits being extended to or accepted by the Czech Republic. The CNB exercises authority over the activities of all other agents. There are blocked accounts in connection with embargoes against the Islamic State of Afghanistan and the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. No. No. There are reporting requirements on exports and imports exceeding CZK 350,000. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 285 Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. There are blocked accounts in connection with embargoes against the Islamic State of Afghanistan and the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Yes. Automatic import licenses are required for some agricultural and food products, tobacco and tobacco products, raw materials, fuels and mineral oils, chemical products and products of similar industries, used textile products, toxic substances, auxiliary chemical substances, certain seeds and plants, pharmaceutical products, certain steel products, and waste. For some armaments, a security license is required. Nonautomatic import licenses are required for sugar from the Slovak Republic and black coal from Ukraine and Poland. All imports are subject to an ad valorem customs duty of up to 29.4% for industrial goods and up to 125% for agricultural goods. Imports are also subject to a value-added tax of 5% or 22%. Under a customs union agreement, imports from the Slovak Republic are exempt from customs duties. Imports from developing countries are granted preferences. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Automatic export licenses are required for some raw materials; raw leathers; wood and wooden products; precious and common metals; iron and steel products (when exported to the EU and the United States); toxic substances; auxiliary chemical substances and precur- sors; pharmaceutical products; and waste. For some armaments, a security license is re- quired. Nonautomatic export licenses are required for textile goods exported to Canada and the United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 286 CZECH REPUBLIC Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Nonresidents' foreign participation in the air transport sector may not exceed 49% of total participation. No. No. There are controls on investment by nonresidents in the air transport sector. In order to register an aircraft, obtain a license to operate an air transportation enterprise as a Czech company, or obtain a Czech air-operating certificate, the entity must be a natural or a ju- ridical person domiciled in the Czech Republic; Czech residents must hold at least 51% of the capital and voting rights; and Czech residents must have an effective influence on the management and fu ll control of the activities of the enterprise. To carry out air taxi trans- port services, it is necessary only to be a resident of the Czech Republic. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents A nonresident who is not a citizen of the Czech Republic may acquire real estate only in the following cases: (1) by inheritance; (2) for the diplomatic representation of a foreign coun- try under the terms of reciprocity; (3) through unapportioned co-ownership of a married couple of which only one is a nonresident, or where a nonresident acquires property from a husband, wife, parents, or grandparents; (4) through the exchange of domestic real estate owned by the nonresident for other domestic real estate, the normal price of which does not exceed the normal price of the former real estate; (5) if the nonresident has a preemption by reason of a proportioned co-ownership of real estate; (6) if it is a construction built by a nonresident on his own land; and (7) under the terms explicitly stipulated by several acts on restitution and privatization. Nonresident legal entities that have an enterprise or branch and are authorized to conduct business in the Czech Republic may acquire the ownership rights to real estate, except in the agricultural and forestry sectors. Controls on personal capital transactions No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 287 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits Open foreign exchange limits are applied on both on- and off-balance sheet exposures; they are 20% of the capital for all currencies and 15% for open koruna positions. Provisions specific to institutional investors Credit unions, insurance companies, and pension funds may place their assets abroad, sub- ject to specific prudential regulations. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2004 Exchange arrangement January 2. The number of currencies for which the CNB publishes daily rates was in- creased to 29 from 16. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 1, 1967. Currency The currency of Denmark is the Danish krone. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Denmark participates in the ERM II and maintains the spot exchange rate between the Danish krone and the euro within margins of ±2.25% around the central rate. No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Measures have been taken to freeze accounts belonging to the Taliban and members of terrorist groups. Persons or organizations whose accounts are frozen will not be able to engage in any financial transactions through these accounts. No accounts have yet been frozen, however. These measures have been taken in accordance with the relevant UN and EU resolutions. In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, cer- tain restrictions are maintained on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions with respect to Haiti, Myanmar, Zimbabwe, and certain individuals as- sociated with the former governments of Iraq and the former Republic of Yugoslavia. In accordance with EU Regulation No. 147/2003, effective January 27, 2003, financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia are prohibited. Restrictions also apply on transfers with respect to the Taliban and individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Exports and imports of banknotes exceeding the equivalent of €15,000 must be declared to customs. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Yes. Resident Accounts 288 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses DENMARK 289 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A few items originating in Japan and the Republic of Korea require a license. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, China, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, Sri Lanka, the Baltic countries, Russia, the other countries of the former Soviet Union, and Vietnam. Licenses with quotas Licenses are required for imports of textiles, toys, and footwear. Special rules apply on agricultural products. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Except for certain items subject to strategic controls, licenses are required only for exports of certain metals in waste or scrap form. Special rules apply on exports of waste in general. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 290 DENMARK Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. Purchases require approval from the Ministry of Justice, except in the case of acquisitions by (1) persons who were formerly residents of Denmark for at least five years; (2) EU and EEA nationals working in Denmark who are in possession of a valid EU/EEA residence permit and EU- or EEA-based companies operating in Denmark for residential or business purposes; and (3) EU nationals who are entitled to reside in Denmark in accordance with Directives 90/364/EEC, 90/365/EEC, and 93/96/EEC. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions The Consolidated Act contains prudential regulations covering capital adequacy, liquidity, and large exposures. These regulations are in accordance with the relevant EU directives. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition A 60% l im it applies to holdings of foreign equity securities (denominated in euros) by private insurance companies and pension funds. The limit is 20% for holdings in other currencies. Insurance companies are regulated by the "balance principle," which determines that consistency must be ensured between assets and liabilities denominated in the same currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. Financing of and f inanc ial assistance related to military activities in Somalia were prohibited. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 19, 1980. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement The Djibouti franc is pegged to the dollar, the intervention currency, at DF 177.721 per $1. The official buying and selling rates for currencies other than the dollar are set by local banks and money changers on the basis of the cross rates for the dollar in international markets. The fu ll issue of Djibouti francs is covered by foreign exchange reserves. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control No. No. No. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. Payments arrears Official Bilateral agreements have been reached with several Paris Club creditors. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Resident Accounts 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 292 DJIBOUTI Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Advance import deposits are permitted up to a certain percentage of the value of imports. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. Yes. Formal customs duties are not imposed on imports, but, in practice, fiscal duties are levied by means of the general consumption tax on imports at three rates (8%, 20%, and 33%). Certain products, including alcoholic beverages, noncarbonated mineral water, petroleum products, qat, and tobacco, are subject to a surtax. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI 293 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. There are controls on all credit transactions of residents with nonresidents, including trans- actions in the form of guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities within the limits established by the banking regulations for the purpose of complying with the prudential standard on customer risk. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 294 DJIBOUTI Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition There is a matching requirement with respect to both the amount of the transaction and the currency of denomination, as well as with respect to maturity and interest rate. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 13, 1979. Currency The currency of Dominica is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, issued by the ECCB. Exchange Arrangement Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar under a currency board arrangement at EC$2.70 per US$1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with residents of the territories participating in the ECCB Agreement must be made in Eastern Caribbean dollars; those with member countries of the CARICOM must be made in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency that is acceptable to the country where the settlement is being made. Payments arrangements Yes. Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Dominica is a member of the CARICOM. As a member of the CARICOM, Dominica participates in the CMCF. Exchange control is administered by the MOF and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The MOF has delegated to commercial banks certain powers to approve sales of foreign currencies but requires that any individual foreign currency transaction in excess of EC$250,000 must be approved by the MOF. Exchange controls are not applied to authorized import payments. The Ministry of Trade administers import and export arrangements and controls. International security restrictions Trade with Iraq is prohibited. In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. Payments arrears Official Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only, Small quantities of gold may be imported for industrial purposes only with the approval of the MOF. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 296 DOMINICA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The exportation of Eastern Caribbean dollar notes and coins outside the ECCB area is limited to amounts prescribed by the ECCB. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts These accounts are normally confined to major exporters and may only be credited with foreign currencies obtained abroad. Payments from these accounts do not require approval. Yes. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Yes. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency For any single transaction in excess of EC$250,000, approval from the MOF is required. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon presentation of documentary evidence of purchase to a commercial bank. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs All imports from Iraq are prohibited. Imports of specified goods originating from non-OECS countries, Belize, and CARICOM countries require a license. Imports of a subset of these goods from the more developed countries of the CARICOM (Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago) also require a license. Certain goods require a license for public health or safety reasons. There are certain quantitative restrictions on imports of beverages, f lour, and margarine; quotas are allocated to traditional importers based on their historical market shares. Most rates are ad valorem. Dominica applies the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET. The maximum tariff on most non-CARICOM goods is 20%. Lower rates apply to machinery (zero to 15%) and some essential foodstuffs (10% to 15%), while higher rates apply to domestic appliances (25% to 40%) and motor vehicles (25% to 45%). Specific duties are applied to some goods. Imports are also subject to a 1% customs service charge. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA 297 State import monopoly Bulk imports of sugar and rice are effected by a state agency. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements The conversion of export proceeds to an ECCB currency account is mandatory, unless the exporter has a foreign currency account to which the proceeds may be credited. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports to Iraq are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the exportation of protected plant and animal species to any destination. Yes. Bananas exported by the Dominica Banana Marketing Corporation are subject to a levy of 1% if the export price is between ECS0.55 and ECS0.60 a pound; if the export price exceeds EC$0.60 a pound, an additional levy equivalent to 25% of the excess is imposed. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign currency in amounts up to the equivalent of EC$250,000. Amounts over this limit require approval by the MOF, which is generally granted. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are controls on payments for fam i ly maintenance and alimony, medical expenses, remittances of pensions, and studies. Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona f ide tests apply to payments of medical expenses. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Earnings of foreign workers may be remitted after settlement of all taxes and other public liabilities. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 298 DOMINICA Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test The limit for subscriptions and membership fees is EC$250,000 a transaction. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign currency proceeds from these transactions must be sold to a bank or deposited into a foreign currency account. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments All outward transfers of capital in excess of EC$250,000 require MOF approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Controls on credit operations All credit operations by residents to nonresidents require MOF approval. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Direct investments abroad exceeding EC$250,000 must be effected in installments and require approval by the Financial Secretary. Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Nonresidents are generally required to have an alien landholding license to hold shares in private and public companies and to hold property. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA 299 Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Proceeds may be remitted after the discharge of any related liabilities. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents An alien landholding license is required. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Yes. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. MOF approval is required. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions are generally not permitted. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position as of March 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 1, 1953. Currency Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Independently floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Dominican peso. On January 1, 2004, the foreign exchange market was un if ied, leading to the transfer of external debt payments to the private market. Previously, there were three exchange rates: the off ic ial exchange rate set by the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic (CBDR), the rate used by commercial banks for foreign exchange transactions with the public, and the extrabank market rate determined by foreign exchange transactions with exchange houses. On October 6, 2003, all private sector transactions began to be settled on the private free market. In January 2004, the authorities ceased their policy of intervening in the foreign exchange market to manage the exchange rate. Previously, the CBDR intervened occasionally in the market via a foreign exchange desk that managed purchases and sales of foreign exchange for the CBDR, the commercial banks, and foreign exchange dealers. As a result, effective January 31, 2004, the exchange rate arrangement of the Dominican Republic has been reclassified to the category independently floating from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. The reference exchange rate is set daily by the CBDR as the weighted average of the previous day's rate at commercial banks and exchange houses. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through two accounts that were established under reciprocal credit agree- ments within the framework of the LAI A. Imports (debits) and exports (credits) are re- corded in these accounts, and all payments must be invoiced in dollars. All other transac- tions must be expressed in domestic currency; however, transactions between residents and nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency. Contracts in foreign currency are legally b ind ing. Yes. Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts Settlements take place under reciprocal credit agreements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela. Administration of control Exchange control policy is determined by the Monetary Board and administered by the CBDR. 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 301 International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Travelers are allowed to export up to RD$20,000 in domestic banknotes and RD$100 in coins. Travelers are allowed to export up to US$10,000 or the equivalent. Travelers are allowed to import up to RD$20,000 in domestic banknotes and up to RD$100 in coins. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Resident corporations and individuals may locally maintain savings or time deposit ac- counts in dollars or in any other freely convertible foreign currency at banks authorized to offer full services. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Accounts denominated in Dominican pesos are convertible against other currencies. Eco- nomic agents may enter into transactions involving foreign currencies on freely negotiated terms, in accordance with the general rules and regulations governing contracts. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident corporations and individuals may locally maintain savings or time deposit accounts in dollars or in any other freely convertible foreign currency at banks authorized to offer fu ll services. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Effective October 6, 2003, all imports are settled on the private free market. Previously, oil transactions were effected through the CBDR at the official rate on behalf of the REFIDOMSA (Refmeria Dominicana de Petrolio); all other imports had to be settled through commercial banks and were subject to documentary requirements. Positive list This list includes beans, corn, garlic, milk, onions, poultry, rice, and sugar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 302 Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Imports of live animals; seeds; plants; fruits; plant and animal products that are unhealthy, decomposing, or infected with germs or parasites; and substances harmful or injurious to human, plant, or animal health are prohibited. Imports of beans, corn, garlic, milk, onions, poultry, rice, and refined sugar require licenses. There are five tariff rates: zero, 3%, 8%, 14%, and 20%. A commission of 10% is charged on all imports, and it is collected by the General Directorate of Customs. There is a tempo- rary import system for the entry, free of import duties and taxes, of certain goods that are to be reexported within a maximum of 18 months of being processed, worked, or repaired. In addition, there is a zero rate for imports of inputs, machinery, and equipment to be used in the textile and agricultural sectors. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for sugar and textile exports to the United States. Bananas are subject to quantitative restrictions in the EU, as are coffee and cocoa in the markets of signatories to the International Coffee and Cocoa Agreement. On January 6, 2004, a temporary common levy of 5% was imposed on gross proceeds from exports of domestic goods and services for a period of six months. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All invisible payments may be made freely through commercial banks, subject to documen- tation requirements. Investment-related payments No controls are exercised on the transfer of profits. Personal payments Foreign workers' wages Prior approval No controls are exercised on the transfer of pensions and family maintenance payments. Prior approval of the president of the Republic is required for the hiring of Haitian workers to harvest sugarcane. Other payments Technical assistance fees must be registered with the CBDR. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Surrender requirements Effective October 6, 2003, surrender requirements were lifted. Previously, certain receipts (e.g., for international phone calls and credit card operations, as well as operations of for- eign embassies) had to be surrendered to the CBDR. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 303 Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities The transactions are regulated under the Law on the Securities Market and, effective January 1, 2003, by the newly established Superintendency of Securities. The local capital market is still emerging. Shares and bonds are not yet traded. Only the primary market's own operations are carried out using commercial paper denominated in domestic currency. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Prior CBDR approval is required. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Banks and credit institutions may extend direct or indirect loans and guarantees to a single resident or nonresident individual or legal entity for up to 10% of their paid-up capital and reserves, or up to 20% of capital and reserves if such operations are secured with first-rank mortgages or real guarantees. External debt may be contracted directly by the central government, subject to congres- sional authorization. New loans by other public entities require authorization from the president of the Republic for their subsequent registration with the Monetary Board. Private external debt must be registered with the CBDR, except for foreign exchange advances on future traditional exports, which require approval from the CBDR. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Full-service banks must request prior CBDR authorization to issue foreign currency guar- antees, other than for trade operations. External short-term financing by banks authorized to offer fu ll service is limited to 20% of paid-up capital and reserves. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Full-service banks and other credit institutions may invest up to 20% of their paid-up capi- tal in branches, agencies, or representative offices abroad, as well as make equity invest- ments in foreign financial institutions. Effective March 31, 2004, full-service banks wish- ing to invest abroad or to open cross-border entities must fu l f i ll certain minimum requirements. Investments must be registered with the CBDR. Investment in the following sectors is pro- hibited: (1) disposal of toxic waste and dangerous or radioactive substances not produced in the country; (2) activities that affect public health and the environment; and (3) production of materials and equipment that affect defense and national security. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants No. No. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 304 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Credit controls Banks authorized to offer f u ll services may obtain financing abroad for up to one year, subject to a l im it of 30% of their paid-up capital and reserves. Banks authorized to offer fu ll services may grant loans in dollars up to 100% of their for- eign exchange resources that are held in the form of savings or time deposits to the sectors exporting goods and services for the purpose of financing activities specific to their opera- tions and to the importing sectors for the purpose of covering payments abroad to acquire goods and services. The reserve requirement ratio is 20% for both domestic and foreign currency deposits. Ef- fective February 6, 2003, reserve requirements on foreign currency deposits must be held at the CBDR. Previously, they had to be held at foreign banks with an AAA classification or the equivalent. On March 23, 2004, the structure of the 20% reserve requirement for do- mestic currency deposits was changed to allow the banks to retain up to 5% (i.e., one-fourth of the reserve requirement), with the remainder to be retained at the CBDR. In addition, banks are required to hold 5% of their domestic currency liabilities at the CBDR in 30-day certificates at an annual interest rate of 15%. Banks and credit institutions may extend direct or indirect loans and guarantees to a single resident or nonresident individual or legal entity for up to 10% of their paid-up capital and reserves, and up to 20% of capital and reserves if such operations are secured with first- rank mortgages or real guarantees. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits The net short or long positions of full-service banks are subject to exchange risk controls. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement October 6. All private sector transactions began to be settled on the private free market. Imports and import payments October 6. All imports began to be settled through the private market. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers October 6. The surrender requirements for certain transactions were lifted. Previously, certain receipts (e.g., for international phone calls, international credit card operations, and operations of foreign embassies) had to be surrendered to the CBDR. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 305 Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. The Superintendency of Securities began operations. February 6. Reserve requirements on foreign currency deposits were required to be held at the CBRD (previously, they had to be held at foreign banks with an AAA classification or the equivalent). Exchange arrangement January 1. The foreign exchange market was unified, leading to the transfer of external debt payments to the private market. Changes During 2004 Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions Controls on direct investment Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 31. As a result of the authorities' ceasing to intervene in the foreign exchange market to manage the exchange rate, the exchange rate arrangement of the Dominican Re- public was reclassified to the category independently floating from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. January 6. A temporary levy of 5% was imposed on gross proceeds from exports of goods and services for a period of six months. March 31. Full-service banks wishing to invest abroad or to open cross-border entities were required to fu l f i ll certain minimum requirements. March 23. The structure of the 20% reserve requirement for domestic currency deposits was changed to allow banks to retain up to 5% (i.e., one-fourth) of the reserve requirements, with the remainder to be kept at the CBDR. Banks were required to hold an additional 5% of their domestic currency liabilities at the CBDR to be covered by 30-day certificates at an annual interest rate of 15%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position as of December 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 31, 1970. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ecuador is the U.S. dollar. A limited issue of domestic coins of small value remains in circulation to facilitate small transactions. These are fully backed by dollars. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The currency of Ecuador is the U.S. dollar, which circulates freely. No. No. Banks and other financial institutions authorized to conduct foreign exchange transactions are permitted to conduct forward swaps and options, and transactions in other financial derivative instruments, subject to the supervision and control of the Superintendency of Banks. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Exchange proceeds from all countries, except LAI A member countries, must be received in convertible currencies. Whenever possible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Some settlements with Hungary are made through bilateral accounts. There are arrangements with Cuba and Hungary; balances are settled every four months. Payments between Ecuador and the other LAIA countries may be made within the frame- work of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control Public sector foreign exchange transactions are carried out exclusively through the Central Bank of Ecuador (CBE). Exports must be registered with the CBE to guarantee repatriation of any foreign exchange proceeds from the transaction. Private sector foreign exchange transactions related to the exportation, production, transportation, and commercialization of oil and its derivatives may be carried out through the financial market. Private sector for- eign exchange transactions may be effected through banks and exchange houses authorized by the Central Bank Board (CBB). International security restrictions Payments arrears No. Yes. Official Private Arrears are maintained with respect to public and publicly guaranteed debt-service pay- ments to official creditors. On June 13, 2003, an agreement was reached with Paris Club creditors to reschedule eligible maturities. Commercial banks under the control of the Deposit Insurance Agency maintain external payments arrears on trade and interbank credit lines. 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 307 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Accounts in domestic currency held abroad The U.S. dollar is used as domestic currency, and no distinction is made between accounts in U.S. dollars held domestically and those held abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency The U.S. dollar is used as domestic currency and balances may be converted into foreign currency without restriction. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Advance payment requirements Prepayments for imports by the private sector are permitted. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs No. Prior import licenses are required for agricultural, medical, and psychotropic imports. In addition, Petroecuador (the state oil company) may, without a license, import supplies, materials, and equipment during emergencies. Imports of psychotropics, used vehicles, used tires, and used clothes are prohibited, primar- ily to protect the environment and public health. Imports of antiques and certain items re- lated to health and national security are also prohibited. Certain imports require prior au- thorization from government ministries or agencies for ecological, health, and national security reasons. Tariff rates for most goods are zero, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, and 35%. Automobiles are sub- ject to a 35% rate calculated on the basis of a set of reference prices. Variable tariffs under a price band system are applied to about 140 agricultural products. Under an agreement with the WTO, tariff rates for goods subject to price bands are bound at 45%. Discrimina- tory excise taxes are in place against a limited number of goods, including automobiles, beer, liquors, soft drinks, and cigarettes. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 308 ECUADOR Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements All export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized financial entities. However, export- ers may retain up to 15% from their surrender requirement to cover the actual cost of con- sular fees and commissions paid abroad. The surrender requirement does not apply to ex- ports effected under authorized barter transactions or to exports to countries with which Ecuador has bilateral payment agreements. In such cases, exporters are required to provide off ic ial documentation from the recipient country establishing the applicable forms of pay- ment. Exporters of marine products are permitted to retain up to 30% of the f.o.b. value of their shipments to cover the actual cost of leasing foreign ships. Minimum reference prices are established for exports of bananas, coffee, fish products, cocoa, and semifinished prod- ucts of cocoa to help ensure that exchange proceeds are fu l ly surrendered. Receipts in for- eign exchange for petroleum exports are effected on the basis of the sale prices stated in the sales contracts and must be surrendered within 30 days of the date of shipment. In addition, exporters may deduct from their surrender requirements the cost of kraft paper and starch or inputs and raw materials imported under the "Industrial Deposits Temporary Admission" regime when exporters require cardboard packing boxes built with kraft paper and starch. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Barter transactions require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, Industriali- zation, Fisheries and Competitiveness, and must be registered with the CBE. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports do not require licenses, but must be registered for statistical purposes. The export prices of bananas, cocoa, coffee, fish, and semifinished cocoa products are sub- ject to minimum reference prices. All crude oil exports were subject to a tax of $0.0002 a barrel. A fee of $1.02 a barrel has been modified by Petroecuador through a tariff table, based on the viscosity of the crude oil and the distance it is transported (in kilometers), and is applied to crude oil exported through the pipeline. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. All foreign loans granted to or guaranteed by the government or off ic ial entities, whether or not they involve the disbursement of foreign exchange, are subject to prior approval from the CBB. A request for such approval must be submitted by the Minister of Finance and Public Credit to the CBB, accompanied by detailed information on the loan contract and the investment projects it is intended to finance. In examining the request, the CBB considers the effects that the loan and the related investment may have on the balance of payments and on monetary aggregates. For public sector entities, the projects to be financed must be included in the General Development Plan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 309 New external credits with a maturity of over one year that are contracted by the private sector, either directly or through the domestic financial system, must be registered with the CBE within 45 days of disbursement. Nonregistered credits are subject to a service charge equivalent to 0.25% of the credit amount. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. Reserve requirements The reserve requirement for accounts denominated in dollars or foreign exchange is 4%. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts June 13. An agreement was reached with Paris Club creditors to reschedule eligible maturities. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of the Arab Republic of Egypt is the Egyptian pound. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative On January 29, 2003, the pound was allowed to float. As a result, the exchange arrange- ment of Egypt was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. The spread between the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) buying and selling rates for foreign exchange is about 0.5%. Previously, the Egyptian pound was pegged to the dollar with all foreign exchange transactions taking place within a ±3% range around the central rate, which was announced by the CBE. Authorized nonbank foreign exchange dealers may buy and sell domestic and foreign means of payment (banknotes and traveler's checks) on their own accounts. These transac- tions are conducted in cash. However, nonbank authorized dealers are not permitted to deal in transfers into or out of the country; they must sell all working-day foreign currency sur- pluses in excess of their authorized operating balances to commercial banks. Effective September 23, 2003, a special exchange rate of LE 5.35 per $1 applies to imports of key foods. No. No. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to conduct forward foreign exchange transac- tions for their own accounts. No prior approval by the CBE is required, and the banks are free to determine the rates applied for forward transactions. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts For countries with which indemnity agreements concerning compensation for nationalized property are in force, certain settlements are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the CBE. The balances of these accounts are minimal. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDKs and are paid by debiting free accounts in foreign currency. Settlements with Sudan are made in accordance with the terms of the bilateral agreement. An account denominated in pounds sterling has been set up to liquidate debts owed to FSU countries under terminated bilateral payments arrangements. There is an inoperative agreement with Sudan. Regional arrangements Egypt is a member of the COMES A. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. Administration of control Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions within the framework of a general authorization without obtaining specific exchange control approval. 310 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 311 International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Banks have been instructed to freeze accounts and assets of listed persons and organiza- tions associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Further, the authorities are establishing the Financial Intelligence Unit, which will coordinate all issues related to money laundering and financial terrorism. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions exist against Libya. Payments arrears There are limited technical payment arrears with certain non-Paris Club creditors. Off ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Banks are not authorized to deal or speculate, on their own or their customers' accounts, in precious metals. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Effective July 16, 2003, travelers may take out up to LE 5,000 (previously, LE 1,000). Amounts exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 must be declared on exit. Effective July 16, 2003, travelers may bring in up to LE 5,000 (previously, LE 1,000). Amounts exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 must be declared on entry. Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Balances may be converted through the foreign exchange market. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted "Free accounts" may be opened in the name of any entity. These accounts may be credited with transfers of convertible currencies from abroad and transfers from other similar ac- counts, foreign banknotes (convertible currencies), and interest earned on these accounts. These accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, transfers to other similar accounts, withdrawals in foreign banknotes by the owner or others, and for payments in Egypt. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 312 EGYPT Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Margin deposits for LCs opened by importers for trading purposes are 100%, and are pay- able in domestic currency. Negative list Most items may be imported freely. Import taxes and/or tariffs Products are classified into seven groups for customs purposes, with tariff rates ranging up to 40%, with several exceptions. Surcharges at rates of 2% and 3% apply to most imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Effective March 24, 2003, private and state-owned exporting companies are required to sell at least 75% of their foreign currency earnings to state-owned banks. This applies retroac- tively to all exports since January 1, 2003. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of raw hides are restricted. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements On March 24, 2003, private and state-owned exporting companies were required to sell at least 75% of their foreign currency earnings to state-owned banks; this applies retroactively to all exports since January 1, 2003. Previously, foreign exchange earned abroad could be held indefinitely abroad or in local free accounts. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no controls on issuing securities in the country by nonresidents. Trading in secu- rities denominated in foreign currencies must be settled in foreign currencies. The foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 313 exchange market may be used for transferring proceeds associated with the sale of both Egyptian securities and foreign securities. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Approval of the Capital Market Authority is required for issuing bonds. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Derivatives do not exist in the Egyptian market. No controls are applied if the maturity of the commercial credits is one year or less and if these credits are received by the private sector. Ministries, governmental administrations, public authorities, and public sector companies are all required to refer to the CBE when borrowing from abroad in convertible currencies, in order to register loans of more than one year. If external loans are used to finance capital goods or projects, such a transaction falls under the state investment plan. There are no general controls, but nonbank companies of foreign exchange dealers should be owned entirely by Egyptians. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Non-Egyptians may not sell property within five years after taking possession thereof. No. Deposits in foreign currencies held by either Egyptian or foreign nationals are subject to a 10% requirement, which must be deposited with the CBE, and are remunerated at the Lon- don interbank bid rate. The reserve ratio requirement for deposits in Egyptian pounds (ex- cluding savings certificates with maturity of more than three years) is 14%, and these de- posits are not remunerated. The requirements for assets in foreign currencies and Egyptian pounds are 25% and 20%, respectively. All banks operating in Egypt (except branches of foreign banks) are prohibited from depos- iting or having investment securities with a foreign bank valued at more than 40% of their capital base or 10% of their total investment abroad, whichever is lower. In accordance with Banking Sector and Money Law No. 88, effective July 16, 2003, the total face value of the shares in these companies owned by a bank (excluding trading securities) may not exceed the value of the bank's capital base. In banks by nonresidents Shareholdings by residents or nonresidents in any bank in Egypt that exceed 10% of the bank's capital require approval from the CBE Board of Directors. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit for each currency (local or foreign) is 10% of Tier I and Tier II capital, and that for total long or short positions is 20% of Tier I and Tier II capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 314 EGYPT Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Exports and export proceeds Changes During 2003 January 29. The Egyptian pound was allowed to float. As a result, the exchange rate re- gime of Egypt was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. September 23. A special exchange rate of LE 5.35 per $1 applicable to key imported foods was introduced. July 16. The limit on export and import of domestic currency banknotes was raised to LE 5,000 from LE I ,000. March 24. Private and state-owned exporting companies were required to sell at least 75% of their foreign currency earnings to state-owned banks. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers March 24. Private and state-owned exporting companies were required to sell at least 75% of their foreign currency earnings to state-owned banks. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions July 16. Banking Sector and Money Law No. 88 came into effect, requiring that the total face value of shares (excluding trading securities) owned by banks may not exceed the bank's capital base. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 6, 1946. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The dollar is the legal tender and circulates freely at a fixed rate of C8.75 per $1. Payments may be made in either dollars or colones. Silver and gold coins in denominations of C150 and C2,500, respectively, are legal tender, but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The dollar is used as a unit of account and a medium of exchange, with no limitations. The Central Reserve Bank (CRB) is obligated to exchange colones in circulation for dollars upon request from banks at a fixed and unalterable exchange rate of C8.75 per $1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Monetary obligations may be contracted in dollars or any other currency and must be settled in the currency specified in the contract. El Salvador is a member of the CACM. All private sector foreign exchange transactions are delegated to the commercial banks and exchange houses. The Centro de Tramites de Exportation issues certificates of origin and health when foreign importers require them. The Salvadoran Coffee Council issues permits freely to private sector traders to conduct external or domestic trade in coffee. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Yes. Yes. There are no restrictions, except as regards anti-money laundering regulations. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Accounts may be denominated in dollars. Resident Accounts 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Nonresident Accounts 316 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Import permits issued by the Ministry of Economy (MOE) are required for ethyl alcohol, sugar, and wheat flour. Imports of lightweight passenger and freight motor vehicles more than 8 years old and heavy passenger and freight vehicles more than 15 years old are not allowed (except collectors' vehicles and vehicles donated to the state or to public service or charitable organizations; those used exclusively by handicapped or disabled persons; those providing a specific service, such as agricultural or industrial work; and those connected with electricity-generating plants, well drills, and water purifiers). Most imports are subject to tariffs, averaging 10%, although higher tariffs are applied to some products, such as automobiles (25-30%); alcoholic beverages (30%); and textiles and luxury goods (20%). There are no tariffs on capital goods and selected inputs. Tariffs on imports of intermediate goods from outside the Central American region are 5-10%, and those on consumer goods are 15%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports must be registered for statistical purposes. Export permits, issued by the MOE, are required for diesel fuel, liquefied petroleum gas, and gray cement. Yes. Exports are not subject to taxes. However, exporters of nontraditional goods to markets outside of Central America are reimbursed for tariffs paid on imported raw materials equal to 6% of the f.o.b. value of the exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR 317 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions All publicly offered securities and their issuers must be registered with the stock exchange. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. No. The foreign investment law limits inward direct investments in economic sectors, such as commerce, industry, certain services, and fisheries (pesca de bajura). Investments in certain public works—e.g., railroads, piers, and canals—require government approval. Foreign direct investments and inflows of capital with a maturity of more than one year must be registered with the MOE for statistical purposes. Certain minimum capital re- quirements exist for businesses owned by foreign residents and those having foreign resi- dent shareholders. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Foreign natural and juridical persons may purchase real estate only if there is a reciprocal arrangement in their home country (an exception is allowed for industrial establishments), up to a maximum of 245 hectares a person. This limit does not apply to cooperative associations or rural community associations, which are subject to specific controls. For statistical purposes, authorized banks are required to report to the CRB all transactions involving sums equivalent to $5,000 or higher. In addition, the anti-money laundering law requires authorized banks to report to the CRB multiple transactions by a single individual involving sums equivalent to $500,000 or higher if there is evidence that the transactions are not bona fide. Effective December 30, 2003, external borrowing by financial institutions is subject to a reserve requirement of 8% (previously, effective July 1, 2003, this rate was increased in- crementally from 5%). The CRB remunerates commercial banks' liquidity reserves on the basis of the federal funds rate quoted by Bloomberg m inus 0.15%. Loans granted by banks to nonresidents or for investment abroad may not exceed 10% of the creditor bank's equity capital. Total loans under this category may not exceed 150% of a bank's equity capital, and the holding of loans by banks above 75% of the equity capital requires authorization subsequent to documentary requirements. Open foreign exchange position limits The l im it on the net foreign asset position of commercial banks is 10% of capital and reserves. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 318 EL SALVADOR On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Pension funds may only invest locally. Insurance companies are permitted to invest abroad up to the limit (20%) specified by law. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2003 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions July 1. The reserve requirement on external borrowing by financial institutions began to be increased gradually from 5%, reaching 8% by December 30, 2003. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign curren- cies are also off ic ia l ly posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.5%, excluding VAT, is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC. This commission is not levied on transfers relating to central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license and domiciled with a bank, sched- uled repayments on loans properly contracted abroad, travel allowances paid by the gov- ernment and its agencies for official missions, and payments of insurance premiums. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Because Equatorial Guinea is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Ac- count, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made freely in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Account countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. Exchange regulations of CAEMC member countries are harmonized. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate General of Banks, Insurance and Rein- surance (DBIR) of the Ministry of Economy, Commerce, and Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (MEF). International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in CAEMC member countries. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Ministry of M in ing (MM), which 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 320 EQUATORIAL GUINEA Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency authorizes either its exportation or its sale in the domestic market. Imports or exports of gold from or to countries outside the CAEMC are subject to authorization by the MM. Exports are allowed only to France and countries that maintain an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Exports of gold to other countries require prior authorization from the MM. Exempt from the requirement of MM authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the CFA franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes in unlimited amounts. All travelers crossing the CAEMC border must declare to customs all foreign exchange and securities exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 1 million. Residents may reexport foreign banknotes up to the amount declared at the time of entry; the reexport of foreign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating their origin. Resident travelers may take with them foreign exchange without authorization according to preestablished schedules based on the reason for travel; amounts in excess of the schedule require authorization. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, the ECB, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Since 1994, the BEAC no longer purchases banknotes and loans from its area of issue from any other central bank. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Resident legal entities may open foreign exchange accounts with MOF authorization and BEAC approval. However, these accounts may not be funded by CFA franc income in cash or by debiting an account in CFA francs. Yes. No restrictions apply to opening and maintaining these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are allowed to open and maintain these accounts. However, these accounts must be reported to the DBIR and must not have debit balances. Because the BEAC suspended the repurchase of its banknotes circulating outside the terri- tories of the CFA franc zone, BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Equatorial Guinea by the Bank of France or the BCEAO may not be credited to foreign accounts in euros. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but prior approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 321 Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports There are no restrictions on import financing, but certified bank documents are required. Minimum financing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import transactions by residents involving goods for use outside Equatorial Guinea must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final destination. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Import licenses are not required, except for imports of gold. Imports of some goods are prohibited for security, health, or safety reasons. Equatorial Guinea applies the common duty rates of the UDEAC on imports from non- members (5% for basic necessities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for in- termediate and miscellaneous goods, and 30% for consumer goods), except for higher rates imposed on a limited number of luxury goods (15% to 40%). Duties on imports from UDEAC members are set at 20% of those for imports from nonmembers. Fiscal duties and turnover taxes are also applied to imports. State import monopoly n.a. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports to all countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Oil companies are exempt from this repatriation requirement. Export proceeds must be surrendered within 30 days following repatriation. No. Yes. Yes. Export transactions valued at the equivalent of CFAF 5 million or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements and the presentation of appropriate documents. No. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments may be made freely, but require prior declaration. All operations valued at the equivalent of CFAF 5 million or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 322 EQUATORIAL GUINEA Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the underlying transactions have been approved. Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test These apply to the payment of freight and insurance costs. Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The transfer of rental income from real property owned in Equatorial Guinea by foreign nationals is permitted for up to 50% of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Indicative limits/bona fide test These apply to payments of profit and dividends. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to countries in the CFA franc zone are allowed to take out BEAC banknotes in any amount. The allowances for travel to countries outside the CFA franc zone are subject to the following regulations: (1) for tourist travel, the limit is the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 a day an adult with a maximum ceiling of CFAF 1 million —the limit is half that amount for children under 10 years old; (2) for busi- ness travel, the limit is the equivalent of CFAF 500,000 a day a person a trip, with a maxi- mum of CFAF 10 million a person a trip; (3) for education, the limit is the equivalent of CFAF 5 million for scholarship for six months plus tuition expenses; (4) for official mis- sion travel, the limit is up to the equivalent of the per diem allowances paid by the govern- ment —if the per diems are less than CFAF 200,000 a day, allowances are the same as for tourist travel; (5) for medical treatment, the limit is the equivalent of CFAF 250,000, with a maximum of CFAF 5 million (a higher amount may be provided if justified); and (6) for any other travel, the allowances are the same as for tourist travel. Requests for allowances in excess of these limits are granted when necessary justification is provided. The reexpor- tation by nonresident travelers of all means of payment registered in their names is not restricted, subject to documentation showing that they were purchased with funds drawn from a foreign account in CFA francs or with other foreign exchange. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The transfer abroad of wages within the CAEMC is unrestricted; transfer outside the CAEMC is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate documentary evidence (e.g., a pay voucher for the relevant period and work contract). Requests to transfer family assistance payments are authorized when justified. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test The use of credit cards, which must be issued by resident financial intermediaries and ap- proved by the MEF, is limited to the ceilings for tourist and business travel allowances. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 323 Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected within one month of the due date. Proceeds earned in countries outside the CFA franc zone must be surrendered within one month of collection if received in foreign currency. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Capital transactions must be reported to the DBIR. Controls on capital and money market instruments No exchange controls apply to capital transfers between Equatorial Guinea and France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but there are no controls on capital receipts from such countries, except for foreign direct investment and borrowing that are subject to registration. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. Controls on credit operations Controls apply on all credit operations. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Certain privileges are granted to approved direct investments, including the unrestricted transfer abroad of debt payments and net profits. Yes. Yes. A bona fide test is applied. Controls on real estate transactions Controls apply on all real estate transactions. Controls on personal capital transactions Controls apply on all personal transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 324 EQUATORIAL GUINEA Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of Eritrea is the Eritrean nakfa. Effective November 3, 2003, a preferential exchange rate of ERN 19 per $1 applies to exports to and remittances from Eritreans living abroad. Authorized banks are o f f ic ia l ly allowed to transact freely in the foreign exchange market; however, the buy ing exchange rate has remained at about ERN 13.5 per $1 since September 2002, although the rate in the informal market has been at a premium of about 50%. The Bank of Eritrea (BE) prescribes a 0.50% commission on sales and a 0.25% commis- sion on purchases of foreign exchange, except for banknote transactions. Authorized deal- ers are permitted, but not required, to levy an additional service charge of up to 0.25% for buying and 0.75% for selling foreign exchange on their own account. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Eritrea is a member of the COMES A. A clearing arrangement exists between the members of the COMES A. The BE oversees all foreign exchange transactions of the authorized dealers. It may from time to time issue regulations, directives, and instructions on foreign exchange matters. The National Licensing Office issues licenses for importers, exporters, and commercial agents; the Ministry of Trade and Industry regulates foreign investments. The Asmara Chamber of Commerce issues certificates of origin for exports. No. No. Authorization from the Ministry of Energy and Mines is required for the ownership or pos- session of gold or other precious metals or ores. Residents may own gold jewelry without restrictions. Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Travelers are not required to declare their foreign currency holdings upon entry or departure. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 326 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts ERITREA Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. The opening of these accounts is restricted to resident banks. n.a. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts are available only to members of the diplomatic community; welfare or- ganizations; nongovernmental organizations and their personnel; and joint ventures and other business firms that invest their capital, wholly or partially, in foreign exchange. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Most imports financed with official foreign exchange are effected under LCs or on a cash- against-documents basis. Advance import deposits These are required only for LC types of imports. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Yes. Yes. Negative list Goods may be imported freely, with some exceptions. Open general licenses All importers must have a valid trade license issued by the National Licensing Office. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system Imports that do not require official foreign exchange and are not aid-funded (franco valuta imports) are no longer subject to a 2% commission. State import monopoly The imports of military materials, weapons, armaments, and the like are conducted by the state. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days of shipment; where justified, this deadline may be extended by another 90 days. Financing requirements Exports may be made under LCs on an advance-payment or a consignment basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ERITREA 327 Documentation requirements All exports require documentation. Certain commodities require clearance from specific government bodies (e.g., the Eritrean Institute of Standards). In particular, livestock and cereals require permission from the Ministry of Agriculture, and marine products require permission from the Ministry of Marine Resources. Letters of credit Guarantees Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. Yes. Exporters must be licensed by the National Licensing Office. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Petroleum contractors and subcontractors may freely transfer abroad funds accruing from petroleum operations and may pay subcontractors and expatriate staff abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Capital Transactions Purchase abroad by residents Authorized banks may acquire securities with the approval of the BE. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 328 ERITREA Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Authorized banks may borrow abroad or overdraw their correspondent accounts abroad. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign direct investment is permitted in all sectors. However, domestic retail and whole- sale trade and import and commission agencies are open to foreign investors only when Eritrea has a bilateral agreement of reciprocity with the country of the investor; this latter condition may be waived by the government. Approved investments and their subsequent expansion are exempt from customs duties and sales tax for capital goods and spare parts associated with the investment. There are no exemptions from income tax. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. Yes. Yes. Borrowing abroad Commercial banks may borrow abroad or overdraw their accounts. Maintenance of accounts abroad Commercial banks may maintain correspondent accounts with their counterparts abroad. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Investment regulations Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Exchange arrangement November 3. A preferential exchange rate of ERN 19 per $1 for exports to and remittances from Eritreans living abroad came into effect. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA (Position as of June 30, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 15, 1994. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Estonia is the Estonian kroon. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement The exchange rate of the kroon is pegged to the euro at the rate of EEK 15.6466 per €1. The Bank of Estonia (BOE) provides commercial banks with the possibility of buying or selling foreign exchange to adjust their kroon liquidity. All transactions are initiated by commercial banks. For licensed credit institutions, the BOE is obliged to exchange euros for Estonian krooni and vice versa without limits. There is no spread between the buying and selling rates of the Estonian kroon against the euro. Transactions in convertible cur- rencies are effected by commercial banks, which are free to quote their own exchange rates. On June 27, 2004, Estonia adopted the ERM II of the EMS. However, the authorities maintain the currency board arrangement without modification. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Estonia has bilateral agreements with Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Latvia, L i thuan ia, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Kroon balances held by the central banks of these countries in their correspondent accounts are f u l ly convertible without delay. No swing credits or overdraft fac i l i t ies are provided by these arrangements. Commercial banks in Estonia are free to open their own correspondent accounts with commercial banks worldwide, including in the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other CIS countries. On May 1, 2004, the free trade agreements concluded with the EFTA, the EU, the Czech Republic, the Faeroe Islands, Hungary, Latvia, L i thuan ia, Poland, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Turkey, and Ukraine were abolished. Administration of control The BOE issues and enforces foreign exchange regulations. The MOF controls and monitors imports and exports, and licenses gold trading. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Estonia applies restrictions in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution Nos. 1076, 1269, 1333, 1368, and 1373 and the measures adopted by the European Union w i th in the framework of the Common Foreign and Security Policy. Payments arrears There are some unsettled balances with Russia and certain other CIS countries that originated in the early 1990s. 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 330 Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) ESTONIA All settlement issues with Russia pertain to official debt. Controls on domestic ownership and/or A license from the MOF is required for companies to trade in gold, trade Controls on external trade Exports and imports of gold are subject to licensing requirements administered by the MOF. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes There are no controls on exports and imports of banknotes, but a customs declaration is required for amounts exceeding the equivalent of EEK 100,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Yes. Open general licenses are required for the following goods: alcohol, food, fuel and energy, medicinal products, narcotics and psychotropic substances, precious metals and stones, radioactive materials and devices, tobacco, and weapons. Licenses or special permits are required to import the following goods: explosives; weapons and ammunition; radio broadcast equipment; plants; seeds; rare species of animals; goods subject to veterinary and phytosanitary controls; certain foods; plant preservatives and fertilizers; medicinal products; narcotics and psychotropic substances; audiovisual recording and production equipment; lottery tickets; strategic goods; radioactive materials; motor vehicles; products that decrease the ozone layer; precious ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA 331 Other nontariff measures Imports of certain dangerous chemicals are prohibited. metals, stones, and articles containing these products; and dangerous and other waste products. Import taxes and/or tariffs Import taxes include custom duties and local taxes on goods (regulated by the Tax Act). Imported goods are subject to a VAT of 18% and excise duties that are levied on specific products, such as tobacco, alcohol, fuel, and packaging materials. Similar taxes are levied on domestically produced goods. The excise tax on motor vehicles was abolished on January 1, 2003. Effective May 1, 2004, the excise tax rate on alcohol, cigars, and cigarillos is harmonized with EU regulations. The harmonization of the rate of excise tax on cigarettes, fue l, and smoking tobacco will have a transition period up to 2010. Effective July 1, 2003, the excise tax and duty rates on cigarettes were raised to EEK 210 for each 1,000 cigarettes and 24% ad valorem (previously EEK 175 for each 1,000 and 23%); the excise tax on smoking tobacco was raised to EEK 220 a kilo from EEK 180 a kilo. Foodstuffs originating from countries with which Estonia has not concluded a free trade agreement are subject to customs duties. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas The export of certain dangerous chemicals is prohibited. Licenses or special permits are required for alcohol; items of cultural value; precious metals, precious stones, and articles containing these products; medicinal products; weapons; explosives; rare species of plants and animals and hunting trophies; goods subject to veterinary and phytosanitary controls; certain foods; narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances; strategic goods; radioactive substances; and toxic and other waste products. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. No. Yes. No. No. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 332 ESTONIA Controls on credit operations Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Financial guarantees to nonresident credit institutions are subject to reserve requirements. On January 1, 2003, foreign capital controls in the maritime transport and security service enterprises were harmonized with EU regulations. Previously, under the Security Service Act, the government was able to limit such participation. On May 1, 2004, foreign capital controls in the aviation sector were harmonized with EU regulations. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Effective January 1, 2003, the regulations on the purchase and sale of land were harmonized with EU regulations. Purchases of more than 10 hectares of agricultural land and forest are subject to approval by the county governor concerned. Acquisition of real estate by non-EEA residents is prohibited in the islands, except for the four largest islands, and in certain local municipalities bordering Russia. Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents There is a control on the transfer of real estate as a gift. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Effective March 1, 2003, credit institutions may not deduct claims to foreign banks from l iab i l i t ies to foreign banks for the purpose of satisfying reserve requirements. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Net liabilities to foreign credit institutions are subject to a reserve requirement. There is no differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents of other sectors. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks' open foreign exchange positions (as a percentage of individual foreign currencies and total position) are subject to prudential limits. Provisions specific to institutional investors There are some limitations to the credit risk of institutional investors. Those applicable to l i fe and non l i fe insurers limit the allocation of committed assets (i.e., assets covering technical reserves) to trustworthy liquid assets (i.e., OECD A-zone and Estonian-regulated market for bonds and fund units, and IOSCO member state markets for shares held for a short term). A pension fund may invest up to 100% of its assets in foreign securities. These securities must be freely tradable and traded in regulated markets of Estonia and EU, EEA, or IOSCO member states, as specified in the fund rules. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. Imports and import payments January 1. The excise tax on motor vehicles was abolished. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ESTONIA 333 Capital transactions Controls on direct investment July L The excise tax and duty rates on cigarettes were raised to EEK 210 for each 1,000 cigarettes and 24% ad valorem (previously, EEK 175 for each 1,000 and 23%); the excise tax on smoking tobacco was raised to EEK 220 a kilo from EEK 180 a kilo. January L Restrictions on foreign capital participation in maritime transport and security service enterprises were eliminated and harmonized with EU regulations. Controls on real estate transactions January L Regulations on the purchase and sale of land were harmonized with EU regulations. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions March L Credit institutions were no longer allowed to deduct claims to foreign banks from liabilities to foreign banks to satisfy reserve requirements. Changes During 2004 Exchange arrangement June 27. Estonia adopted the ERM II of the EMS, although the authorities continued to maintain the currency board arrangement without mod if ica t ion. Arrangements for payments and receipts May L The free trade agreements concluded with the EFTA, the EU, the Czech Republic, the Faeroe Islands, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Turkey, and Ukraine were abolished. Imports and import payments May L The excise tax rate on alcohol, cigars, and cigarillos was harmonized with EU regulations. Capital transactions Controls on direct investment May L Foreign capital controls in the aviation sector were harmonized with EU regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Ethiopia is the Ethiopian birr. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The official exchange rate of the birr against the dollar is determined in the interbank for- eign exchange market as the weighted average exchange rate prevailing on the preceding day. Foreign exchange bureaus are allowed to engage in all approved spot/cash current transactions. Exchange tax Authorized banks must observe a prescribed commission of 1.5% on selling, which accrues to the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE). Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents are not allowed to use foreign currencies among themselves. Payments arrangements Yes. Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Ethiopia is a member of COMES A. Payments may be made within the framework of COMES A. The NBE has transferred to commercial banks the responsibility for determining compliance of buyers and sellers of foreign exchange with import- and export-licensing requirements and foreign exchange regulations. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions n.a. n.a. 334 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 335 Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Import and export exchange licenses are required by the NBE. The ownership of personal jewelry is permitted. However, unless authorized by the Ministry of Mines and Energy, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or platinum, or gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ore, or bullion, is not permitted. Private companies may directly export newly worked gold, silver, and jewelry. Controls on external trade Licenses to import or export gold in any form are issued by the NBE. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Travelers may take out up to Br 100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Except for short-term visitors, travelers must have an authorization to reexport foreign ex- change. Reconversion of birr to foreign exchange of up to the equivalent of $150 may be made without the presentation of any documentary evidence; for amounts exceeding $150, the presentation of authenticated documentary evidence is required, indicating that the equivalent amount of foreign exchange was law fu l ly converted into local currency. On imports Domestic currency Travelers may bring in up to Br 100 in domestic currency. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Commercial banks may open foreign exchange retention accounts for eligible exporters of goods and recipients of inward remittances without prior approval from the NBE. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Exporters of services may open foreign exchange retention accounts with the NBE's approval. Yes. No. No. No. Nonresident Accounts Three types of nonresident accounts may be opened: foreign currency accounts, nonresi- dent transferable birr accounts, and nonresident nontransferable birr accounts. Deposits to these accounts must be made in foreign currency. The balances in the first two accounts may be transferred freely abroad or used for international payment purposes, while the balance in the nonresident nontransferable birr account is to be used mainly for local ex- penses. Transfer of funds from foreign currency accounts and nonresident transferable bin- accounts to nonresident nontransferable birr accounts do not require NBE approval. D ip loma t ic bodies, members of in terna t ional organizations, and foreign investors may open all three types of foreign exchange accounts. Other nonresidents may open only nonresident nontransferable birr accounts. All nonresident accounts must be in the form of demand deposits and may be interest bearing. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 336 Approval required ETHIOPIA Approval is required for the conversion of the balances in nonresident nontransferable bin- accounts into foreign currency accounts. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Importation under suppliers' credits requires prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit, and such imports are allowed only for individuals or enterprises engaged in export activities and/or who generate foreign exchange. Final invoices that separately show f.o.b. cost and freight charges and nonnegotiable bills of lading are required. Domiciliation requirements Importers are required to insure their goods with local insurance companies. Preshipment inspection Import licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. Yes. Other Exchange licenses may be obtained when a valid importer's license is presented. Applica- tions for exchange licenses must be accompanied by information on costs and payment terms and evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged with an Ethiopian insurance company. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports by federal and regional offices are exempted from the import-licensing requirement. Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs The list includes items restricted for reasons of health and security. Imports by federal and regional offices are exempted from this requirement. The item-weighted average tariff rate is 17.5%. Imports are subject to a 2% withholding tax. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exporters may retain 10% of their export proceeds in foreign exchange for an indefinite period. The remaining balance may be retained for a period of up to 28 days, after which it must be converted into local currency at the weighted average daily interbank exchange rate. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All exporters must prove to the NBE that they have repatriated 100% of previous export earnings before being allowed to export again. Guarantees Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes An export credit guarantee scheme is operational. All exports are processed by commercial banks, with the exception of coffee exports. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 337 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Yes. Trade-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Approval is given by the commercial banks. Verification of documentary evidence is required for unloading, storage, commission, and administrative expenses. Af ter paying local taxes, foreign companies may remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Prior approval for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments is required mainly for government transactions made through the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development. Indicative limits/bona fide test These are subject to an assessment based on the NBE's criteria. Verification of a contractual agreement between parties is required by the NBE. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Persons traveling abroad on holiday or business may purchase up to $400 or its equivalent in cash and the rest in traveler's checks or drafts. For government travel, the allowance amounts vary by the country of destination and foreign currency required, based on the cost of living. Yes. Yes. There are no limits on allowances for medical treatment and studies abroad. A foreign ex- change bureau may sell foreign exchange for a bona fide medical treatment abroad upon presentation of a medical board certificate, a passport, a valid exit visa, and an air transpor- tation ticket. A foreign exchange bureau may sell up to $400 or its equivalent in cash and the balance in traveler's checks or drafts. Additional foreign exchange may be approved for a patient being treated abroad, provided that the application is supported by bona fide medical bills or hospital statements. A foreign exchange bureau may sell foreign exchange for a bona fide tuition fee, subsis- tence, and other associated educational expenses upon presentation of a letter of admission and evidence of student attendance at an institution. Sales of foreign exchange to a student may be approved, up to $400 or its equivalent in cash or traveler's checks. The tuition fee, subsistence, and other associated educational expenses must be paid directly through bank transfer or draft to the educational institution. Indicative limits/bona fide test Verification by a medical board and the Ministry of Health is required for medical payments. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Foreign contractual employees of the government may take out foreign exchange, not ex- ceeding their net earnings during the terms of service and upon final departure. However, the value of free accommodations, gratuities, accumulated leave pay, and similar benefits may not be included for remittance purposes. Other expatriate employees may take out foreign exchange on final departure, not exceeding their net earnings. Foreign employees of embassies, legations, consulates, and international organizations whose salaries are fu l ly paid in foreign currency from sources outside Ethiopia may take out and/or transfer their net earnings, not exceeding the balance in their nonresident foreign currency account, nonresident transferable birr account, and/or nonresident nontransferable birr account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 338 ETHIOPIA Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Documentation is required from the overseas institute and approval must be given by com- mercial banks for subscription and membership fees. NBE verification of contractual agreements between the parties is required for the transfer of legal fees, and applications are considered on a case-by-case basis. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Ten percent of proceeds may be retained indefinitely. The remaining balance may be retained for a period of no more than 28 days. These funds may be used for payments such as imports of goods and services, export pro- motion, training and education, credit repayment, and other payments approved by the NBE. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are not permitted to purchase government bonds. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are not permitted to purchase government treasury bills. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On collective investment securities There is no domestic market for these instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents There is no domestic market for these instruments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Banks need prior approval from the NBE to borrow funds abroad, but do not need prior approval for overdrawing their accounts with foreign correspondents or accepting deposits. Other residents need to obtain the NBE's prior approval, and the credits should be used for export-generating investments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 339 Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Commercial banks may issue guarantees on behalf of foreign banks to resident companies. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Investment in telecommunications and defense industries is allowed in partnership with the government. Investments in postal service (except courier service), the transmission and supply of electricity through the Integrated National Grid System, and, effective October 28, 2003, air transport services using aircraft with a seating capacity of more than 20 passengers are reserved for the government. All investments (except for services and transport generation and supply of electricity) must be approved and certified by the Ethiopian Investment Commission (EIC). The Ethiopian Civil Aviation Authority and the Ethiopian Electric Agency are in charge of issuance, renewal, and cancellation of services investment permits for air transport, and transmission and supply of electricity, respectively. Exemptions from income taxes are granted for up to six years for new projects in manufac- turing or agro-industry in which at least 50% of production is exported or at least 75% of production is used as an input for the production of export items. Expansion or upgrading of existing projects is also eligible for exemptions from income taxes for two years if the expansion or upgrading increases the existing production by 25% in value and 50% of the production is to be exported. Investment activities that export less than 50% of their pro- duction and produce exclusively for the local market are granted up to three years of in- come tax exemption. Imports of investment goods and spare parts for such ventures are also eligible for exemption from customs duties and other specified import levies. The EIC may decide on additional or new incentives when it deems th is necessary. EIC authorization is required for repatriation of capital. Registration of capital inflows with the EIA establishes the evidence of inflows required for authorization. All recognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on presentation of documents regarding liquidation and on payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropriate docu- mentation, foreign investors may transfer their capital without limitations upon final depar- ture from Ethiopia. All foreign investors may also transfer abroad in convertible currency payments for debts, fees, or royalties in respect to technology transfer agreements. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of personal property abroad is not permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Only Ethiopian passport holders may purchase real estate in Ethiopia. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans To residents from nonresidents Regulations on f inanc ial credits apply. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings These transactions are not allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 340 ETHIOPIA Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Banks may not borrow from, or enter into a guarantee agreement with, banks abroad unless authorized by the NBE. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks may maintain nostro accounts with their correspondents. Ethiopian airlines and shipping lines are also allowed to maintain accounts abroad. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors All nonresident accounts must be in the form of demand deposits. The overall foreign currency position of each bank should not exceed 15% of its capital at the close of business on each Friday. Residents are not allowed to invest in foreign securities. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2003 Capital transactions Controls on direct investment October 28. Air transport services using aircraft with a seating capacity of more than 20 passengers were included in the list of investment activities reserved for the government. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 4, 1972. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Fiji is the Fiji dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control The external value of the Fiji dollar is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of cur- rencies comprising the Australian dollar, the Japanese yen, the New Zealand dollar, the euro, and the U.S. dollar. The relative weights are based on three-year moving averages of Fiji's direction of trade and are reviewed annually. The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily by the Reserve Bank of Fiji (RBF) on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and other currencies included in the basket. No. No. Forward exchange facilities are provided by banks for trade transactions for periods of up to six months for exporters and up to nine months for importers. The amount of a banks' forward sales is limited to the amount of forward purchases. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Although no specific requirements exist, settlements must be made in convertible curren- cies acceptable to both countries. Fiji participates in the following arrangements: the Fiji/Vanuatu Bilateral Trade Arrange- ment, the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, PACER, and PICTA. Exchange control is administered by the RBF, acting as an agent of the government; the RBF delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve current payments and trans- fers up to specified limits. Documentary evidence is required for amounts exceeding the prescribed limits. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade n.a. n.a. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins but not gold bullion. The exportation of gold coins, except coins and collectors' pieces for numismatic purposes, requires specific permission from the RBF. The importation of gold, other than gold coins, from all sources requires a specific import license from the MOF; these are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coins and gold bullion are exempt from fiscal duty but are subject to a 10% VAT. Gold jewelry is also exempt from fiscal duty but is subject to a 10% VAT and is not under licensing control. Samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufacturers require import licenses if their value exceeds F$200. Effective January 1, 2003, exports of gold jewelry are free of export duty but require licenses if their value ex- ceeds F$20,000 (previously, F$2,000). Exports of gold bu l l ion are subject to an export duty o f3%. 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 342 FIJI Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports are allowed up to F$500 a trip for travel-related purposes only. Exports are allowed up to the amount declared at the time of arrival. Effective January 1, 2003, local travelers are allowed to take out up to the equivalent of F$20,000 (previously, F$ 10,000) in foreign currency (inclusive of a minimum of F$500 in local currency) for each overseas round trip. The limit applicable to a one-way trip is the equivalent of F$5,000. Travelers may freely bring in Fiji banknotes, but must declare them to customs or immigra- tion officials on arrival. Travelers may freely bring in foreign currency banknotes, but must declare them to cus- toms or immigration officials on arrival in order to export the unused balance on departure. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted for resident individuals and any business entity registered and operating in Fiji. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Fiji dollar resident accounts may be maintained by resident individuals and any business entity registered and operating in Fiji. Commercial banks may open these accounts without RBF approval. External Fiji dollar and foreign currency accounts are maintained by nonresident individuals and businesses. Commercial banks may open these accounts without RBF approval. Effective January 1, 2003, resident individuals may open these accounts without RBF approval for amounts up to the equivalent of F$20,000; resident businesses require RBF approval to open accounts for amounts exceeding F$ 100,000. Yes. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Yes. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited freely with the account holders' salaries (net of tax), with interest payable on the account, or with payments from other external accounts. Commer- cial banks are allowed to open foreign currency accounts for regional and international organizations. These accounts may be credited freely with the account holders' salaries (net of tax); with interest payable on the account; with payments from other external accounts; with the pro- ceeds of sales of foreign currency or foreign coins by the account holder; and with Fiji banknotes that the account holder brought into Fiji, acquired by debit to an external ac- count, or acquired through the sale of foreign currency in the country during a temporary visit. External accounts may also be credited with payments by residents for which either general or specific authority has been given. External accounts may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Fiji, transfers to other external accounts, payments in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange. Effective January 1, 2003, authorized banks are allowed to credit to domestic currency accounts the fu ll amount of the proceeds from sales of Fiji as- sets (previously, these transactions were subject to a delegated limit of F$ 100,000). Other unspecified funds up to F$ 1,000 a month may be deposited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 343 Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Authorized banks may approve up to a delegated limit equivalent to F$l million of advance payments for imports, if such payments are required by the supplier. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of docu- mentary evidence to authorized dealers, who may allow payments for goods that have been imported under either a specific import license or an OGL. Yes. Yes. Effective January 1, 2004, payments for oil imports require prior approval from the RBF. Imports of poultry and poultry products and lubrication oils from any source require a spe- c i f ic import license. The Ministry of Commerce, Business Development, and Investment (MCBDI) is responsible for issuing import licenses, with the exception of those for gold and timber. Import licenses and other nontariff measures for gold are issued by the MOF; for timber, they are issued by the Ministry of Forestry. A wide range of consumer goods is imported by national cooperative societies under a jo int arrangement with six other Pacific Island countries. Import licenses for cyclonic bu i ld ing materials are jointly issued by the Department of Fair Trading and Consumer A f fa i rs and the MOF. The importation of a few commodities is prohibited for security, health, or public policy reasons. Import licenses for frozen chicken from the United States are issued based on quotas. All imports must meet required technical standards on labeling, packaging, and expiration date requirements. All agricultural and forestry products are subject to quarantine clearance. Import taxes and/or tariffs Import tar iffs are zero, 3%, 10%, 15%, 20%, and 27%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to collect the proceeds from exports within six months of the date of shipment of the goods from Fiji and may not, without specific permission, grant more than six months' credit to a nonresident buyer. Customs is delegated to process and approve all exports of goods with no monetary return. Authorized banks may approve payments of up to the equivalent of F$l million for mer- chandise imports and up to F$500,000 for other business payments, respectively, from ex- port earnings. Effective January 1, 2003, authorized banks may approve the offset of for- eign exchange earnings against merchandise imports and other business payments up to the fu ll amounts payable (previously, these limits were F$l million and F$ 100,000 an invoice, respectively). Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses Export licenses are issued by the customs department and monitored by the comptroller of customs. Specific licenses are required only for exports of sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain types of lumber, certain animals, and a few other items. The MCBDI is responsible for issuing export licenses for trochus shells, petroleum, and petroleum products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 344 FIJI Irrespective of export-licensing requirements, however, effective January 1, 2003, exporters are required to obtain a permit for exports of commercial consignment of goods with an f.o.b. value of more than the equivalent of F$2,000 (previously, F$ 1,000); this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Export taxes A 3% export duty is levied on exports of sugar, gold, and silver. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Quantitative limits Except for certain payments that are allowed up to specified limits, above which RBF ap- proval is required, authorized banks may approve all payments. Documentary evidence is required for amounts above the equivalent of F$2,000. Insurance transfers are subject to the approval of the Insurance Unit of the RBF and are then delegated to authorized banks. Effective January 1, 2003, authorized banks may approve the fu ll amount of payments due for a ir l ine and shipping ticket sales and earnings; commercial fees, charges, and expenses; insurance payments; commercial freight and repair services; leasing services; and movie rentals (previously, the limit was F$l million an application, except for insurance pay- ments, which were allowed in f u ll but required approval from the Insurance Supervision Unit of the RBF). Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Quantitative limits Payment of interest is allowed, provided prior approval for the loan was granted by the RBF, if the loan is in excess of F$500,000. Effective January 1, 2003, authorized banks may approve up to F$ 100,000 a year (previ- ously, F$50,000 a year) for dividend and profit remittances. On January 1, 2004, this limit was increased to F$ 150,000 a year. Effective January 1, 2003, authorized banks may approve the fu ll amount of payments due for commissions and royalty payments (previously, a l im it of F$l m i l l ion an application applied). Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Effective January 1, 2003, amounts exceeding the equivalent of F$20,000 a person (previ- ously, F$ 10,000) require RBF approval. Yes. Yes. Effec t ive January 1, 2003, authorized banks may make payments of up to the f u ll amount for medical expenses (previously, these transactions were subject to a limit equivalent to F$ 100,000), if the payment is made directly to an institution. If the payment is made to the beneficiary, the l im it is F$20,000 a year, effective January 1, 2003 (previously, F$ 10,000). Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Effec t ive January 1, 2003, authorized banks are allowed to provide foreign currency to pay up to the fu ll amount of wages due to foreign crew members (previously, these transactions were subject to a l im it equivalent to F$ 10,000). E f fec t ive January 1, 2003, authorized banks may provide the f u ll amount for credit card transactions (previously, these transactions were subject to a monthly l im it equivalent to F$ 10,000 a cardholder) and cash drawings (previously, F$5,000) a cardholder a month. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Other payments Quantitative limits FIJI 345 Effective January 1, 2003, authorized banks are allowed to approve the fu ll amount for the following payments: payments by companies for pensions, superannuations, or gratuities (previously, a limit of F$ 100,000 an application applied); refunds on canceled hotel book- ings (previously, a limit of F$ 100,000 an application applied); and airline and ticket sales and earnings; commercial fees, charges, and expenses; and movie rentals (previously, a limit of F$l million an application applied). Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Residents are required to sell all their foreign currency receipts to an authorized dealer within one month of their return. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions Certain capital transfers in excess of the delegated limit require RBF approval for commer- cial banks. Investments by nonresidents for amounts up to the equivalent of F$500,000 require authorization from either the South Pacific Stock Exchange (for investments in listed companies) or commercial banks (for investments in Fiji dollar-denominated depos- its). Some of the fund ing for these investments must originate from abroad or from earnings in Fiji. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Domestic companies are allowed to invest abroad up to the equivalent of F$ 100,000 a company a year. These investments are restricted to the establishment of subsidiary offices and equity purchases. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities There are controls on all transactions in bonds or other debt securities. On money market instruments There are controls on all transactions in money market instruments. On collective investment securities There are controls on all transactions in collective investment securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations There are controls on all derivatives transactions. Residents must obtain prior permission from the RBF to borrow abroad amounts exceeding the equivalent of F$500,000 in foreign currency. RBF permission is also required for any up-front fees payments. New borrowings or guarantees by nonresident-controlled business entities are restricted to F$10 million, and those by nonresident individuals are restricted to F$500,000. Effective January 1, 2003, authorized banks may provide up to F$ 100,000 (previously, F$50,000) of the amount due for scheduled foreign currency loan repayments. Effective January 1, 2004, this limit was raised further to F$ 150,000. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 346 FIJI To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Yes. Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents The authority to l im it bank guarantees is fu l ly delegated to commercial banks. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Nonbank financial institutions may invest up to the equivalent of F$l million. The limit on overseas investment for individuals and families is F$20,000 a taxpayer a year, and the limit on expenditure to set up sales offices or subsidiaries abroad by local companies is F$ 100,000 a year. Foreign investment in Fiji is normally expected to be financed from nonresident sources. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. Transactions exceeding the delegated limits for authorized banks require specific permis- sion from the RBF, which is readily granted upon evidence that the investment funds origi- nated abroad. Nonresident-owned companies are permitted to repatriate in fu ll the proceeds from sales of assets and capital gains on investments. Effective January 1, 2003, the fu ll transfer of investments is allowed (previously, F$10 million) a year. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of personal property abroad is not permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Approval by the Ministry of Lands and the Native Land Trust Board is required for pur- chases of state-owned property and designated Native Lease properties. Settlements off- shore of sale transactions in which both parties are nonresidents require RBF permission. Controls on settlements are effected to safeguard local interest before proceeds from sales are remitted abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. Effective January 1, 2003, all transfers exceeding the equivalent of F$ 100,000 (previously, F$50,000) by emigrants require prior RBF approval and the annual limit of F$500,000 was lifted. Effective January 1, 2004, transfers exceeding F$ 150,000 require prior approval. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Authorized dealers must obtain permission from the RBF to borrow abroad. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) The limit for lending to a newly established company or a branch of a company in Fiji (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly by persons who reside outside Fiji is F$10 million. Lenders are also allowed to authorize temporary overdrafts without ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits FIJI 347 reference to the RBF, provided fu ll clearance of overdrafts is carried out within 30 days. Borrowing by nonresident individuals is delegated to lending institutions and commercial banks for amounts up to F$500,000. Banks and nonbank financial institutions may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the RBF. Yes. Yes. An individual (together with his or her relatives) may own up to 15% of the voting shares of a bank or credit institution. Ownership through a company may be up to 30%. This does not preclude the establishment of branches or subsidiaries incorporated in Fiji of 100% nonresident-controlled f inanc ial institutions. Net open position limits in terms of each bank's actual capital are set at the greater of 12.5% or the equivalent of F$0.4 m i l l ion for each currency, and up to an aggregate of 25% or from F$0.8 m i l l ion to a max imum of F$7.5 m i l l ion, for all foreign currencies. The l im it on gross outstanding forward foreign exchange sales contracts is set at 100% of each bank's capital in Fiji, provided net outstanding forward exchange sales contracts do not exceed the equivalent of F$15 m i l l ion. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Offshore investment by the Fiji Na t ional Provident Fund is limited to the equivalent of F$ 10 m i l l ion. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Arrangements for payments and receipts January L The limit on the value of gold jewelry exports not requiring export licenses was increased to the equivalent of F$20,000 from F$2,000. Changes During 2003 Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January L The maximum amount of foreign currency that local travelers were allowed to take out of the country on an overseas round trip was increased to the equivalent of F$20,000 from F$ 10,000. January L Resident individuals were allowed to open foreign exchange accounts without RBF approval for amounts up to the equivalent of F$20,000; resident businesses were re- quired to obtain RBF approval to open accounts for amounts exceeding F$ 100,000. January 1. Authorized banks were allowed to credit the f u ll amount of the proceeds from sales of Fiji assets to domestic currency accounts (previously, a delegated l im it of F$ 100,000 applied). January L Authorized banks were allowed to offset foreign exchange earnings against merchandise imports and other business payments up to the fu ll amount payable (previ- ously, delegated limits of F$l m i l l ion and F$ 100,000 an invoice, respectively, applied). January L The m in imum f.o.b. value of all commercial consignments of goods for which an export permit is required was increased to F$2,000 from F$ 1,000. January L Authorized banks were allowed to approve the fu ll amount of payments due for commercial freight and repair services; insurance payments; leasing services; airline and shipping ticket sales and earnings; commercial fees, charges, and expenses; and movie rentals (previously, the l im it was F$ 1 million an application, except for insurance pay- ments, which were allowed in f u ll but required approval from the Insurance Supervision Unit of the RBF). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 348 FIJI January L The maximum amount that authorized banks could approve for dividend and profit remittances was increased to F$ 100,000 a year from F$50,000. January L Authorized banks were allowed to approve the fu ll amount of payments due for commissions and royalties (previously, a l im it of F$l million an application applied). January L The amount of travel payments not subject to RBF approval was increased to the equivalent of F$20,000 from F$ 10,000 a person. January L Commercial banks were allowed to make payments of up to the f u ll amount for medical expenses if the payments were made directly to an institution (previously, this was subject to a delegated l im it equivalent to F$ 100,000); if the payment is made to the benefi- ciary, the l im it was increased to F$20,000 from F$ 10,000. January L Authorized banks were allowed to provide foreign currency to pay up to the fu ll amount of wages due to foreign crew members (previously, a limit equivalent to F$ 10,000 a beneficiary applied). January L Authorized banks were allowed to provide foreign exchange for f u ll payments on credit cards (previously, limited to the equivalent of F$ 10,000 a month), with a limit on cash drawings of F$ 10,000 a month (previously, a limit of F$5,000 applied). January L Authorized banks were allowed to approve the fu ll amount of pensions, super- annuation payments, or gratuities (previously, a limit of F$ 100,000 an application applied); the f u ll amount of refunds on canceled hotel and a ir l ine bookings (previously, a limit of F$ 100,000 an application applied); and airline and ticket sales and earnings; commercial fees, charges, and expenses; and movie rentals (previously, a limit of F$l million an appli- cation applied). January L The maximum amount that authorized banks may release for scheduled foreign currency loan repayments was increased to the equivalent of F$ 100,000 from F$50,000. Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Controls on liquidation of direct investment January L The fu ll transfer of investment liquidation proceeds was permitted (previously, a l im it of F$10 m i l l ion a year applied). Controls on personal capital transactions January L The amount of transfers by emigrants for which RBF approval is required was increased to the equivalent of F$ 100,000 from F$50,000, and the annual l im it of F$500,000 on such transfers was lifted. Changes During 2004 Imports and import payments January L Payments for oil imports were made subject to prior RBF approval. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January L The maximum amount that authorized banks could approve for dividend and prof it was increased to F$ 150,000 a year from F$ 100,000. Capital transactions Controls on credit operations January L The maximum amount that authorized banks may approve for foreign currency loan repayments was increased to the equivalent of F$ 150,000 from F$ 100,000. Controls on personal capital transactions January L The amount of transfers by emigrants for which RBF approval is required was increased to the equivalent of F$ 150,000 from F$ 100,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 25, 1979. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of F in land is the euro. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender F in land participates in a currency un ion (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Be lg ium, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. The ECB may intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. No. There are no exchange controls. Import l icens ing is administered by the National Board of Customs. Export licensing relating to in terna t ional export control regimes is administered by the trade department/foreign trade division of the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Measures have been taken to freeze the accounts of the Taliban and of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, cer- ta in restrictions are ma in ta ined on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- t ional transactions w i th respect to Myanmar, certain ind iv idua ls associated with the previ- ous governments of Iraq and the former Repub l ic of Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe. In accordance with EU Regulation No. 147/2003, effective January 27, 2003, f inanc ing of and f inanc ial assistance related to military activities in Somalia are prohibited. Restrictions also apply on transfers with respect to members of Al-Qaida and the Taliban, and ind iv idua ls and organizations associated with terrorism. Imports of diamonds and sawed wooden goods from Liberia are subject to economic sanctions. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 350 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas FINLAND Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Yes. The following products are subject to quantitative import restrictions and require an import license when imported into the EU: agricultural products; certain steel products subject to bilateral agreements with Russia and Ukraine; certain steel products subject to autonomous community quotas for Kazakhstan; specific textile products subject to bilateral agreements with third countries, particular third-country textile products subject to autonomous com- munity quotas; and certain Chinese industrial products subject to autonomous community quotas. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export licenses are required only for exports of goods related to international export control regimes and are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The sale of arms is strictly controlled by the Ministry of Defense. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 351 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Yes. Capital Transactions Controls apply only to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature, which may be affected by laws on inward direct investment. No. No. Acquisition of shares giving at least one-third of the voting rights in a Finnish defense en- terprise to a single foreign owner requires prior confirmation by the Ministry of Defense; approval can be denied only if the safeguarding of public defense is jeopardized. No. Acquisition of real estate for recreational purposes or as secondary residences is allowed for nonresidents who have not previously been residents of Finland for at least five years. Controls apply only to the acquisition of real estate for recreational purposes or as secondary residences by nonresidents in the Aland Islands. No. Prudential regulations that are harmonized with EU directives apply. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. Financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia were prohibited. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position as of January 31, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of France is the euro. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control France participates in the EMU with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, F in land, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. The ECB may intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. A fixed conversion rate of CFPF 1,000 per €8.38 applies to the CFP franc, which is the currency of the overseas territories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands. Two groups of African countries are linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account: Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo (franc de la Communaute financiere africaine, issued by the BCEAO); and Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon (franc de la Cooperation financiere en Afrique centrale, issued by the BEAC). The fixed parity is CFAF 655.957 per €1. The Comorian franc, issued by the Central Bank of the Comoros, which holds an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, is linked to the French franc at a fixed parity of CF 491.968 per €1. No. No. Registered banks in France and Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Registered banks may also deal spot or forward with their cor- respondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may purchase foreign exchange forward with respect to specified transactions. All residents, including private persons, may purchase or sell foreign exchange forward without restriction. Forward sales of foreign currency are not restricted, whether or not they are for hedging purposes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Ministry of Economy is the coordinating agency for financial relations with foreign countries. It is responsible for all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and has certain powers over matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, and the like. The execution of all transfers has been delegated to registered banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Measures have been taken to freeze accounts of listed persons and entities linked to terror- ists pursuant to the relevant EU regulations and UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, certain restrictions are maintained on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to the former government of Iraq, the former 352 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 353 government of Liberia, Myanmar, certain individuals associated with the previous government of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe. Financing of and f inanc ial assistance related to m i l i tary activities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (from October 1, 2003), Somalia (effective January 27, 2003), and Sudan (from January 26, 2004) are prohibited. Restrictions also apply on transfers with respect to the Taliban and individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Amounts exceeding the equivalent of €7,600 must be declared to customs upon arrival or departure. On imports Foreign currency At the request of Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, banknotes issued by these countries may not be exchanged in France. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Some imports from non-EU countries require administrative visas issued by the Central Customs Administration or the appropriate ministry. Imports of products of the ECSC re- quire such administrative visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. Products covered by the Common Market regulations require import certificates. Licenses are required for some countries and some products. Imports of goods that origi- nate outside of the EU and are subject to quantitative restrictions require individual li- censes. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports from non-EU countries. Cer- tain goods originating in the EU that are of a strategic nature or of national interest (e.g., works of art) are licensed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 354 FRANCE Import taxes and/or tariffs Duties are collected at the time of entry into the EU in relation to the origin of the products and a tariff nomenclature. An agricultural levy (within the CAP) and, if necessary, an anti- dumping levy may be added. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Certain prohibited goods may be exported only under a special license. Exports are not taxed, except for precious metals, works of art, jewelry, and collections of jewels and antiques, which are subject to a levy. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers No. No. Yes. No. Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Effective March 7, 2003, controls on shares or other securities of a participating nature issued by non-OECD residents no longer apply. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Effective March 7, 2003, controls on bonds and other debt securities issued by non-OECD residents no longer apply. Effective March 7, 2003, controls on money market instruments issued by non-OECD residents no longer apply. Effective March 7, 2003, controls on collective investment securities issued by non-OECD residents no longer apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 355 Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Direct investments by companies not listed publicly are defined as those in which foreign investors hold together more than one-third of the capital. However, effective March 7, 2003, there are no controls on investments in a company whose capital is more than 50% (previously, two-thirds) foreign owned. In the case of firms whose shares are listed on the stock exchange, the threshold is also 50% of capital (previously, 20%); this applies to each individual foreign participation but not to total foreign participation. To determine whether a company is under foreign control, the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MINEFI) may take into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, loans, patents, licenses, or commercial contracts. An authorization is required for investments in areas pertaining to public order, public health, and defense. The liquidation proceeds of foreign direct investment in France may be freely transferred abroad; the liquidation must be reported to the MINEFI within 20 days of its occurrence. The liquidation of direct investments abroad is free from any prior application, provided that the corresponding funds have been reported to the Bank of France. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors No. No. No. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Effective March 7, 2003, controls on capital and money market instruments issued by non- OECD residents no longer apply. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Insurance companies in the EU are required to cover their technical reserves with assets expressed in the same currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. Financing or providing assistance related to military activities in Somalia was prohibited. October 1. Financing or providing assistance related to military activities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo was prohibited. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on direct investment March 7. Controls on capital and money market instruments issued by non-OECD residents were eliminated. March 7. The threshold above which there are no controls on direct investments by compa- nies not listed publicly was reduced to 50% of capital from two-thirds. In the case of com- panies whose shares are listed on the stock exchange, the threshold was increased to 50% of capital from 20%. Provisions specific to institutional investors March 7. Controls on capital and money market instruments issued by non-OECD residents were e l im ina ted. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 26. Financing or providing assistance related to military activities in Sudan was prohibited. Changes During 2004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position as of February 29, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Gabon is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange transactions in euros between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the same rate. Buying and selling rates for certain foreign currencies are also off ic ia l ly posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the euro and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market, and include a commission. Commis- sions are levied at the rate of 0.5% on transfers made by the banks for their own accounts and on all private capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the treasury, national accounting offices, and private entities granted exemption by the Ministry of Economy, Finance, Budget, and Privatization (MEFBP) because of the nature of their activities. Foreign exchange operations are subject to a VAT, which is levied on commissions charged by authorized dealers. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market There are no domestic forward exchange markets, but exporters and importers may obtain foreign exchange risk cover on the Paris foreign exchange market for periods not exceeding n ine months. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Gabon is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in euros or in any of the currencies of these countries or through for- eign accounts in CFA francs. No limits apply on the circulation of domestic currency among CAEMC member countries, As the domestic currency is no longer repurchased outside the CAEMC area, exports of domestic currency to the countries outside the CAEMC are prohibited. The CFA franc may be used freely for current transactions and payments within the CAEMC. It may be used, through correspondent banks, for payments with other countries, provided that both parties agree to the terms of the contract. The CFA franc may be used freely for capital transactions within the CAEMC. Settlements with other countries are made in euros or in any of the currencies agreed to by both parties to the transaction. Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. 356 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control GABON 357 Use of foreign exchange among residents is considered a foreign exchange operation and may be effected only through an authorized intermediary. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. The government is allowed to hold oil reserve-related deposits in foreign currencies with commercial banks, and to use them to service foreign debt obligations. Exchange regulations of member coun- tries in the CAEMC are harmonized. Banks in CAEMC countries may participate in a regional money market in which clearing is provided by the BE AC. The Directorate of Financial Institutions (DPI) of the MEFBP implements foreign exchange regulations on a subregional level. The MEFBP also has partly delegated its administrative authority over foreign exchange operations to authorized intermediaries (the postal admini- stration and banks) that verify compliance, collect statistics, and report to the monetary authorities. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions are enforced in accordance with Security Council Resolution No. 1373. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may hold, purchase, and sell gold and precious stones of all kinds within the CAEMC. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the MEFBP. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a small quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). The exportation of gold is the monopoly of the So- ciete gabonaise de recherches et d'exploitation minieres. Imports of gold exempted from licensing and authorization requirements are subject to customs declaration. Exports of CFA francs issued by the BEAC to areas outside the CAEMC are prohibited. Residents traveling to areas outside the CAEMC are subject to the various limits imposed on foreign exchange allocated for each trip, depending on the nature of the travel. Nonresi- dent travelers may take with them foreign currency or other foreign means of payment equivalent to the maximum amount declared upon entry into the CAEMC area. Above this ceiling or in the absence of declaration, nonresidents must provide supporting documents explaining the origin of such amounts. There is no limit on the amount of banknotes that residents and nonresidents may import into one CAEMC country from another, but imports of banknotes from outside the CAEMC area, by both residents and nonresidents, are prohibited. Resident and nonresident travelers may import foreign banknotes and coins into Gabon, but the amount must be declared to customs. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Residents are not authorized to open foreign exchange accounts within the CAEMC area. Resident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 358 Approval required Held abroad Approval required GABON The minister of finance may permit certain resident legal entities to open foreign exchange accounts subject to BEAC approval. These accounts are permitted, but must be reported to the monetary authorities. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Residents may hold accounts in the CAEMC area or in other countries subject to regulatory provisions of the countries concerned. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Domestic currency accounts are not convertible into foreign exchange. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but must be reported to the monetary authorities through the authorized intermediaries. Authorized intermediaries are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts in CFA francs for nonresidents, provided that they inform the monetary authorities. Blocked accounts Residents and nonresidents may maintain blocked accounts with banks in Gabon. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements All import transactions in excess of CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of some products are prohibited for security and health reasons. Quantitative re- strictions are maintained on imports of sugar. Imports from all countries, except for sugar, are permitted freely and do not require licenses. Except for gold and health- and security-related items, imports are subject to declaration for statistical purposes. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in Gabon. The common duty rates of the CAEMC member countries are 5% for basic necessities, 10% for raw materials and capital goods, 20% for intermediate goods, and 30% for con- sumer goods. On January 22, 2004, the surcharge applicable to imports of lubricants and water was removed. The surcharge on imports of cooking oil and soap was removed on April 10,2003. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports to countries outside the CAEMC area must be collected and repatri- ated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the contract, unless a special waiver is granted by the MEFBP. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes GABON 359 Export proceeds received in foreign currencies be must surrendered to the BEAC within one month of receipt. No. Yes. Yes. Export transactions in excess of CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports are subject to declaration to the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Effective February 23, 2004, the export tax on unprocessed forestry products was reduced to 17% from 20% and that on manganese to 3.5% from 5%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments for invisibles to France and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; payments to other countries are subject to bona fide tests in the form of declaration and presentation of supporting documents to the MEFBP. For many types of payments, the MEFBP has delegated the control authority to authorized intermediaries. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the underlying trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Payments exceeding CFAF 100 million are subject to supporting documentary requirements. Payments of profits, dividends, interest, and royalties to nonresidents are permitted freely when the underlying transaction has been authorized or does not require authorization. Residents traveling to France or other Operations Account countries may obtain an unlim- ited amount of euros. Travelers to the CAEMC area may take out BEAC banknotes without limit. Residents traveling to areas outside the CAEMC are allowed to take out foreign banknotes and other means of payment up to the equivalent of CFAF 4 million and CFAF 10 million for tourism and business purposes, respectively. Yes. Yes. Students and trainees traveling to countries outside the CAEMC area may obtain a foreign exchange allocation of CFAF 5 million. Persons traveling to countries outside the CFA franc zone for medical reasons may obtain a foreign exchange allocation of up to the equivalent of CFAF 5 million; additional amounts may be obtained upon submission of supporting documentation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Foreign workers are allowed to transfer part of their net salary upon presentation of their pay vouchers and a copy of their work contract. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits The use of credit cards issued by resident f inanc ial intermediaries with MEFBP approval is limited to the ceilings applicable to tourism and business travel. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 360 GABON Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements The proceeds from all invisible transactions with respect to ordinary services, income, and grants must be declared to the administrative authorities. Transactions exceeding CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with a CAEMC authorized bank. All proceeds received from residents of other countries with respect to services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected w i th in 30 days of the due date, and if received in foreign currency, surrendered to the BEAC w i th in one month of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Capital transactions between Gabon and France and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely, except for the sale or issuance of foreign securities. Capital transfers to all other countries are restricted and require the approval of the DPI, but capital transfers from these countries are permitted freely, provided that they are not related to activities that are prohibited by CAEMC regulations. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles em- bodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions must be reported to the MEFBP. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in amounts exceeding CFAF 10 million in Gabon requires prior authorization from the MEFBP. Operations in connection with the following are exempt from authorization: (1) loans backed by a guaran- tee from the Gabonese government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, ad- vertising, or offering for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions must be reported to the MEFBP. Bonds or other debt securities These transactions must be reported to the MEFBP and the BEAC 30 days before they are effected. On money market instruments These transactions must be reported to the MEFBP and the BEAC. On collective investment securities These transactions must be reported to the MEFBP and the BEAC 30 days before they are effected. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents These transactions must be reported to the MEFBP and the BEAC. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions must be reported to the MEFBP and the BEAC. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Lending by natural and juridical persons whose usual residence or registered office is in Gabon or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered off ice is abroad requires prior authorization from the MEFBP. The following are exempt from this ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution To residents from nonresidents GABON 361 authorization: (1) loans granted by authorized banks; and (2) other loans, of which the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one lender. However, for loans that are free of authorization, each repayment must be declared to the DFI within 30 days of the operation. Borrowing contracted by natural and juridical persons whose usual residence or registered off ice is in Gabon or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad requires prior authorization from the MEFBP. The following transac- tions are exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of com- mercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign coun- tries in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, of which the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 100 m i l l ion for any one borrower. However, for the contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, each repayment must be declared to the DFI within 30 days of the operation. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents These transactions must be reported to the MEFBP and the BE AC. Authorization from the MEFBP is required for transactions exceeding CFAF 100 million in value. To residents from nonresidents These transactions must be reported to the MEFBP and the BE AC. Controls on direct investment Direct investment is defined as the acquisition of more than 10% of the capital of a company. Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Direct investments, including those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or indi- rectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign compa- nies in Gabon, must be declared to the MEFBP within 30 days of operation unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits. Direct investments exceeding CFAF 100 million must be declared to the MEFBP within 30 days of the operation unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from the reinvestment of undistributed profits. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must be declared to the MEFBP within 30 days of the operation unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a shareholding that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Gabon. Purchase abroad by residents Transactions must be supported by appropriate documents and reported to the MEFBP. Purchase locally by nonresidents Transactions must be supported by appropriate documents and reported to the MEFBP. Sale locally by nonresidents Transactions must be supported by appropriate documents and reported to the MEFBP. Controls on personal capital transactions Transactions are permitted without controls but supporting documents indicating the origin of funds and the nature of transactions must be presented. Loans By residents to nonresidents Amounts exceeding CFAF 100 million are subject to authorization. To residents from nonresidents Transactions in excess of CFAF 100 m i l l ion must be reported to the MEFBP. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Amounts exceeding CFAF 100 million require authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 362 GABON To residents from nonresidents Amounts exceeding CFAF 100 million require authorization. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants MEFBP authorization is required for settlement of debts abroad exceeding CFAF 5 million; supporting documents (loan contract, schedule, etc.) must be presented. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Supporting documents on the origin of the funds must be submitted. Transfer into the country by immigrants Transfers exceeding CFAF 100 million must be reported to the MEFBP. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Supporting documents on the origin of the funds must be submitted. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing must be reported to the MEFBP and the BEAC. Maintenance of accounts abroad Accounts abroad may be opened freely but they may be used only for settling transactions with correspondent accounts abroad and not for speculative purposes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending (and repayment of loans) must be reported to the MEFBP and the BEAC within 30 days of execution. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions are prohibited. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange These transactions are subject to MEFBP authorization, Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Authorized banks may invest part of their equity capital abroad with authorization by the BEAC and the Banking Commission. Nonresidents may be authorized to invest in local banks with the authorization of the BEAC and the Banking Commission. Effective October 25, 2003, a limit of 15% applies to the ratio between the weighted aver- age of the long or short position (whichever is higher) in each foreign currency and the net equity capital, up to a 45% ratio across all currencies. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n .r. Changes During 2003 Imports and import payments April 10. The import tariff surcharge applicable to imports of cooking oil and soap was removed. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions October 25. A limit of 15% between the weighted average of the long or short position in each foreign currency and the net equity capital, up to a maximum of 45% in all currencies, was imposed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 363 Changes During 2004 Imports and import payments January 22. The surcharge on imports of lubricants and water was removed. Exports and export proceeds February 23. The export tax on unprocessed forestry products was reduced to 17% from 20% and that on manganese to 3.5% from 5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 21, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian dalasi. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the dalasi is determined in the foreign exchange market. The Central Bank of the Gambia (CBG) actively intervenes in the foreign exchange market by both selling and buy ing foreign exchange. Commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus are free to transact among themselves, with the CBG, or with customers at exchange rates agreed on by the parties to these transactions. The CBG conducts a foreign exchange mar- ket review session on the last working day of each week with the participation of the com- mercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus. During this session, the average market rate during the week is announced as the rate applied to government transactions and customs valuations for the following week. The Gambia participates in the W-ERM II of the WAMZ, which requires that the spot exchange rate between the Gambian dalasi and the dollar be maintained within margins of ±15% around the central rate. However, the authorities have yet to implement these measures. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements n .a. Regional arrangements The Gambia participates in the WAMA. Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. n.a. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA 365 Held domestically Commercial banks are allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts for their clients, provided that the banks have demonstrated to the CBG that they have well-developed internal risk-control systems in place. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. Yes. Negative list Imports of certain goods are subject to prior authorization for health or security reasons. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs duty rates range from zero to 18%. All merchandise imports are subject to a na- tional sales tax of 10% calculated on the c.i.f. value. Imports by the government, diplomatic missions, and charitable organizations are exempt from this tax. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes The exportation of forestry products is subject to prior authorization from the Forestry Department. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 366 THE GAMBIA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad There are no capital markets or stock exchange markets in The Gambia. These instruments do not exist in The Gambia. Yes. No. No. No. No. These transactions are not restricted except when controlled under the Financial Institutions Act. Maintenance of accounts abroad These transactions are subject to reporting to the CBG. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Restrictions apply on the types and amounts of investment abroad. Banks may not invest in foreign securities. Open foreign exchange position limits Foreign exchange exposure limits set by the CBG must be observed on a weekly basis, and transactions must be reported daily to the CBG. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GEORGIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 20, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Georgia is the Georgian lari. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate While the National Bank of Georgia (NBG) does not intervene in the market to support the exchange rate, it purchases foreign exchange when this is consistent with its inflation ob- jectives and to build up off ic ial reserves. Based on additional information on the nature of off ic ial interventions in the foreign exchange market, the exchange rate regime of Georgia was reclassified, effective January 1, 2003, to the category managed floating with no prede- termined path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. The official exchange rate for the dollar is determined daily. The official rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates for the dollar and the currencies concerned in the international market. The official exchange rates are used for budget and tax accounting purposes, as well as for all payments between the government and enterprises and other legal entities. The NBG and the major commercial banks participate in the fixing sessions at the Tbilisi Interbank Currency Exchange for all commercial transactions; the exchange rate of the lari is negotiated freely between the banks and foreign exchange bureaus that are licensed by the NBG and their customers. Foreign exchange bureaus are permitted to buy and sell foreign currency notes. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market This market is largely inoperative. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Yes. Yes. All domestic settlements must be made in lari. Payments arrangements No. Administration of control The NBG is responsible for issuing a single license to perform banking operations in domestic and foreign currencies. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Off ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Georgia has off ic ial arrears to bilateral creditors. A license is required to trade in gold. 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 368 GEORGIA Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Up to four units of each currency denomination may be taken out without permission. For exports exceeding this limit, NBG authorization is required. No controls apply on the amounts that may be exported, but exports of foreign currency must be declared. Yes. No controls apply on the amounts that may be imported, but imports of foreign currency must be declared. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No restrictions apply on the opening and use of these accounts, and the balances may be used for all authorized transactions. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imported cigarettes are subject to a higher rate of excise tax than domestically produced cigarettes. Negative list Licenses are required for imports of weapons, narcotics, industrial equipment, medicines, and agricultural pesticides; licenses are issued by the State Committee on Foreign Economic Relations (SCFER). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import taxes and/or tariffs GEORGIA 369 On January 1, 2003, a new tariff structure of 22 rates ranging from zero to 30% came into effect. Previously, there were three rates ranging up to 12%, with the highest rate levied on a majority of non-CIS imports and imports of fuels from CIS countries, and a 5% rate lev- ied on certain other goods. Items exempt from customs duties include baby food, fue l, oil petroleum products, goods for embassies, imported goods in customs warehouses, reex- ports, some pharmaceutical products, and raw materials and intermediate products destined for production of goods to be exported within certain limits. A customs clearance fee of 0.15% (but not less than lari 50 and not exceeding lari 2,000) of the value of the product is applied to all imports. State import monopoly n.a. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Yes. Licensing is administered by the SCFER. Licenses are required for logs; scrap metal; pine seeds; numismatic collections considered national treasures; certain biological, paleon- tological, archaeological, and ethnographic goods; and raw materials for the production of medicine. Exports of arms and narcotics are subject, in practice, to prohibitions. Yes. A customs clearance fee of 0.15% (but not less than lari 50 and not exceeding lari 2,000) of the value of the product is applied to all exports. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Prior approval Indicative limits and bona f ide tests apply to all payments for invisible transactions and current transfers. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Inward and outward capital operations are not restricted but are subject to registration re- quirements for mon i tor ing purposes. The issuance, trading, recording, and redemption of government securities are regulated. Controls on capital and money market instruments No. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls apply on all these transactions except for purchases abroad by residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 370 GEORGIA Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Under the Foreign Investment Law, the taxation and promotion of investment activities by joint ventures and foreign enterprises are regulated by the current tax legislation. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements No. No. No. The NBG has set limits on credits issued by commercial banks to an individual borrower, an insider borrower, the 10 largest borrowers, and all borrowers, and has established rules for creating loss provisions for assets (including credits). Effective July 1, 2003, the reserve requirements are 13% and 9% for foreign and domestic currency deposits, respectively. Previously, the reserve requirements were unified at 14%. On September 20, 2003, the NBG introduced new rules for setting the reserve require- ments at 4% and zero on the average balances of each commercial bank's correspondent accounts in the NBG, in foreign currency and domestic currency, respectively. Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement January L The exchange rate regime of Georgia was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. Imports and import payments January L A new tariff structure came into effect increasing the number of tariff rates to 22 from 3 and the maximum rate to 30% from 12%. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions July L The reserve requirements were modified to 13% and 9% for foreign and domestic currency deposits, respectively, from a un if ied rate of 14%. September 20. The NBG introduced new rules for setting the reserve requirements at 4% and zero on the average balances of each commercial bank's correspondent accounts in the NBG, in foreign currency and domestic currency, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Germany is the euro. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Germany participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. The ECB may intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. No. No. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate forward exchange contracts for both commercial and financial transactions in all leading convertible currencies in the domestic exchange market and in international foreign exchange markets. Germany has no officially fixed rates in the forward exchange market. All transactions are negotiated at free market rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements No. No. Administration of control All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, cer- tain restrictions are maintained on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions with respect to Myanmar, certain individuals associated with the previ- ous government of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe. Effective August 27, 2003, financial sanctions against Iraq were rescinded and now apply only to individuals and entities related to the former government. Effective January 27, 2003, the financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia are prohibited. Effective October 2, 2003, financing and financial assistance for any sale, supply, transfer, or export of arms and related material to any person, entity, or body in the Democratic Republic of the Congo are prohibited. Restrictions also apply on transfers with respect to the Taliban and ind iv idua ls and organizations associated with terrorism. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Provisional decrees have been passed, freezing the accounts of and banning payments in favor of the Taliban, listed terrorists, and persons and organizations related to terrorism. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. No. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 372 GERMANY Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Yes. The importation of certain nontextile goods from China is subject to the EU's annual global quota. Imports of numerous textile products are subject to the agreement on textiles and clothing and to bilateral agreements and regulations of the EU with various supplier countries. Most goods covered by the CAP are subject to variable import levies. Imports of rolled steel products from Russia and Ukraine are subject to an annual quota under a voluntary restric- tions agreement. Imports of rolled steel products from Kazakhstan are subject to an autonomous EU quota. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. Documentation requirements For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY 373 Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Certain exports (mostly military and dual-use goods) are subject to individual, global, or general licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. There are certain provisions for prudential regulation of portfolios of life insurance and pension funds. The regulations governing securities apply. Currency-matching regulations for life insurance, pension funds, and old-age provision investment funds exist. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. Financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia were prohibited. Changes During 2003 August 27. Financial sanctions against Iraq were rescinded. October 2. Financing and financial assistance for any sale, supply, transfer, or export of arms and related materials to any person, entity, or body in the Democratic Republic of the Congo were prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 2, 1994. Currency The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian cedi. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the cedi is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The average exchange rate is based on the average rates reported by authorized banks in their transactions with each other or with their customers. Rates are quoted by authorized dealers for certain other currencies, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the dollar in markets abroad. On August 31, 2003, Ghana joined the W-ERM II of the WMAZ, which requires that the spot exchange rate between the cedi and the dollar be maintained within margins of ±15% around the central rate. However, the authorities have yet to implement these measures. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements related to transactions covered by bilateral payment agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana (BOG) and the central banks of the countries concerned. Proceeds from exports to countries with which Ghana does not have bilateral payment agreements must be received in the currency of the importing coun- try (if that currency is quoted by the BOG) or debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana for transfers to other official accounts related to the same country and for transfers to the related clearing account at the BOG. The Exchange Control Act prohibits the quotation of prices and the acceptance of payments for goods and services in foreign exchange. However, authorized dealers may conduct their business in foreign exchange. Ghana has agreements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Republic. There have been delays in the settlement of clearing balances on these agreements. Ghana is a member of the WAMA. Yes. The BOG records and confirms foreign capital inflows and administers foreign exchange for official payments and travel. All foreign exchange transactions by the private sector are approved and effected by authorized banks without reference to the BOG. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 374 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 375 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may purchase, sell, and hold gold coins and jewelry. Buying and selling of gold in any other form require authorization. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Ghanaian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from or sell or lend any gold to any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than those by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not normally licensed. The import duty on gold, including bullion and partly worked gold, is levied at a uniform rate of 25% in addition to the VAT. All exports of gold are subject to BOG approval. The exportation of Ghanaian banknotes is permitted up to 05,000. Residents traveling abroad are permitted to carry up to the equivalent of $3,000. In addi- tion, resident travelers are permitted to carry up to $5,000 or its equivalent in traveler's checks or bank drafts for direct purchases. Nonresident travelers may export foreign cur- rency they have declared on entry. Travelers may reimport up to the equivalent of the 05,000 that they were allowed to export. Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Conversion is not allowed, except for approved purposes. Nonresident Accounts The accounts may be credited with transfers from other foreign exchange accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of convertible currency. They may be debited for payments, for transfers to other foreign accounts, and for purchases of external currencies. Nonresi- dent account status is granted to embassies, delegations, consulates, and offices of high commissioners in Ghana and to the non-Ghanaian members of their staff. It is also avail- able to international institutions and foreign-registered companies operating in Ghana, and to nonresident Ghanaians. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 376 GHANA Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports valued at the equivalent of $5,000 or more are subject to destination inspections. Most imports are effected with confirmed LCs established through authorized banks on a sight basis. Imports on a collection basis are permitted. Imports of narcotic drugs are prohibited, and imports of small and dangerous weapons are restricted. The maximum tariff rate is 20% of the c.i.f, value of imports. Importers without a taxpayer identification number are subject to a 5% withholding income tax on the value of their imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exporters are required to collect and repatriate in fu ll the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; proceeds from exports of nontraditional products may be sold at market rates upon receipt in the banks. Nontraditional exports are not subject to surrender requirements, while 20% to 40% of gold and 98% of cocoa export proceeds are surrendered to the BOG. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation No. Yes. Preshipment inspection All exports are subject to customs inspection. Other Export licenses Export taxes Yes. No. Cocoa exports are subject to a tax that is calculated as the difference between export pro- ceeds and payments to farmers, together with the Cocoa Board's costs if proceeds exceed payments. Lumber exports are subject to a 7% tax (calculated on the f.o.b. value). Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the application is properly documented. Prior approval is required for the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Residents traveling abroad are permitted to carry up to the equivalent of $3,000. In addition, resident travelers are permitted to carry up to the equivalent of $5,000 in traveler's checks or bank drafts for direct purchases abroad. Nonresidents may reexport foreign currency declared on arrival. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 377 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All receipts from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers or held in foreign exchange- denominated bank accounts in resident banks. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase securities listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE); individ- ual holdings and total holdings of all nonresidents in any one security listed on the GSE may not exceed 10% and 74%, respectively. For companies not listed on the GSE, nonresi- dent participation requires the following minimum equity injections to acquire shares: (1) $10,000 or its equivalent in capital goods when the enterprise is a joint venture; (2) $50,000 or its equivalent in capital goods when the enterprise is wholly owned by a non-Ghanaian; and (3) $300,000 or its equivalent in capital goods in the case of a trading enterprise involved only in the purchasing and selling of goods that is either wholly or partly owned by a non-Ghanaian and that employs at least 10 Ghanaians. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require prior approval from the BOG and the MOF. The transfer or repa- triation of proceeds from sales must be reported to the BOG. Purchase abroad by residents There are no controls on these purchases, but the purchase of foreign exchange to buy secu- rities requires the prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require the prior approval of the BOG. Bonds or other debt securities These transactions require the prior approval of the BOG. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Current regulations do not allow nonresidents to bring in foreign exchange for the purpose of investing in local money market instruments (BOG and government securities). How- ever, nonresidents holding accounts in domestic currency may invest in these instruments. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents No controls apply to these purchases, but the purchase of foreign exchange to buy these instruments requires the prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These purchases require prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions, as well as the transfer abroad of proceeds associated with these sales, including those derived from the liquidation of such securities, require BOG approval. Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of foreign exchange to buy such securities requires prior approval from the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require the consent of the MOF. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Currently, only a limited local market in derivatives exists. These transactions require BOG approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 378 GHANA Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits BOG approval is required for these credits, which must be channeled through the banking system. Transactions must be supported by relevant documents. To residents from nonresidents These credits require BOG approval. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment All capital outflows must be approved by the BOG; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. Foreign investments in Ghana require the prior approval of the Ghana Investment Promotion Center (GIPC) if they are to benefit from the facilities available under the GIPC Act, under which approved investments are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer income from investments and, in the event of sale or liquidation, capital proceeds. Tax holidays and initial capital allowances are also available for such investments. The minimum qualifying amounts of investment by a non-Ghanaian are as follows: (1) $10,000 or its equivalent in capital goods by way of equity participation in a joint- venture enterprise with a Ghanaian partner; (2) $50,000 or its equivalent in capital goods by way of equity when the enterprise is wholly owned by a non-Ghanaian; and (3) $300,000 or its equivalent in goods by way of equity capital when the enterprise is either wholly or partly owned by a non-Ghanaian, employs at least 10 Ghanaians, and is involved in the purchasing and selling of goods. The GIPC Act stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated. Dis- putes over the amount of compensation are settled in accordance with the established pro- cedure for conciliation (e.g., through arbitration by the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes or the United Nations Commission on International Trade and Law). Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions There are controls on all personal capital movements, except regarding the transfer of assets into the country by immigrants. Loans These transactions are subject to BOG approval. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents These transfers require BOG approval. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions These transfers require BOG approval. Yes. Yes. Borrowing abroad BOG notification is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad BOG notification is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 379 Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) BOG approval is required. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents These purchases are allowed within reasonable or acceptable limits. Foreign currency deposits are subject to a 9% reserve requirement, and the reserve balance must be held with the BOG. All banks must have minimum capital of 070 billion. For foreign-owned banks, 60% of capital must consist of convertible currencies brought into Ghana. Open foreign exchange position limits The daily single-currency exposure limit is 15% of the capital base, and that on the aggre- gate net open position is 30%. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Exchange arrangement August 31. Ghana joined the W-ERM II of the WAMZ. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 22, 1992. Currency The currency of Greece is the euro. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Greece participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. The ECB may intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. No. No. Forward coverage is provided by domestic credit institutions to their customers in all major currencies at freely negotiable market rates. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with all countries may be made in euros or any convertible foreign currency or through nonresident deposit accounts in any currency. No. There are no exchange controls. Resident credit institutions are authorized to carry out all the necessary formalities for the settlement of all transactions with nonresidents and are required to provide to the Bank of Greece (BOG) all the information necessary to compile the balance of payments. Restrictive measures apply on payments and transfers involving accounts and assets related to the Taliban and persons designated as terrorists. These measures were taken in accor- dance with the relevant EU and UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, certain restrictions are maintained on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to the former government of Iraq, Myanmar, certain individuals associated with the previous government of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe. In accordance with EU Regulation No. 147/2003, effective January 27, 2003, f inanc ing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia are prohibited. Restrictions also apply on transfers with respect to the Taliban and individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Natural and juridical persons, residents, and nonresidents are free to purchase and sell gold coins and/or bars that are not used for commercial and industrial purposes. This gold may be purchased by and sold to the BOG and/or any other credit institution operating in Greece authorized to carry out transactions in foreign exchange. Controls on external trade Effective January 21, 2004, residents and nonresidents are no longer required for statistical purposes to declare upon entering and/or leaving Greece amounts of gold exceeding the 380 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 381 equivalent of €10,000 and €2,000, respectively, or to submit a copy of the document certi- fying that the relevant latter transaction was carried out by a resident credit institution. Effective January 21, 2004, the statistical requirements that residents and nonresidents leav- ing Greece must declare amounts of banknotes in domestic and/or foreign currency exceed- ing the equivalent of €2,000 were abolished. In this declaration, they were required to spec- ify the purpose of the export of banknotes; in addition, residents of Greece had to provide their fiscal number. Yes. Yes. Effective January 21, 2004, residents and nonresidents entering Greece are no longer re- quired to declare imported banknotes in domestic and foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of €10,000. Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Residents are permitted to convert deposits in domestic currency held with resident credit institutions into foreign currency deposits. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are required for some specific products from certain low-cost countries under EU surveillance. Special regulations govern imports of certain items, such as medi- cines, narcotics, and motion picture films. Licenses with quotas Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 382 GREECE Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no limits for these transactions. Effective January 21, 2004, cross-border transac- tions exceeding the equivalent of €12,500 no longer require supporting documentation (previously, this was required for statistical purposes). Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Existing legislation on inward direct investment imposes certain controls on the purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature in the broadcasting and maritime sectors by non-EU residents. No. No. Investments in border regions by non-EU residents require approval for reasons of national security. There are also controls on the acquisition of mining rights and participation in new or existing enterprises if these are engaged in radio and television broadcasting or maritime or air transport. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 383 Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors No. No. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents There are certain prudential provisions that d iffer according to the type of institutional investor. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad There are certain prudential provisions that differ according to the type of institutional investor. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally There are certain prudential provisions that d iffer according to the type of institutional investor. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws For prudential purposes, the provisions applied to EU countries are in effect. No. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. Financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia were prohibited. Changes During 2004 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 21. Imports and exports of gold in excess of the equivalent of €10,000 for residents and €2,000 for nonresidents no longer required declaration. January 21. Imports of banknotes in domestic or foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of €10,000 and exports exceeding €2,000 no longer required declaration. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 21. Supporting documentation was no longer required for cross-border transactions exceeding the equivalent of €12,500. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 24, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Grenada is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, which is issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, under a currency board arrangement, at ECS2.70 per US$1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of member countries of the CARICOM must be made either through external accounts in Eastern Caribbean dollars, in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with residents of the former Sterling Area, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in pounds sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in Eastern Caribbean dollars from external accounts. Settlements with residents of other countries are made in any foreign currency or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Grenada is a member of the CARICOM. Grenada participates in the CMCF. Exchange control is administered by the MOF and applies to all countries. All transactions up to the equivalent of EC$250,000 in foreign currency are allowed without approval from the MOF. The MOF delegates to authorized dealers (ADs) the authority to approve some import payments and certain other outward payments. Exchange controls are not applied to payments for authorized imports. The Trade and Industry Unit of the MOF administers trade control. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions apply to trade with Libya. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents other than the monetary authorities, ADs, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Controls on external trade Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. The MOF issues licenses to import gold. The exportation of gold is not normally permitted. 384 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 385 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency Nonresident travelers may export, with the approval of the MOF, any foreign currency they previously brought into Grenada, and both residents and nonresidents must receive permis- sion from the MOF to take out, in any one transaction, a sum in excess of the equivalent of EC$250,000. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be freely debited but may be credited only with foreign exchange earned or received from outside the ECCB area. Holders of these accounts must submit regular statements of debits and credits to the MOF. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.r. n.r. n.r. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts The regulations governing resident accounts apply. Domestic currency accounts These accounts must be credited with funds from an external source. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for documented imports are free of restrictions. Payments for restricted imports and any goods and services in excess of the limits applicable to ADs require permission from the MOF. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs Prohibited goods include whole chickens, chicken eggs, live breeding poultry, war toys, animal skins, and various drugs deemed to be dangerous. There are quantitative restrictions on certain items from non-CARICOM sources, including arms and ammunition, carbonated beverages, flour, industrial gas, paints, and miscellane- ous items associated with furniture and the construction industry. Items from the CARICOM area that require licenses include curry products, industrial gas, furniture, and solar water heaters. Grenada applies the fourth phase CARICOM CET. All imports from non-CARICOM countries are subject to the following CET rates: 40% for most agricultural imports and 5% to 20% for most other items. All imports are subject to a 5% customs service charge, except for some manufactured products, for which a rate of 2.5% applies. Imports not granted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 386 GRENADA exemptions from customs duties are subject to a general consumption tax (GCT) regime with three broad rates of 10% and 15% for CARICOM countries, and 25% for all other countries. There are three additional GCT rates of 50%, 55%, and 75% that are applied to specific items, such as new cars, foreign used cars, and cigarettes, respectively. There are environmental levies of EC$0.25 on each imported glass bottle and of ECS0.50 on each plastic bottle containing liquid (including carbonated and noncarbonated beverages and syrups). Other levies include a 1% charge on the c.i.f. value of white goods (durable consumer items), a 2% charge on the c.i.f. value of imported used cars under five years old, and a 30% charge on cars five years old or older. Imports of capital equipment are subject to a m in imum charge of 5% under the GET and 25% under the consumption tax. However, most capital imports are granted exemptions from import duties, and all capital imports by domestic commodity boards involved in the growing or packaging of bananas, cocoa, or nutmeg are exempt from import duties, provided that the imports are used for improvements in these industries. State import monopoly The Marketing and National Importing Board is the sole authorized importer of bulk purchases of fu ll cream milk, white and brown sugar, and brown rice. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Proceeds must be surrendered to ADs (commercial banks). n.a. n.a. Licenses are required for traditional export crops (i.e., bananas, cocoa, nutmeg, and minor spices). Licenses are also required to export fresh fruits, fish, plants required for the establishment or expansion of any agricultural industry in Grenada, gas cylinders, coral, all minerals, and live sheep. Certain exports, such as birds, live goats, fauna, flora, and items considered part of Grenada's national heritage, are prohibited. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted but require the ap- proval of the MOF whenever a single transaction exceeds the equivalent of EC$250,000. Yes. Yes. Yes. Approval is granted if all related liabilities have been discharged and the investment is registered with the MOF. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 387 Personal payments Prior approval For study abroad, MOF approval is required, and permission is usually granted on presenta- tion of documentation of registration and the costs of tuition and other expenses. For the transfer of pensions, approval is granted upon proof of immigrant status. For family main- tenance and alimony payments, approval is granted upon proof of established liabilities. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Approval is granted upon proof of immigrant status. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval The limit for the payment of subscriptions and membership fees is the equivalent of EC$250,000 a transaction. MOF approval is required and is granted on the basis of agreements incorporating payments for consulting services and legal fees. Payments may be made up to the amount approved, subject to withholding of income tax, where applicable. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements The surrender of foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Any single outward capital transaction in excess of the equivalent of EC$250,000 requires exchange control approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval is required. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval is required. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 388 GRENADA Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Local currency financing requires the approval of the MOF, but is not ordinarily permitted. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Direct investments abroad exceeding the equivalent of EC$250,000 must be effected in installments and require the approval of the Financial Secretary. Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Cabinet approval via the Industrial Development Corporation is normally required for non- residents to operate manufacturing enterprises and hotels, and an alien landholding license is required for nonresidents to hold both financial and physical property. Nonresident labor services are generally permitted with work permits, which are issued by the Ministry of Labor. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Remittances of proceeds are permitted, provided that all related liabilities have been dis- charged and that the original investment was registered with the MOF: Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents An alien landholding license must be issued by the Off ice of the Prime Minister. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Any borrowing abroad by nationals to finance their domestic operations generally requires the approval of the MOF. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Yes. Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) ADs may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies to finance ap- proved transfers for both trade and nontrade transactions. Any borrowing abroad by ADs to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the MOF. Local currency financing requires the approval of the MOF, but is not ordinarily permitted. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 389 Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 27, 1947. Currency The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan quetzal. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate is determined in the foreign exchange market in which the Bank of Guatemala (BOG) purchases foreign exchange on behalf of the public sector and to service its own external debt and intervenes occasionally to moderate undue fluctuations. All foreign exchange transactions of the public sector must take place through the BOG at a reference rate that is equivalent to the weighted average of the buying and selling rates in the foreign exchange market during the day before the previous business day. On the basis of additional information on the implementation of monetary policy by the BOG, the exchange regime of Guatemala has been reclassified, effective January 1, 2003, to the category independently floating from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. No. No. The Bolsa de Valores Nacional, S.A. is responsible for the operation and administration of the forward exchange market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements For capital transactions In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in dollars, in accordance with special payments agreements. The issue of securities denominated in foreign exchange by banks and other financial institutions requires prior approval by the Monetary Board. Transactions in capital and money market instruments Yes. Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control The Panama-Guatemala Clearing and Credit Reciprocal Agreement is operative. The Clearing and Credit Reciprocal Agreement between Guatemala and Costa Rica, El Salvador, and Honduras functioned until 1995, and the Mexico-Guatemala Clearing and Credit Reciprocal Agreement functioned until 2002. Guatemala is a member of the CACM. Yes. The Monetary Board (which includes the BOG and the MOF) approves annually Guatemala's exchange policies. The BOG administers the exchange regime and may buy and sell foreign exchange to implement these policies. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 390 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA 391 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. No. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of most goods are unrestricted and require neither registration nor a license. However, imports of some agricultural commodities and animal products are subject to non-tariff restrictions. The list includes goods considered dangerous to society, such as weapons, certain chemicals, and drugs. Weapons may be imported only with the approval of the appropriate department. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Guatemala applies the GET for processed goods from CACM countries, which ranges from zero to 15%, with virtually all other intra-CACM trade exempt from tariffs. The maximum tariff rates on raw materials and intermediate and capital goods not produced in Central America are 5% and 10%, respectively, while the tariff rate on raw materials and intermediate and capital goods produced in Central America is zero. Some processed products, such as coffee, sugar, oil, wheat, and alcohol, which are traded with CACM countries, are subject to tar iffs ranging from zero to 40%. Guatemala's tariff structure continues to exempt certain processed products from the maximum GET rate of 15%. The tariff rates for most footwear and textiles are 21% and 14%, respectively, and those for tires range from 5% to 15%. In addition, certain agricultural products enjoy safeguard provisions and are subject to tariff rate quotas under WTO rules, which also allow tariffs well above the maximum rate for imports in excess of their quota. Sugar is subject to a quota of 100,000 metric tons a year, with tariffs of zero within quota and 20% in excess of quota. Other examples are apples (12% and 25%); wheat flour (zero and 10%) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 392 GUATEMALA yellow corn (5% and 35%), and rice (zero and 23.7%). These quotas are adjusted yearly, following discussions between the private sector and the government. A trade agreement exists between El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Mexico giving certain tariff benefits to the participants. There is also a trade agreement with the Dominican Republic. Effective January 16, 2003, the tariff rates for 52 products were temporarily increased up to 40% in some cases in order to offset the short-term loss of revenue due to changes in other taxes. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Exports of sugar, apparel, and textiles to the United States are subject to quotas. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Capital Transactions Inward direct investment Foreign direct investment in the petroleum sector is regulated by special legislation. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA 393 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange The purchase of privately issued securities requires prior approval from the Monetary Board. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are required to maintain positions as instructed by the monetary authorities. Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition The difference between total assets and total liabilities (including future payments and contingencies in foreign currency) may not exceed 60% of paid-up capital and reserves. If the difference is negative, it may not exceed 20% of paid-up capital and reserves. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement January L On the basis of additional information on the implementation of monetary policy by the BOG, the exchange regime of Guatemala was reclassified to the category independently floating from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. Imports and import payments January 16. As a temporary measure to offset revenue loss due to other tax charges, the tariff rates for 52 goods were increased up to 40% in some cases. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 17, 1995. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea is the Guinean franc. Silver commemorative coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Dual. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The official exchange rate is determined in monthly foreign exchange auctions managed by the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea (CBRG). Guinea participates in the W-ERMII of the WAMZ, which limits the fluctuations of the Guinean franc to ±15% around a central rate vis-a-vis the dollar. However, the CBRG maintains a steady relationship vis-a-vis the dollar within margins of ±1%. A significant number of transactions take place on the parallel market at a large spread from the official rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All current transactions effected in Guinea must be settled in Guinean francs. Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements. Settlements with countries other than members of the WAMZ are made in designated convertible currencies quoted by the CBRG. All payments and transactions among residents must be made or settled in Guinean francs. Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Romania, and Russia. A multilateral clearing agreement exists between the WAEMU members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control authority is vested in the CBRG, which has delegated to the commercial banks authority to (1) sign import descriptions and import applications; (2) allocate foreign exchange to travelers holding airline tickets for travel abroad; and (3) manage foreign currency accounts. All international settlements, including payments for imports, may be effected by commercial banks. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Yes. 394 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency GUINEA 395 The CBRG purchases gold only in Guinean francs at international prices. Transactions in nonmonetary gold are not subject to restrictions. The exportation of gold is subject to prior authorization by the CBRG and requires the payment of applicable taxes. Exportation is limited to GF 100,000 a person a trip. Exportation of foreign currency is subject to prior authorization by the CBRG. There is no limit on exports; however, travelers must provide supporting documents for amounts exceeding the equivalent of $5,000. Importation is limited to GF 100,000 a person a trip. The importation of foreign banknotes and traveler's checks is permitted, subject to declara- tion on entry. Residents, however, must surrender both to commercial banks or exchange them for Guinean francs. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Residents are free to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks. Exporters may hold all of their earnings in foreign currency in local bank accounts. These accounts are permitted, but prior approval of the CBRG is required for juridical persons and a simple notification to the CBRG is required for natural persons. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Accounts in convertible Guinean francs may be credited with deposits in foreign exchange, irrespective of their origin. The accounts may be debited freely and converted by commer- cial banks into foreign currencies without prior authorization from the CBRG. Interest rates on these accounts are negotiated between the account holder and the bank. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Domestic currency accounts The regulations governing resident accounts apply. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Yes. Yes. Minimum financing requirements The minimum financing requirement is $2,000 or its equivalent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 396 GUINEA Advance payment requirements Advance payments may be made on the basis of commercial contracts. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports of armaments, ammunitions, and narcotics are prohibited. All imports are subject to an 18% VAT, a fiscal import duty (DFE) of 8%, and a customs duty (DDE) of 7%, with the following exceptions: animals, flour, sugar, pharmaceutical products, and fertilizers are subject to a DFE of 6% and a DDE of 2%; and food industry imports, cement, and agricultural machinery are subject to a DFE of 8% and a DDE of 2%. In addition, a surtax of 20% to 70% is imposed on all luxury goods, nonalcoholic bever- ages, certain wines, and spirits. Imports by the three semipublic enterprises in the mining sector are regulated by special agreements and are subject to a 5.6% levy. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Private traders may retain all of their proceeds to finance authorized imports. Gold exporters and vendors may retain all of their proceeds. Semipublic enterprises may retain abroad all of their proceeds and may use them for import payments, operating expenses, and external debt service. No. Yes. Yes. All private sector exports require domiciliation with a commercial bank and submission of an export description aimed at preventing shortages of goods needed for domestic con- sumption and at identifying capital outflows. Mining sector exports are exempt from this requirement. Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes The exportation of wild animals (dead or alive), meats, articles of historic or ethnographic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds require special authorization from designated agencies. These are applicable to agricultural exports. There are quotas on the export of wild animals and articles of historic or ethnographic interest. Exports of diamonds are subject to a tax of 3%, and exports of gold and other precious metals to a 5% tax. Other export taxes Mining and petroleum products are subject to other export taxes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 397 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Yes. Trade-related payments There are no controls on payments of unloading and storage expenses. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Prior approval is required for government operations. Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Yes. Yes. Yes. Prior approval is required for payments of pensions. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are no indicative limits or bona fide rates for payments of pensions. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is granted only for contracts approved by the Ministry of Labor. Foreign workers may transfer up to 50% of their taxable income. Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature All capital transfers through the official exchange market require authorization from the CBRG. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals through the official market are prohibited. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities There are currently no transactions involving bonds. On money market instruments The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit and guarantee operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 398 GUINEA Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Authorization by the CBRG is required. There are no limits on amounts that nonresidents may invest in Guinea, and all Guinean and foreign nationals may hold controlling interests in Guinean enterprises. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Authorization by the CBRG is required for all real estate transactions. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions There are controls on all these operations. Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) The only form of lending to nonresidents that is allowed is overdraft protection on domestic currency checking accounts. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 1, 1997. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at a fixed rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market vis-a-vis the euro. A bank commission of 0.25% is levied on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU. It must be surrendered to the treasury in its entirety. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Guinea-Bissau is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made in CFA francs, euros, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Certain settlements are channeled through special accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected either through correspondent banks in France in the currencies of those countries or in euros through foreign accounts in CFA francs. Yes. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A multilateral clearing agreement exists between the WAEMU members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of the Treasury in the MOF. The ap- proval authority for exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward ex- change cover, and the opening of external accounts in foreign currency) has been delegated to the BCEAO, which also is authorized to collect—either directly or through banks, finan- cial institutions, the postal administration, or judicial agents —any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the postal administration, or the BCEAO. Settlements with a country outside the Operations Account area must be formally approved by the customs administration. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000. 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 400 GUINEA-BISSAU International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Controls on external trade Exports and imports of gold are prohibited unless expressly authorized. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency The exportation of CFA franc banknotes by nonresident travelers is not prohibited; however, repurchases by the BCEAO of exported banknotes are suspended. In addition, shipments of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondents situated outside the WAEMU are officially prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above this ceiling requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits held in local banks. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or with banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MOF, and the approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts may be opened, but approval is required. The holding of these accounts is not explicitly prohibited, but regulations prohibit any transfer with the aim of increasing a resident's foreign holdings unless approved by the MOF. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the WAEMU territories, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without the prior authorization of the MOF. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Foreign accounts denominated in CFA francs may be freely debited for the purpose of purchase by nonresidents of any foreign currency on the official exchange market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 401 Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures All imports, regardless of whether they involve the use of official or free market foreign exchange, require a prior import license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism, primarily for statistical purposes. Except for a short negative list, licenses are issued automatically after verification of invoice prices for goods to be taxed. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs The GET of the WAEMU consists of four rates; zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries are not required to be repatriated. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be surrendered within one month of the date on which payments fall due. The authorized intermediary bank must then transfer them to the BCEAO via the bank of issue. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. Yes. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports require a prior export license. Only exporters registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism may obtain these licenses, which are granted automatically in most cases and are for statistical purposes. No products are reserved for export by the public sector. Yes. Cashew nut exports are subject to a special tax of 10%, except those to ECOWAS countries. Other agricultural exports are subject to a rural property tax of 2%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Returning resident travelers must surrender unspent foreign exchange exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000. Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 402 GUINEA-BISSAU Surrender requirements All amounts due from residents of other countries with respect to services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Capital Transactions All investments abroad by residents require prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of the amount of these investments must be financed with borrowing from abroad. The liqui- dation of foreign investments must be reported to the MOF, and the reinvestment of pro- ceeds is subject to prior authorization. If authorization is not given for the reinvestment, the proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank within one month. Capital transfers to WAEMU member countries are unrestricted, except for direct investments, which are subject to prior declaration. Certain borrowing operations also are subject to prior authorization. Prior authorization is waived with respect to (1) borrowing guaranteed by the government of Guinea-Bissau and (2) foreign shares that are similar to securities, the issuance, public announcement, or sale of which has already been approved in Guinea-Bissau. There is also special surveillance of calls for subscribed funds for purposes of deposit with foreign nationals, corporations, or institutions, as well as of any public announcement for the purpose of investing funds abroad or investing in foreign construction or real estate operations. These special provisions also apply to France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries. Yes. Yes. Residents are free to sell their shares of resident companies abroad. If the effect of such operations is to place resident Guinea-Bissau companies under foreign control, the foreign investors must make a prior declaration to the MOF. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. These investments are governed by the regulations generally applicable to securities and investments, except for commodity and security call and put options, which residents may freely purchase abroad. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU 403 Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents There are no controls on credits related to exports of goods, provided that the due date of the payment does not exceed 180 days after the goods arrive at their destination. There are no controls on credits in connection with services rendered. In these cases, no deadline is set for the date on which payment falls due. There are no controls, and repayments of commercial credits are generally approved, sub- ject to the presentation of documents attesting to the validity of the commercial operation or of the services rendered. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment If these transactions take place between a direct investment company established in Guinea-Bissau and its parent company situated abroad, they are considered direct investments and are subject to prior declaration to the MOF. Yes. Yes. The Investment Code provides for investment incentives and protection against the nationalization and expropriation of assets. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents These transactions are subject to MOF authorization. To residents from nonresidents Loans from nonresidents require notification to the MOF. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents These transactions are subject to MOF authorization. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants These transactions are subject to MOF authorization. Transfer of assets These transactions are subject to MOF authorization. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Lending to nonresidents ( f inanc ial or commercial credits) There are no controls if these operations involve commercial credits. Other loans granted to nonresidents are subject to the prior authorization of the MOF, after the approval of the BCEAO. Lending locally in foreign exchange The regulations governing lending to residents apply. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange The regulations governing lending to residents apply. Credit controls Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 404 GUINEA-BISSAU Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Banking regulations make no distinction among resident, nonresident, and foreign deposit accounts. Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 27, 1966. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Guyana is the Guyana dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Guyana dollar is determined in the cambio market, although the authorities intervene in the foreign exchange market as conditions require. The Bank of Guyana (BOG) conducts certain transactions on the basis of the cambio exchange rate by averaging quotations of the three largest dealers on the date the transaction takes place. In accordance with bilateral agreements with the central banks of the CARICOM, the BOG quotes weekly rates for certain CARICOM currencies. No. No. The only arrangement for forward cover against exchange rate risk operates in the off ic ial sector in respect of exchange rate guarantees that are provided to certain deposits in dor- mant accounts. However, no exchange rate guarantee has been given for deposits made after end-March 1989. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements n.a. Operative There are arrangements with all CARICOM central banks. Regional arrangements Guyana is a member of the CARICOM. Administration of control No. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Private In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, restrictions are applied on financial transactions and assets of the Taliban, Al-Qaida and individuals associated with it, and persons and groups associated with terrorism. Arrears are due to Argentina, Bulgaria, China, Cuba, India, Kuwait, Libya, the United Arab Emirates, and Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela. Arrears exist on certain dormant accounts holding domestic currency deposits equivalent in value to pending applications for foreign exchange. 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 406 GUYANA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form except for numismatic purposes and jewelry, at home or abroad, without special permission. Imports and exports of gold in any form by, or on behalf of, the monetary authorities, au- thorized dealers, producers of gold, and industrial users require permits endorsed by the Guyana Gold Board. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Travelers entering or leaving Guyana must declare foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of US$10,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Exporters are allowed to maintain and operate foreign exchange accounts. These accounts are approved on merit but are generally granted to bona fide exporters who require im- ported inputs for production and/or have external loan obligations. These accounts may be credited with all or a portion of retained export proceeds and proceeds of foreign currency loans. They may be debited freely for any payments at the discretion of the account holder. Yes. Yes. No. The balances of these accounts may be converted at the prevailing cambio exchange rate. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened by commercial banks, without the prior approval of the central bank, for citizens of Guyana residing permanently abroad, citizens of other coun- tries temporarily residing in Guyana, nonresidents attached to diplomatic missions or inter- national organizations, branches of companies incorporated outside Guyana, and companies incorporated in Guyana but controlled by nonresidents abroad. These accounts may be maintained in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or Canadian dollars and may be credited with noncash instruments of convertible foreign currencies transferred through the banking sys- tem. These accounts may also be credited freely with all authorized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to residents of any country, for transfers to other external ac- counts, for withdrawals by the account holder in Guyana, and for transfers to nonresident accounts. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports The BOG prepares a statement of convertible currency receipts and payments to monitor projected flows. Import transactions effected through the cambio exchange market are permitted without restriction. Most imports of consumer goods take place on this basis. Certain payments for official imports effected by commercial banks on behalf of the BOG require the BOG's prior approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs GUYANA 407 Requirements are related mainly to petroleum products. Documents required include in- voices, bills of lading, and certificates of origin. There are no licensing requirements for permissible imports, except for petroleum pro- ducts and some 20 items affecting national security, public health and safety, and the environment. Imports of unprocessed meat, poultry, fruit, and processed fruit items from all non- CARICOM sources are restricted, subject to import-licensing controls. The fourth phase of the CARICOM GET is applied to all imports from sources outside the CARICOM. Duty rates range from 5% to 20%, except for agricultural products, for which the rate is 40%. Effective February 3, 2003, a duty rate of 100% (previously, 125%) applies to imports of chicken from non-CARICOM sources, but those from CARICOM countries are exempt. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for exports of gold and wildlife. Gold exports are not subject to quotas. There are quotas for the supply of some commodities to preferential markets and for wild- life exports. There are levies on exports of rice; the proceeds from this levy are reinvested in the rice industry. On July 24, 2003, the levy on sugar exports was eliminated, however, an export duty of G$l applies to all sugar exports to extraregional destinations. An export duty is applied to exports of timber, bauxite, live birds, and aquarium fish. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. All types of credit operations are controlled. For financial credits to residents from nonresi- dents, banks are required to obtain approval from the MOF before lending to nonresident enterprises. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 408 GUYANA Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. No. Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Banks are required to obtain approval from the MOF before lending locally in foreign ex- change, except for lending to an authorized dealer. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Open positions are monitored. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2003 Imports and import payments February 3. The duty rate on imports of chicken from non-CARICOM sources was reduced to 100% from 125%. Exports and export proceeds July 24. The levy on sugar exports was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 22, 1953. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the Haitian gourde. The dollar circulates freely and is generally accepted in Haiti. Several gold coins have been issued that are legal tender but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Although the exchange rate is determined by market forces in the exchange market, the Bank of the Republic of Haiti (BRH) uses its foreign exchange reserves frequently to meet foreign exchange expenditures of the government, and the exchange rate is influenced by the amount of these transactions. The BRH operates a dollar clearinghouse. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buying and selling rates of the dollar in exchange markets abroad. The market is dominated by banks, with money changers following this market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements n.a. Operative Haiti's debt to Italy has been rescheduled for 2028. Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Haiti is a member of the CARICOM. No. n.a. Yes. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. The BRH has the exclusive right to purchase gold domestically and to export gold in the form of coins, mineral dust, or bars. Exports of gold require, in addition, prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI) and the Ministry of Finance and Eco- nomic Affa irs, as well as an endorsement from the MCI, before customs clearance. How- ever, commercial imports of articles containing a small amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 410 HAITI Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited with export proceeds, with transfers from abroad received by exchange houses, or with receipts from maritime agencies and nongovernment organizations. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Effective August 25, 2003, inspection of imports is performed by the Societe Generate de Surveillance under the Program of Verification of Imports. Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. Import taxes and/or tariffs There are four standard tariff rates—zero, 5%, 10%, and 15%. Several goods have special tariff rates—gasoline, 57.8%; and cement, rice, and sugar, 3%. A domestic turnover tax is charged on the c.i.f. value plus import duties. All imports, except for inputs used by certain export industries, are subject to a 4% verification fee. Because Haiti is a member of the CARICOM, numerous exemptions and suspensions have been negotiated to avoid tariff increases under the GET. These suspensions and extensions are valid until 2005. The sus- pension mechanism can also be used in case of supply shortages and local price increases for certain goods within the common market. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection No. No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI 411 Export licenses Export taxes No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Information is not available on the transfer of pensions, fam i ly maintenance, and alimony. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. No. n.a. No. No. No. No. No. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending may not exceed 50% of liabilities in foreign exchange. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements A reserve requirement ratio of 31% applies to both gourde- and dollar-denominated depos- its at commercial banks, and a ratio of 19% applies to both gourde- and dollar-denominated deposits at savings and housing banks. Credit controls Lending may not exceed 50% of liabilities in foreign exchange. Open foreign exchange position limits An open foreign exchange position limit of 8% of capital and reserves applies on both resident and nonresident assets and liabilities. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Imports and import payments August 25. The Program of Verification of Imports came into effect, with inspection of imports by the Societe Generate de Surveillance. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1950. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Honduras is the Honduran lempira. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling band The exchange rate of the lempira is determined in foreign exchange auctions. Banks and exchange houses are required to sell all of their daily foreign exchange purchases to the Central Bank of Honduras (CBH). Participants in auctions (banks, exchange houses, and private individuals) bid at a price that may not d i f fer from the base price set by the CBH by more than ±7%. The base exchange rate is adjusted every five auctions by the CBH in ac- cordance with the inflation d ifferen t ial between Honduras and its main trading partners and the exchange rates of its main trading partners' currencies vis-a-vis the dollar. The amount of foreign exchange offered at each auction must be at least 60% of the CBH's purchase of foreign exchange from its agents. The minimum amount of foreign exchange to be offered and the base price are announced before the auction. Individuals wishing to purchase for- eign exchange must make offers in lempiras for amounts ranging between $5,000 and $300,000 or the equivalent. Foreign exchange agents may make purchases for their own accounts to meet private demands of less than the equivalent of $5,000; the maximum amount of foreign exchange that may be purchased for this purpose is $50,000 or its equivalent for commercial banks and $15,000 for foreign exchange houses. Foreign ex- change agents may charge up to 1.5% commission on sales to the public of less than $5,000 or its equivalent and up to 1.2% for larger sales. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Yes. All payment obligations to be made in Honduras must be settled in lempiras, except those contracted and documented in a foreign currency. The Clearing and Credit Reciprocal Agreement between Honduras and Costa Rica, El Salvador, and Guatemala functioned until 1995. Regional arrangements Honduras is a member of the CACM. Trade transactions with the rest of Central America may be carried out in local currencies or in dollars. Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. No. 412 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 413 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks must hold these deposits in (1) foreign currency notes in their vaults; (2) deposits at the CBH; (3) special accounts at correspondent banks abroad; (4) investments in high- liquidity foreign instruments; or (5) export or import financing instruments. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Banks may hold accounts with correspondent banks in dollars, euros, and, effective July 25, 2003, Swiss francs, yen, and pounds sterling. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks must hold these deposits in (1) foreign currency notes in their vaults; (2) deposits at the CBH; (3) special accounts at correspondent banks abroad; (4) investments in high- liquidity foreign instruments; or (5) export or import f inanc ing instruments. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. The tariff rates are zero for capital goods and raw materials; 5-10% for intermediate prod- ucts; and 15% for f in ished goods with some exceptions (e.g., beef, cigarettes, fertilizers, and medicines). The tariff rate on goods produced in the CACM area is zero. There are industrial and agri- cultural processing zones that benefit from tariff exemptions. The tourism industry also benefits from temporary tariff exemptions. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 414 HONDURAS Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes All export earnings, except those from trade with other Central American countries, must be surrendered to banks or exchange houses within a period of 20 to 85 days. Commercial banks and exchange houses are required to sell all purchased foreign exchange to the CBH. Exporters are allowed to retain up to 30% of their foreign exchange proceeds to finance their own imports, as well as to pay for their authorized external obligations. No. Yes. Yes. Licenses are not required, but exports must be registered for statistical purposes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no controls on these payments, but all buyers of foreign exchange are required to f i ll out a form for statistical purposes. There are no limits on the amount purchased. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchases of capital shares in existing domestic firms are permitted with the exception of industries that produce defense-related or hazardous materials. Foreign mutual fund companies and similar financial institutions must have permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents All public sector foreign borrowing must be approved by the congress. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Lending by commercial banks to nonresidents requires CBH authorization. External borrowing by a commercial bank is limited to three times the amount of its capital and reserves. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 415 Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Lending by commercial banks to nonresidents requires CBH authorization. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Investments are permitted in all sectors, with the exception of defense-related industries, and small-scale and commercial industries. Investments in industries producing hazardous materials require prior approval. All foreign investments must be registered with the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents There are location and size limitations. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing by a commercial bank is limited to three times the amount of its capital and reserves. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange CBH authorization is required. Financial institutions may lend up to 50% of their foreign exchange deposits domestically in foreign exchange. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Banks, nonbank financial institutions, and savings and loan associations are subject to a nonremunerated reserve requirement of 12% on all deposits denominated in domestic or foreign currency. Liquid asset requirements Financial institutions are required to deposit 38% of their liquid assets in a foreign bank. Credit controls Up to 50% of funds from foreign exchange deposits may be lent for export-related activities, and up to 15% of this amount may be lent for other purposes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Resident accounts July 25. Banks were authorized to hold accounts with correspondent banks in Swiss francs, yen, and pounds sterling. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position as of January 31, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 1, 1996. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Hungary is the Hungarian forint. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative The Hungarian forint trades against the euro within a band of ±15% around the central parity, which is fixed to the euro at Ft 282.36 per €1, effective June 4, 2003 (previously, Ft 276.10-per €1). No. No. All banks may engage in forward transactions at exchange rates that are negotiated freely between the banks and their customers. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. There is an agreement with Ecuador, under which outstanding balances are settled every 90 days. On June 12, 2003, a similar arrangement with Brazil was terminated. Administration of control No. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Hungary ma in ta ins payment restrictions against Iraq and Libya. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Imports and exports of more than Ft 1 million or its equivalent in foreign currency must be declared. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 416 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 417 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are required for a number of products, including imports destined for the settle- ment of outstanding balances in transferable or clearing rubles. About 95% of Hungarian imports are fu l ly liberalized. Yes. Licenses are required for products falling under the global quota on consumer goods. Other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Goods for personal use brought in by returning Hungarian travelers are subject to a general import duty of 15%, based on the actual invoice price with a duty-free allowance of Ft 30,000. Residents, if they are employees of a domestic agency and if they are stationed abroad for more than one year, may import, free of customs duty, goods for personal use up to a value equivalent to 40% of their earnings. Goods imported into Hungary are subject to customs duties in accordance with established and published tariffs. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Yes. Exports of items on the negative list require a license. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 418 HUNGARY Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents No. No. No. No. No. No. Real estate investments by insurance companies must be localized in Hungary. When Hun- gary accedes to the EU, such investments must be localized in EU countries. Mandatory and voluntary pension funds may only invest in real estate localized in the EEA. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits Financial institutions must report monthly all foreign borrowing to the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) for statistical purposes. Lending is allowed within the following rules: (1) a bank may not have an aggregate lend- ing with an individual borrower of more than 25% of its adjusted capital; and (2) country risk rules prescribe the placement of specific reserves against possible losses on credits extended to problem countries, the list of which is based on the assessment of the NBH and published by the MOF. Medium- and long-term lending to nonresidents from OECD member countries may be effected freely. Nonresident liabilities with a maturity of less than two years (denominated either in forint or foreign currency) are subject to the same 5% reserve requirement as resident liabilities with a maturity of less than two years. Effective January 1, 2004, both resident and non- resident liabilities with maturities of more than two years are exempt from reserve require- ments. Previously, only nonresident liabilities denominated in forint or in foreign exchange with maturities of more than two years were exempt from reserve requirements. Required reserves were remunerated at a rate of interest of 4.75%. On November 1, 2003, the gross open foreign exchange position limit for banks was elimi- nated. Previously, the gross aggregate position was limited to 30% of a bank's adjusted capital. Banks had to maintain the limit on a daily basis, and it applied equally to resident and nonresident assets and liabilities. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 419 Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement June 4. The forint was devalued to Ft 282.36 per €1 from Ft 276.10 per €1. Arrangements for payments and receipts Capital transactions June 12. The bilateral payment agreement with Brazil was terminated. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions November L The gross foreign exchange position limit for banks was abandoned (previ- ously, a limit of 30% of a bank's adjusted capital applied). Changes During 2004 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January L Both resident and nonresident liabilities with maturities of more than two years were exempt from reserve requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position as of December 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 19, 1983. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic krona. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy The external value of the krona is determined freely on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Forward exchange market Forward contracts may be negotiated freely in all currencies. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.r. No. The Ministry of Commerce (MC) has ultimate responsibility for imports and, in consulta- tion with the Central Bank of Iceland (CBI), for capital movements and foreign exchange regulation. The MC implements the control on inward foreign direct investment. The CBI licenses the foreign exchange dealers on a commercial basis and sets the reporting require- ments for statistical purposes. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions In accordance with the UN Security Council Resolutions 1267 (1999), 1333 (2000), and 1390 (2002), restrictions are imposed on financial assets and transactions of Al-Qaida and the Taliban and individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. In accordance with other UN Security Council resolutions, restrictions are imposed on exports of weapons and other military equipment to Serbia and Montenegro. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically All accounts in domestic banks must be identified by name and identification number. Resident Accounts 420 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 421 Held abroad Residents should inform the CBI on the opening of bank accounts abroad. However, this requirement has not been enforced. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.r. n.r. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks must report to the CBI the monthly positions of nonresident accounts. All accounts in domestic banks must be identified by name and identification number. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency All accounts in domestic banks must be identified by name and identification number. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of goods and services are permitted freely, except when international agreements or provisions in special legislation provide otherwise. Negative list Open general licenses Live animals and certain agricultural products require health certificates. Imports by tourists and foreign visitors are duty free within general limits on the total value, as well as on individual merchandise value, and quantitative limits are set on alcohol and tobacco by the customs authorities. Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. State import monopoly Tobacco may be imported only under state trading arrangements. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of military, fisheries, and agricultural products require licenses from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 422 ICELAND Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature The purchase of shares or other equity capital may be affected by laws on foreign invest- ment in Iceland. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Foreign governments and other authorities are prohibited from issuing debt instruments in Iceland unless permitted by the CBI. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign direct investments in Iceland are regulated by a special law on foreign investment: (1) foreign investment is prohibited in the fisheries and primary fish-processing industry because only resident Icelandic citizens or domestically registered entities whose foreign ownership does not exceed 25% may fish within the Icelandic fishing limit or operate primary fish-processing facilities; this limit may be extended to 33% if the foreign investment in domestic entities does not exceed 5% of the total equity; (2) investments by foreign governments and public authorities are prohibited in Iceland; the MC may grant exemptions from this restriction and the restrictions below, which do not apply to residents of the EEA; (3) there are controls on the ownership of, or right to harness, waterfalls and geothermal energy, where restrictions apply to investment in power production and distribution companies; (4) investments in domestic airlines may not exceed 49%; and (5) the above as well as other special laws also stipulate restricted conditions for defining the residency of managers and majority of voting power in holding companies. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The conditions for owning real estate in Iceland are the following: (1) individual owners must have a domicile in Iceland; (2) in the case of unlimited companies, all owners must be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 423 Icelandic citizens; and (3) joint-stock companies must be registered in Iceland, with at least 80% ownership by Icelandic citizens, and all of the members of the board of directors must be Icelandic citizens. Icelandic citizens must control the majority of the voting power at annual meetings. The same conditions apply if the real estate is to be leased for more than three years or if the lease agreement cannot be terminated with less than one year's notice. However, a company that is granted an operating license in Iceland may acquire real estate for its own use as long as the license does not carry with it the right to exploit natural re- sources. Citizens of the EEA and other foreign citizens who have been domiciled in Iceland for at least five years are exempted from these restrictions. The Minister of Justice may grant others exemption from these requirements. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits The CBI regulates the net foreign exchange position of the banks. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Portfolio investments of pension funds are restricted to listed securities in organized mar- kets within OECD countries or in other markets approved by the Financial Supervisory Authority. Foreign exchange exposure of pension funds is limited to 50% of their total assets. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position as of February 29, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 20, 1994. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of India is the Indian rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The exchange rate of the rupee is determined in the interbank market. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which intervenes periodically in the interbank market, purchases and sells spot and forward dollars from and to authorized dealers (ADs) in the interbank market at the market exchange rate. No. No. ADs are allowed to deal forward in any permitted currency. The RBI may enter into swap transactions with ADs, under which it buys or sells spot dollars and sells or buys forward dollars for maturities available in the market. A resident may enter into forward contracts with ADs to hedge against exchange risks. Effective December 9, 2003, forward contracts of importers and exporters booked and out- standing shall not exceed at any point 50% of the eligible limit (previously, 25%), provided that any amount in excess of 25% of the eligible limit shall be on a deliverable basis only. The eligible limit is defined as the last three years' average of import/export turnover, or the previous year's turnover, whichever is higher. A resident with an underlying contract may enter into a forward contract with an AD to the fu ll extent of the contract. ADs may provide forward exchange cover to foreign institutional investors (FIIs) up to the fu ll extent of their investments in debt instruments and equities. FIIs may hedge the entire market value of their investments in equities. ADs may also provide forward cover not exceeding six months to foreign direct investors after ensuring that the investors have com- pleted all formalities and obtained the necessary approvals for the investment in India. Nonresident Indians (NRIs) may enter into forward contracts with ADs to hedge the amount of dividends due to them or the balances held in their foreign currency nonresident (FCNR) accounts or nonresident external (NRE) accounts. They are also eligible to have forward cover with respect to their investments in portfolio investment schemes. Effective July 7, 2003, ADs may offer basic European forward options to customers who have genuine foreign currency exposures. All conditions applicable for booking, rolling over, and canceling forward contracts are applicable to options contracts. Only one hedge transaction can be booked against a particular exposure or part thereof for a given time period. Options contracts also cannot be used to hedge contingent or derived exposures, with the exception of exposures arising from the submission of tender bids in foreign exchange. Residents with overseas direct investments in equities and loans may hedge against exchange risks. The Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India, Ltd. (ECGCI) provides protection against exchange fluctuation with respect to deferred receivables from the date of a bid up to 15 years after the award of a contract. Exchange cover is offered in Australian dollars, euros, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. For payments specified in other convertible currencies, cover is provided at the discretion of the ECGCI. 424 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control INDIA 425 Arrangements for Payments and Receipts For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: (1) member countries of the ACU (except Bhutan and Nepal) and (2) the external group (all other coun- tries). For the first group, all payments for eligible current international transactions, except payments relating to travel, must be settled through the ACU arrangement. In other cases, payments may be settled in any permitted currency. Export-import transactions financed with loans from international financial institutions are settled outside the ACU mechanism. Trade settlements are made through ACU dollar accounts, which are replenished through the RBI. Payments to countries in the second group may be made in Indian rupees to the account of a resident of any of these countries or in any permitted currency, and receipts from these countries may be obtained in Indian rupees from accounts of a bank situated in any of these countries or in any permitted currency. However, special rules may apply to exports under lines of credit extended by the government of India to the governments of certain foreign countries. India is a member of the ACU. Although Bhutan and Nepal are members of the ACU, trade with Bhutan and Nepal is set- tled outside the ACU mechanism. Subject to permission from the Nepal Rastra Bank, Nepalese residents may import from India against payment in freely convertible currency, in addition to the existing system of payment in Indian rupees; such payments must be ef- fected through the ACU mechanism. Transactions with all other ACU member countries are settled through ACU dollar accounts. Exchange control is administered by the RBI in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) and the general policy established by the government, in consul- tation with the RBI. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to ADs. Import and export licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Director General of Foreign Trade. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Yes. Yes. No. There are no restrictions on internal trade in gold. However, gold mines continue to sell gold to industrial users through the distribution network of the State Bank of India, as well as through market sales. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited. Apart from a few agencies authorized by the government, 13 banks are authorized by the RBI to import gold for sale in the domestic market. The export of personal jewelry by travelers is regulated under the Ministry of Commerce's export and import policy baggage rules. Other rules regarding the export and import of gold are spelled out in the export and import policy. In general, the exportation of rupee notes and coins, except to Bhutan and Nepal, is prohib- ited. Exports of rupee notes to Bhutan or Nepal in denominations higher than Rs 100 are also prohibited. However, resident Indians may take with them Indian currency notes not exceeding Rs 5,000 a person at any one time to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal when going abroad on a temporary visit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 426 Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad INDIA An authorized person (AP) may transfer abroad foreign currency acquired in the normal course of business. Any person may take out foreign exchange obtained from an AP and any unspent foreign currency owned or brought in during a previous visit. Any non-Indian resident person may take out unspent foreign exchange not exceeding the amount brought in (the amount must be declared if it exceeds the equivalent of US$5,000 in banknotes and coins or US$10,000 in banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks). The importation of rupee notes and coins is prohibited. However, any person may bring in rupee notes (other than notes of denominations larger than Rs 100) from Bhutan and Nepal. Indian travelers may bring in up to Rs 5,000 a person if they took out this amount when traveling abroad on a temporary visit. Foreign currency notes may be brought in without limit, provided that the total amount is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of foreign notes, coins, and traveler's checks exceeds US$10,000 or its equivalent and/or if the aggregate value of for- eign currency notes brought in at any one time exceeds US$5,000 or its equivalent. Resident Accounts The accounts of Indians and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals residing in Bhutan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organizations in Bhutan and Nepal, are treated as resident ac- counts. However, residents of Nepal must obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. Approval of the RBI is required for the opening of foreign currency accounts, held both domestically or abroad, except for those covered by general permission granted by the RBI. Exporters may open exchange earners' foreign currency (EEFC) ac- counts. These accounts are to be held only in non-interest bearing accounts, and no credit facility, be it funded or nonftmded, may be made available against the balances. These ac- counts may be used to (1) open offices abroad and meet the expenses of these offices; (2) make investments from the account balance in overseas joint ventures up to the limit of US$100 million or the equivalent without reference to the RBI; and (3) pay all trade-related expenses in foreign exchange. Individuals residing in India may open foreign currency accounts designated as resident foreign currency (RFC) accounts with foreign exchange from pensions or other payments from overseas employers or with other receipts—such as gifts or inheritances —that are permitted under the regulations. The balances held in such accounts may be used freely outside India. Individuals are permitted to maintain resident foreign currency domestic (RFCD) accounts at a licensed bank that is also an AD. These accounts, which are non-interest bearing, may be credited with foreign exchange earned from the following sources: (1) exports of goods or services; (2) gifts or honoria while abroad; (3) legal transactions with nonresidents in India; and (4) remaining from travel abroad. As long as the foreign exchange is acquired by one of these means, there is no overall limit on the account balance. The balance may be used for any purpose permissible under current foreign exchange regulations applicable to residents. These accounts are in addition to existing RFC accounts and the permission to retain up to the equivalent of US$2,000 in foreign banknotes and/or foreign currency trav- eler's checks. Other types of accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Yes. These accounts are permitted and may be used to remit up to the equivalent of US$25,000 a year for permitted current and capital transactions. Specific approval is required for remit- tances in excess of this limit. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 427 Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts FCNR accounts denominated in dollars, euros, Japanese yen, and pounds sterling may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Indian nationality or origin. These accounts may be opened with a minimum maturity of one year and a maximum maturity of three years. Balances may be repatriated at any time without reference to the RBI. ADs are al- lowed to effect transfers of funds between FCNR accounts of different persons maintained with the same AD or other ADs for any purpose, subject to certain conditions. The current FCNR accounts operate in the same manner as the old FCNR accounts, except that the issuing bank (not the RBI) bears the exchange risk. Effective September 16, 2003, overseas corporate bodies (OCBs) are no longer allowed to open new FCNR accounts or to renew existing deposits; OCBs are defined as companies, partnerships, societies, or other corpo- rate bodies at least 60% owned, directly or indirectly, by NRIs and include overseas trusts in which at least 60% of the interest of the beneficiary is irrevocably held by such persons. Foreign embassies, missions, and diplomats are permitted to open foreign currency ac- counts with ADs without the approval of the RBI, subject to certain conditions. Accounts related to all foreign countries other than Bhutan and Nepal are treated as nonresident accounts. Nonresident ordinary rupee (NOR) accounts of individuals or firms may be credited with (1) the proceeds of remittances received in any permitted currency from abroad through normal banking channels, balances sold by the account holder in any permitted currency during a visit to India, or balances transferred from rupee accounts of nonresident banks; and (2) legitimate dues paid in rupees by the account holder in India. ADs may debit NOR accounts for all local disbursements, including investments in India that are covered by RBI regulations. ADs may permit transfers abroad of current income earned within India by the account holder, once the applicable taxes have been paid. ADs may also allow remittances of up to the equivalent of US$1 million from current balances or sales of assets, subject to certain conditions and payment of applicable taxes. Nonresident external rupee (NRER) accounts may be opened for NRIs and nonresident persons of Indian origin (PIOs). In addition to ADs holding licenses under the FEMA, some state cooperative banks, certain urban cooperative banks, and scheduled commercial banks not holding such licenses have also been permitted by the RBI to open and maintain nonresident rupee accounts, subject to certain conditions. Such accounts may also be opened for eligible persons during temporary visits to India against the tender of foreign currency traveler's checks, notes, or coins. They may be credited with (1) new funds remit- ted through banking channels from any country; (2) the proceeds of foreign currency trav- eler's checks, personal checks, and drafts in the name of the account holder; (3) foreign currency notes and coins tendered by the account holder while in India; (4) income from authorized investments; and (5) the transfer of funds from other NRER or FCNR accounts. ADs are allowed to transfer funds freely between NRER accounts of different persons held with the same AD or d ifferent ADs. The accounts may be debited (1) for disbursement in India and for transfers abroad; and (2) for any other transaction if covered under general or special permission granted by the RBI. Investments in shares of Indian companies, in part- nership firms and the like, or in immovable property may be made, provided that such an investment or purchase is covered by FEMA regulations or that general or special permis- sion has been granted by the RBI. Interest on deposits in NRER accounts in any bank in India is exempt from personal income tax, although juridical persons are not entitled to this exemption. Interest earnings are transferable. The balances held in such accounts by natural persons are exempt from wealth tax; gifts to close relatives in India from the balances in these accounts are exempt from gift tax. Diplomatic missions and their personnel and family members may open rupee accounts with ADs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 428 INDIA NRIs and PIOs are permitted to maintain NRER accounts. Effective September 16, 2003, OCRs are no longer allowed to open new NRER accounts. Balances in such accounts are freely convertible into foreign currency. Opening such accounts in the name of Pakistan or Bangladesh nationals, even if they are of Indian origin, requires RBI approval. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. n.a. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Effective August 18, 2003, documentary evidence is required for foreign exchange pay- ments for imports exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000 (previously, US$25,000). Fur- ther, ADs are required to notify the RBI regarding transactions exceeding US$100,000. If the amount of the transaction is less than US$1 m i l l ion, the AD is permitted to accept either (1) a copy of the b i ll of entry for home consumption from exchange control or (2) a certifi- cate from the chief executive officer or an auditor of the importing company stating that the goods for which payments have been made were imported into India; further, the importing company must be listed on a stock exchange in India and have a net worth of at least Rs 1 billion on the date of the last audited balance sheet or be an entity of the government of India or a public sector company. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of capital goods have been liberalized. Under the Duty Free Credit Entitlement Certificate and Export Promotion Capital Goods schemes, service providers and hotels may import duty-free 10% and 5%, respectively, of foreign exchange earned. Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements The importation of the following is restricted: (1) certain specified precious, semiprecious, and other stones; (2) safety, security, and related items; (3) seeds, plants, and animals; (4) insecticides and pesticides; (5) drugs and Pharmaceuticals; (6) chemicals and allied items relating to the small-scale sector; and (7) some consumer goods and certain other items. The importation of the following is prohibited: tallow, fat and/or oils rendered or unren- dered of any animal origin, animal rennet, wild animals (including their parts and prod- ucts), and ivory. Exports and imports of arms and related materials to and from Iraq are also prohibited. On February 13, 2003, a duty was imposed on imports of nonbrass metal f lash l igh ts from China. Effective January 9, 2004, the peak import tariff rate on nonagricultural goods was reduced to 20% from 25% and the special additional customs duty of 4% was abolished. Effective January 28, 2004, imports of all kinds of capital goods, inc lud ing off ice and pro- fessional equipment, are allowed under the Duty Free Entitlement Scheme. The importation of certain specified types of petroleum products, fertilizers, edible oils, seeds, and cereals is channeled through the state trading enterprises, i.e., Indian Oil Corpo- ration Ltd., Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation of India Ltd., State Trading Corpora- tion of India Ltd., and the Food Corporation of India. Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated within six months of shipment unless otherwise specified by the RBI. Indian-owned warehouses abroad established with the permission of the RBI are allowed a period of up to 15 months to realize export proceeds. Exporters are required to obtain permission from an AD if the export proceeds are not realized within the prescribed period. The RBI also administers a scheme under which engineering goods (capital goods and consumer durables) may be exported under deferred credit arrangements, so that the f u ll export value is paid in installments over more than six months. Exporters of certain bu lk items, exports to Latin American countries, and status holder exporters may realize export proceeds within 365 days from the date of shipment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Surrender requirements INDIA 429 Exporters are permitted to retain up to 50% of foreign exchange receipts in foreign cur- rency accounts with banks in India. In the case of 100% export-oriented businesses, those in export-processing zones, and those in hardware/software technology parks, up to 70% of foreign exchange receipts may be retained. Corporate exporters are permitted to extend trade-related advances to their importer clients out of their EEFC accounts without obtain- ing RBI approval. ADs are permitted to allow utilization of funds held in EEFC accounts for making payments for current and capital transactions that are permissible under FEMA regulations. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses Licenses are required for exports of a few goods, e.g., mineral ores (iron, chrome, and manganese), chemicals under the Montreal Protocol on the substances that are depleting the ozone layer, agricultural items (certain seeds, sandalwood, chips of specified variety and sizes, value-added products of red sandalwood, fodder, and chemical fertilizer) and bio- logical material such as human blood samples. Licenses are also required for exports of goods that are covered by international treaty obligations regarding security and the envi- ronment. Effective January 28, 2004, the ceiling on the export of gifts abroad is Rs 500,000 a year (previously, Rs 100,000 a year). Export taxes Other export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Residents may obtain foreign exchange for bona fide current account transactions with some exceptions, such as 100 items related to public sector expenses and other items listed in this section. Investment-related payments Remittances are allowed, subject to certain conditions, provided that all current taxes and other liabilities have been cleared. The RBI allows branches of foreign companies operating in India to remit profits to their head offices without the prior approval of the RBI. Foreign banks do not need RBI ap- proval for remittances of profits (net of taxes) earned in the normal course of business with their head offices. Remittances are subject to compliance with the Banking Act and RBI directives. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The limits are the equivalent of US$10,000 a year and US$25,000 a trip for personal and business travel, respectively, regardless of the period of stay. Travel-related expenses ex- ceeding the limits require RBI approval. No such limits apply on payments made with an international credit card (ICC). Unused amounts up to the equivalent of US$2,000 may be retained indefinitely. Any additional amounts must be surrendered or credited to the per- son's RFCD account within 90 or 180 days for cash and traveler's checks, respectively. Foreign exchange is not made available for travel to Bhutan or Nepal or for transactions with residents of these countries. Indicative limits/bona fide test ADs may release foreign exchange in certain cases beyond indicative limits. Personal payments Quantitative limits Thirteen types of personal expenses are subject to limits, and amounts exceeding these limits require RBI approval. ADs have the power to release foreign exchange for overseas medical costs, subject to documentary requirements. Effective July 17, 2003, ADs may remit abroad up the equiva- lent of US$100,000 a year for various purposes, such as employment abroad, emigration, maintenance of close relatives abroad (previously, the limit on these transfers was US$5,000 a year), or education abroad (previously, the limit on these transfers was based ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 430 INDIA on cost estimates from the university or institution abroad), and students may transfer up to US$ 1 million from personal accounts maintained with an AD. ADs may allow remittances of up to the equivalent of US$1 million a year for any purpose, subject to payment of appropriate taxes. Further, if the funds are the proceeds from the sale of immovable property, the property must have been owned for at least 10 years. Effective July 17, 2003, ADs may effect remittances of up to US$1 million a project toward consultancy services procured abroad, subject to documentary requirements. Foreign workers are permitted to remit their entire net salaries to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, to support their families, and for other expenses, subject to the pay- ment of applicable taxes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Persons going abroad for any purpose (except for employment or emigration) may use ICCs for all purposes, including for the purchase of articles for personal use, subject to the limits established by the card provider. The basic travel quota may also be obtained through the use of credit cards. The use of ICCs is allowed for imports of books, computer software, and other items through the Internet, with the exception of prohibited items, such as lottery tickets, sweepstakes participation, banned or prohibited subscriptions, and payments for call-back services. Debit cards may be used for any purpose for which foreign exchange may be purchased from an AD. Other payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Up to 50% of receipts may be retained in foreign currency accounts with banks in India. In the case of export-oriented units and units created in export-processing zones, software technology parks, or electronic maintenance technology parks, 100% of receipts may be retained in these accounts. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents FIIs are permitted to make investments in all securities traded on the primary and secon- dary markets, including equities and other securities, and in instruments of companies listed or to be listed on the stock exchanges in India. FIIs are also allowed to invest in dated gov- ernment securities, either on behalf of clients or by using proprietary funds. FIIs are re- quired to register with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). For FIIs regis- tered for investments in equities, investments in equity and debt instruments must be in a ratio of 70% to 30%. However, FIIs' sub-accounts may set up separately 100% debt funds that may invest their portfolio in debt instruments within the overall approved debt ceiling. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents INDIA 431 Portfolio investments in the primary or secondary markets are subject to a ceiling of 10% of the issued share capital for individual FII holdings and 24% (this ceiling may be raised to sectoral ceilings as applicable, provided the general meeting of the company passes a spe- cial resolution) of issued share capital for the total holdings of all registered FIIs in any one company, with the exception of (1) foreign investments under financial collaboration; and (2) investments through offshore single and regional funds, global depository receipts (GDRs), and convertibles in the euromarket. Nonresidents may not make portfolio invest- ments in companies engaged in print media. Under the portfolio investment scheme, the individual ceiling for NRIs and PIOs is 5% of the paid-up capital, and their aggregate investment ceilings are 10% of the paid-up share capital of a company. In the case of companies listed on the stock exchange, the ceiling may be raised to 24% of paid-up capital by the passage of a special resolution at the general meeting. Effective September 16, 2003, OCBs are prohibited from making any new pur- chases under the scheme. Effective January 27, 2003, Sri Lankan companies are allowed to issue securities in India (with the signing of an economic cooperation agreement between India and Sri Lanka). Payments and subscriptions for these are effected through Indian depository receipts. Pre- viously, nonresidents were not permitted to issue securities in the local market. In the case of securities of Indian companies held by nonresidents, transfers to a resident, other than by sale on the stock exchange, require RBI permission. Transfers of sale proceeds are permit- ted, subject to tax, provided no controls were imposed on the repatriation of sale proceeds while approving the original investment. Transfers between two nonresidents do not require permission from the RBI, except where the recipient has a financial or technical collabora- tion in the same or a related field as the company whose shares are being transferred. Transfers from NRIs and PIOs to nonresidents other than NRIs and PIOs require RBI approval. RBI permission is required for acquiring, holding, or disposing of any foreign security. In the case of a sale of foreign securities, the repatriation of sale proceeds to India is required, unless otherwise specified. General permission has been granted by the RBI to residents to hold, own, transfer, or invest in foreign currency or foreign securities outside India if the currency or security was acquired or held by the person while residing outside India, was received through an inheritance or as a gift from a person who was residing outside India, or was acquired during the pre-zero period (i.e., prior to July 8, 1947). ADs are authorized to approve remittances by resident employees of foreign companies and their joint ventures or wholly owned subsidiaries, in which the foreign company holds not less than 51% equity for acquisitions of shares of the foreign company under an employee stock option scheme, subject to certain conditions. Similarly, applications are considered from employees of Indian software companies for remittances of the equivalent of US$10,000 in a five-year period for acquiring shares in overseas jo int ventures or wholly owned subsidiaries of In- dian companies, subject to certain conditions. The RBI also permits employees of Indian software companies to purchase foreign securities under the American depository receipt (ADR) and GDR linked stock option schemes, provided that the consideration for purchase does not exceed the equivalent of US$50,000 in a five-year period. Effective February 4, 2004, residents were allowed to purchase these instruments up to the equivalent of US$25,000 without RBI approval, under the Liberalized Remittance Scheme. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing purchases abroad by residents apply. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Certain restrictions apply on Indian depository receipts. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Convertible bonds in foreign currency may be issued up to the equivalent of US$50 million a fiscal year through the automatic route without RBI approval. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents NRIs are allowed to invest in money market mutual funds floated by commercial banks and public or private sector financial institutions with authorization from the SEBI on a nonre- patriation basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 432 INDIA Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require RBI approval. Purchase abroad by residents Effective February 4, 2004, residents were allowed to purchase these instruments up to the equivalent of US$25,000 without RBI approval, under the Liberalized Remittance Scheme. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. On collective investment securities Resident companies require general or specific permission from the RBI to issue securities to NRIs. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions, when made by FIIs, do not require the prior approval of the RBI. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuing of collective investment securities by nonresidents on local markets in India is permitted subject to certain conditions. Purchase abroad by residents Resident individuals and companies may make equity investments in companies listed abroad on recognized stock exchanges that have at least a 10% holding in an Indian com- pany listed on a recognized stock exchange in India. Resident companies may not invest more than 25% of their net assets in this way. Effective January 13, 2003, mutual funds in India may also make investments in the same set of companies listed abroad up to a cap of US$1 billion (previously, US$500 million), subject to approval from the SEBI. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents ADs may offer forward contracts to nonresidents outside India to hedge on investments that were made in India after January 1, 1993. FIIs may hedge the market value of their entire investment in equity or debt. NRIs may hedge the dividend due to them, balances held in FCNR and NRE accounts, and portfolio investments. Effective September 1, 2003, FIIs and NRIs may trade in all exchange-traded derivative contracts, including interest rate derivatives, approved by the SEBI, subject to prescribed limits. While FIIs can trade in derivatives with repatriation benefits, NRIs may also invest in these contracts using rupee funds held in India on a nonrepatriable basis, subject to the limits prescribed by the SEBI. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents ADs are allowed to purchase hedge instruments for corporate clients and for their own asset/liability management. Exporters and importers are also allowed to hedge price expo- sures on commodities for this purpose. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require the permission of the RBI. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents All corporations except banks, nonbank finance companies, and other f inanc ial institutions are eligible to undertake external borrowing. A commercial credit of up to six months is allowed for exports on documents-against- acceptance terms. Contracts for exports involving payments to be realized beyond the nor- mal period of six months are treated as deferred payment exports. Such exports are permit- ted, depending on the credit terms offered, the commodity to be exported, and other related considerations. This applies for turnkey, construction, and service contracts undertaken by Indian exporters on credit terms. Under the Buyer's Credit Scheme, the Export-Import Bank (EXIM Bank) offers credits to foreign buyers in connection with the export of capital goods and turnkey projects in India in participation with commercial banks in India. The EXIM Bank considers the creditworthiness, standing, and financial position of the overseas borrower; the economic viability of the project; the standing of the Indian exporter; etc. An Indian exporter may lend without restriction from the funds held in an EEFC account for trade-related purposes to an overseas importing customer against a bank guarantee. Other transactions require prior permission from the RBI. To residents from nonresidents Trade credits of up to one year for noncapital goods and up to three years for capital goods are freely ava i lab le up to $20 m i l l ion a transaction without RBI approval. Trade credits ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 433 (buyer's credits, supplier credits, or lines of firm or company credit) for imports of goods and services for a period of less than three years are considered by the RBI on terms and conditions relative to terms offered in overseas markets. Financial credits An Indian entity may lend in foreign exchange to its wholly owned subsidiary abroad. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Effective March 1, 2003, prepayments of loans to residents from nonresidents through ADs are permitted without any limit (previously, the limit was the equivalent of US$100 mil- lion) under the automatic route. Effective February 1, 2004, all eligible legal entities (ex- cept banks, financial institutions, housing finance companies, and nonbank financial com- panies (NBFCs) may borrow abroad up to the equivalent of US$20 million for loans of three to five years of average maturity and up to US$500 m i l l ion for loans of more than five years' average maturity under the automatic route without RBI approval. The auto- matic route is available to borrowers who have complied with all relevant government and RBI acts, guidelines, and regulations while accessing external borrowing. Previously, all such borrowing was subject to a US$50 million ceiling and, effective November 14, 2003, borrowing in excess of this amount was permitted only for financing equipment imports and infrastructure projects. Also, effective February 1, 2004, borrowing with an average maturity of three to five years is subject to a maximum spread of 200 basis points over the six-month LIBOR of the currency in which the loans are raised or the applicable bench- mark^), and borrowing with more than five years of average maturity is subject to a maxi- mum spread of 350 basis points. Previously, all borrowing was subject to maximum spreads over six-month LIBOR (150 basis points for normal projects, 250 basis points for infrastructure projects, and 300 basis points for other long-term projects). ADs are allowed to give performance bonds or guarantees in favor of overseas buyers in connection with bona fide exports from India, as well as guarantees in the ordinary course of business with respect to missing documents, authenticity of signatures, and for other similar purposes. The RBI has granted general permission to agents of foreign shipping and airline companies to give guarantees on behalf of their companies with respect to any debt or other obligation —such as income tax, customs, or postage—to any central or state gov- ernment agency in India. ADs, financial institutions, and NBFCs are not permitted to issue a guarantee standby letter of credit, or a letter of credit on behalf of their constituents, to access commercial borrow- ings or financial credit. Further, ADs are not permitted to issue the same instruments for trade credit in favor of an overseas lender on behalf of their importer constituents. The RBI has permitted ADs to grant loans to residents against guarantees from nonresi- dents, subject, among other things, to the condition that no direct or indirect payment is made abroad by way of guarantee, commission, or otherwise. Effective January 13, 2004, Indian companies acquiring foreign companies or investing directly abroad in jo int ventures or wholly owned subsidiaries may invest up to 100% (pre- viously, 50%) of their net worth within an overall limit of US$100 million or the equivalent in one f inanc ial year through the automatic route. Companies seeking to invest in financial sector activities abroad must also obtain approval from the regulatory authorities in India and abroad. For the purpose of investing abroad, Indian companies may purchase foreign exchange up to 100% of their net worth as of the date of their last audited balance sheet. Companies may invest 100% of the proceeds of their ADR and GDR issues for acquisition of foreign companies and direct investment in jo int ventures and wholly owned subsidiar- ies. Companies may also invest by way of share swap transactions, subject to prior ap- proval by the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB). This route is not available for investments in Pakistan. With respect to rupee investments in Bhutan and Nepal under the automatic route, the annual limit is equivalent to net worth. Indian corporations and partnership firms may invest in agricultural activity abroad (includ- ing purchase of land directly, rather than through a joint-venture or wholly owned subsidi- ary) within the limit for investment under the automatic route. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 434 INDIA Inward direct investment Any Indian company that has issued ADRs or GDRs may acquire shares of foreign compa- nies engaged in the same area of core activity up to the equivalent of US$100 million or 10 times their annual exports, whichever is higher. Resident employees of foreign companies and their joint ventures that are wholly owned subsidiaries in which the foreign company holds not less than 51% equity may invest under an employee stock option plan without limit, subject to certain conditions. Effective December 12, 2003, local companies making direct investments abroad may hedge the exchange rate risk in the local market by purchasing forward or options contracts from banks against proof of the exposures. Indian companies may issue up to 100% of their stock to nonresidents under the automatic route in most sectors, except for a few that require the approval of the FIPB and for another seven areas, where less than 100% is allowed (private sector banks; insurance, telecommu- nications, and nonretail trading companies, companies that mine coal for captive consump- tion, diamonds and other precious stones, and airports). There are other exclusions, such as industrial licensing and locational policies. Foreign investment is not permitted in retail trade, atomic energy, lotteries, gambling and other betting, housing and real estate, and agriculture (excluding floriculture, horticulture, seed development, animal husbandry, and agro- and allied sector-related services) and plantations (excluding tea). Effective September 16, 2003, OCBs that are unincorporated entities are not allowed to make new investments under the Foreign Direct Investment Scheme, including through the automatic route. Foreign direct investment in nonretail trading companies requires registration with the Min- istry of Commerce and Industry and acquisition of a certificate on a trading company's status as an export, trading, star trading, or super-star trading house before applying to the RBI for remittances or dividends. The automatic route permits foreign investment of up to 51% of the paid-in capital of such Indian companies. Foreign investment in print media requires registration with the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and is subject to the following restrictions: (1) foreign investment in companies engaged in the publication of news or current affairs may not exceed 26% and must be in the form of foreign direct investment; and (2) foreign investment in other print media may not exceed 74% of the paid-up capital of the company, including all foreign direct and indirect investment, NRI and PIO investment, and investment on a repatriation or nonrepatriation basis. Foreign direct investment in the insurance sector requires a license from the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority. Applications for investment in areas that do not fall within the automatic route but that are covered by the foreign investment policy require FIPB approval. Such investments may be approved in accordance with the sector-specific guidelines and sectoral equity ceilings. The Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is the relevant agency for all issues related to foreign direct investment, including approv- als. General permission has also been granted to SEBI-registered foreign venture capital investors to invest in an Indian venture capital undertaking or a venture capital fund. NRIs may use funds derived from new remittances or held in their NRE or FCNR accounts to (1) make portfolio investments with repatriation benefits of up to 5% of the capital, pro- vided that the total holdings of shares and convertible debentures held on either a repatri- able or nonrepatriable basis by all nonresident investors do not exceed 10% (extendable to 24% if the general meeting of the investing company passes a special resolution) of the paid-in capital of the company or of the total paid-in value of each series of convertible debentures issued by the company; (2) invest freely in national savings certificates with fu ll repatriation benefits. Existing joint-venture companies may raise the ratio of foreign equity shares to prescribed percentages of their capital through expansion of their capital base or through preferential allocation of shares to the foreign investor; and (3) invest on a nonre- patriable basis in money market mutual funds (OCBs only), subject to RBI approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 435 Controls on liquidation of direct investment Shares may be sold freely on the stock exchange; however, other sales of shares, securities, or immovable property require approval of the RBI. Repatriation of after-tax sales proceeds is generally permitted, provided no condition of nonrepatriation was imposed when the original investment was approved. Controls on real estate transactions These transactions require the permission of the RBI. Purchase abroad by residents A person resident in India may hold, own, or transfer immovable property outside India, provided that such property was acquired while the person resided outside India or was obtained through an inheritance or as a gift. That person is also free to dispose of such property or acquire new property from the sale proceeds of such property. Residents may buy immovable property abroad using RFC accounts. Effective February 4, 2004, residents may acquire property abroad using a personal remit- tance up to the equivalent of US$25,000. RBI approval is required for Indian companies that have established offices abroad to acquire immovable property abroad for their busi- ness use and for staff residences. Purchase locally by nonresidents NRIs may invest in companies engaged in real estate development (e.g., construction of houses). Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Repatriation of after-tax sales proceeds is permitted up to the amount brought in to pur- chase the property. ADs may allow remittances of up to the equivalent of US$1 million a year —subject to the payment of applicable taxes —for sales of immovable property. Prior to sale, the property must have been held for 10 years. ADs may lend to NRIs in rupees to purchase immovable property, shares for personal busi- ness, or mortgages. Borrowing not exceeding US$250,000 or its equivalent by residents from nonresident close relatives is permitted by the RBI provided the loan is interest-free and is repayable in one year or less. NRIs are permitted to grant loans on a nonrepatriation basis to residents for a period not exceeding three years and with an interest rate not exceeding the bank rate by more than 2%. ADs are allowed to permit remittances of gifts and donations up to the equivalent of US$5,000 a year by residents. Requests for higher amounts are considered by the RBI on a nonrepatriation basis. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Remittances of earnings from sweepstakes, betting, and lotteries are not permitted. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing is subject to the policy on external commercial borrowing formed by the RBI in consultation with the MOF. ADs may avail themselves of loans, overdrafts, and other types of fund-based credit facilities from their overseas branches and correspondents of up to 25% of their unimpaired Tier I capital or the equivalent of US$10 m i l l ion, whichever is higher. Maintenance of accounts abroad There are no controls on ADs ma in ta in ing accounts abroad. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) ADs are free to manage surplus balances in their exchange accounts through overnight placement and investments with their branches or correspondent banks, subject to limits imposed by their respective boards. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 436 INDIA Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Banks may lend to residents to meet foreign exchange requirements toward preshipment credit in foreign currency for financing domestic inputs. Banks may also use their FCNR deposit resources to grant loans to residents. No scheme is in place with respect to these transactions. All rupee and foreign currency deposits are subject to a cash reserve ratio of 4.75% of net demand and time deposit liabilities; ACU funds in U.S. dollars, however, are subject to a minimum ratio of 3% of net demand and time deposit liabilities. Interest rates on FCNR (bank) deposits are subject to a ceiling of LIBOR or the swap rate for the corresponding maturity less 25 basis points, except in the case of yen deposits. All nonresident deposits, in both local and foreign currency, are subject to the same cash reserve requirements and statutory liquidity ratios. The interest rates on NRER deposits with maturities of one to three years opened after April 17, 2004, are subject to a ceiling of LIBOR/swap rates for U.S. dollars of the same maturity. Banks may offer d ifferen t ial interest rates on wholesale rupee deposits equal to or exceeding Rs 1.5 million. The interest rates on NRE savings deposits are subject to a ceil- ing of LIBOR/swap rates for six-month maturity on U.S. dollar deposits. Banks may invest in money market instruments and/or debt instruments held abroad up to the limits approved by their board of directors. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are required to maintain on an ongoing basis Tier I and Tier II capital at 9% of the open position limit approved by the RBI. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. Exchange arrangement Nonresident accounts Changes Dur ing 2003 July 7. ADs were allowed to offer basic European forward options to customers who have genuine foreign currency exposures. December 9. The eligible limit for forward contracts of importers and exporters booked and outstanding was raised to 50% of the previous year's turnover or the last three years' aver- age of import/export turnover, whichever is higher (previously, 25%), provided that any amount in excess of 25% shall be on a deliverable basis only. September 16. OCBs were no longer allowed to open new FCNR or NRER accounts, or to renew deposits already made. Imports and import payments February 13. A duty was imposed on imports of nonbrass metal flashlights from China. August 18. The limit for which documentary evidence is required for foreign exchange payments for imports was increased to the equivalent of US$100,000 from US$25,000. Further, Ads were required to no t ify the RBI regarding transactions exceeding US$100,000. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers July 17. ADs were allowed to remit abroad up to the equivalent of US$100,000 for various purposes, such as employment abroad, emigration, maintenance of close relatives abroad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 437 (previously, the limit on these transfers was US$5,000 a year), or education abroad (previously, the limit on these transfers was based on cost estimates from the university or institution abroad), and students were allowed to transfer up to US$ 1 million from personal accounts maintained with an AD. July 17. ADs were allowed to effect remittances of up to US$1 million a project toward consultancy services procured abroad, subject to documentary requirements. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments January 13. The limit on investments made by mutual funds in India in companies listed abroad was raised to US$1 billion from US$500 million. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on credit operations January 27. Sri Lankan companies were allowed to issue securities in India. Payments and subscriptions for these are effected through Indian depository receipts. September 16. OCBs were no longer allowed to purchase securities under the portfolio investment scheme. September 1. FIIs and NRIs were allowed to trade in all exchange-traded derivative contracts, including interest rate derivatives, approved by the SEBI, subject to prescribed limits. March 1. Prepayments of loans to residents from nonresidents through ADs were permitted without any limit (previously, the limit was up to the equivalent of US$100 million) under the automatic route. November 14. External borrowing in excess of the equivalent of US$50 million was permitted only for financing equipment imports and infrastructure projects. All borrowing was subject to maximum spreads over six-month LIBOR (150 basis points for normal projects, 250 basis points for infrastructure projects, and 300 basis points for other long- term projects). September 16. OCBs that are unincorporated entities were not allowed to make new in- vestments under the Foreign Direct Investment Scheme, including through the automatic route. December 12. Local companies making direct investments abroad were allowed to hedge the exchange rate risk in the local market by purchasing forward or options contracts from banks against proof of the exposures. Changes During 2004 January 9. The peak import tariff rate on nonagricultural goods was reduced to 20% from 25% and the special additional customs duty of 4% was abolished. January 28. Imports of all kinds of capital goods, including office and professional equip- ment, were allowed under the Duty Free Entitlements Scheme. January 28. The ceiling on the export of gifts abroad was raised to Rs 500,000 a year from Rs 100,000 a year. February 4. Under the Liberalized Remittance Scheme, residents were allowed to purchase abroad capital and money market instruments up to the equivalent of US$25,000 without RBI approval. February 1. The ceiling on borrowing through the automatic route was changed to the equivalent of US$20 million for loans of three or five years of average maturity and to US$500 million for loans of more than five years' average maturity. Previously, all such borrowing was subject to a US$50 million ceiling. February 1. Borrowing with an average maturity of three or five years was made subject to a maximum spread of 200 basis points over the six-month LIBOR of the currency in which the loans are being raised or the applicable benchmark(s). Borrowing with more than five years of average maturity was made subject to a maximum spread of 350 basis points. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution _438 INDIA Controls on direct investment Previously, all borrowing was subject to maximum spreads over six-month LIBOR (150 basis points for normal projects, 250 basis points for infrastructure projects, and 300 basis points for other long-term projects). January 13. Indian companies acquiring foreign companies or investing directly in joint ventures or wholly owned subsidiaries may invest up to 100% (previously, 50%) of their net worth within an overall limit of US$100 million or the equivalent in one financial year through the automatic route. Controls on real estate transactions February 4. Residents were allowed to acquire property abroad using a personal remittance up to the equivalent of US$25,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 7, 1988. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian rupiah. The commemorative gold coins are also legal tender but are seldom circulated. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate is determined by supply and demand conditions in the foreign exchange market. In an effort to reduce exchange rate volatility, Bank Indonesia (BI) imposes com- prehensive restrictions on rupiah transactions between onshore banks and residents that limit each bank's forward sale of foreign exchange to nonresidents. No. No. If there is no underlying local investment activity, forward foreign currency contracts offered by domestic banks to nonresidents are limited to $3 million or its equivalent a customer. These restrictions do not apply to investment-related transactions (i.e., equity participation, purchase of securities, and credit provisions). Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Indonesia is a member of the ASEAN. Barter agreements and open accounts There are countertrade arrangements as part of bids for government-sponsored construction or procurement projects whose import component is valued at more than Rp 500 million. Administration of control The Commercial Offshore Loan Team (COLT) has the authority to institute regulations regarding commercial offshore borrowing. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Measures have been taken to freeze the accounts and assets of and prohibit payments to listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions against countries on which the UN has imposed a trade embargo are in effect. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Travelers may take out freely up to Rp 65,000 a person in Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970 and up to Rp 130,000 a person in gold and silver coins issued in October 1974; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of the BI. Gold may be imported freely. Imports are subject to a levy of Rp 25 per $1. 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 440 INDONESIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Domestic currency Travelers are free to take out Indonesian notes and coins up to Rp 100 million a person. For amounts in excess of this limit, prior approval of the BI is required, and a declaration must also be submitted to customs. Travelers are free to bring in Indonesian notes and coins up to Rp 100 million a person. For imports of amounts in excess of this limit, prior approval is required and a declaration must be submitted to customs. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad No checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad These accounts are permitted with some limits. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Nonresident Accounts Yes. Only checking and time deposit accounts are permitted. No checks may be drawn on for- eign currency accounts. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Requirements generally are set by commercial banks on the basis of their assessment. Exporters, however, require banks to guarantee a 100% face value of red-clause LCs and advance payments. Cement/asbestos sheets, dry batteries, steel slabs, low-voltage electric cord, and electric light bulbs are subject to quality control. Domiciliation requirements Yes. Letters of credit LCs may be issued by foreign exchange banks in the form of sight or usance LCs. Effective June 23, 2003, payment settlement under usance LCs and any changes in the due date of payment is based solely on agreement between the parties involved; previously, the settle- ment had to take place within 360 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 441 Import licenses arid other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Imports from countries against which the UN has imposed a trade embargo are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of certain products. Second- hand engines, however, and their parts and other capital goods may be imported by indus- trial firms for their own use or for the reconditioning of their industry, in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MOT). Certain categories of agricul- tural imports, including foodstuffs, beverages, and fruits, may be imported only by regis- tered importers designated by the MOT. The procurement policies of companies approved for the importation of fruit, alcoholic beverages, and chicken are evaluated annually by the government, although explicit quantitative restrictions are not placed on these products. There is a registry of authorized importers that includes only Indonesian nationals, although foreign investors are permitted to import the items required for their own projects. Al- though all imports into Indonesia are subject to licensing requirements, most are classified under the General Importer License. Import taxes and/or tariffs Certain products are granted preferential duties within the framework of the AFTA and the WTO. A 5% tariff applies to imports of capital goods and raw materials. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Import taxes are collected through foreign exchange banks authorized by the MOF. Imports of certain goods remain restricted to approved importers, most of which are state enterprises. Petramina has a monopoly on the importation of lubricating oil and lubricating fats, and Dahana on the importation of ammunition and explosive gelatin. The monopoly rights of approved importers (sole agents) also remain in effect for the importation of cer- tain heavy equipment and motor vehicles, although this right may be transferred to general importers. The importation of trucks is restricted. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Exports with sight LC conditions must be settled not later than 30 days from the date the exports are registered with the foreign exchange bank. Yes. Exports of goods containing imported material that were exempt from import taxes must be examined before shipment. Yes. Exports are prohibited to countries against which the UN has imposed a trade embargo, as are exports to all countries of certain categories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber, brass and copper scrap (except from the island of Irian Jaya), iron scrap, steel scrap, and antiques of cultural value. Exporters are required to obtain trade permits issued by the MOT. Exports of certain domestically produced commodities must have prior MOT authorization in order to meet domestic demand and to encourage domestic processing of certain raw materials. Items affected by such controls include clove seeds, logs, fertilizer, cement, iron for construction reinforcement, automobile tires, paper, asphalt, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat flour, maize, soybeans, rice, copra, olein, raw rattan, meat, and all goods produced from subsidized raw materials. Concern about domestic price stability sometimes leads to the suspension of exports of various items in this category. Manioc may be exported only by approved exporters. Textiles and textile products subject to import quotas in the consumer countries may be exported only by approved textile ex- porters, who may transfer their allocated quotas to other approved exporters through the Commodity Exchange Board. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 442 Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Other export taxes INDONESIA Taxes are collected through foreign exchange banks authorized by the MOF. Export taxes ranging from the equivalent of $250 to $4,800 a cubic meter are applied to sawed and processed timber. Exports of logs are subject to taxes ranging from $500 to $4,800 a cubic meter. Certain processed wood products are not taxed. Certain other products are subject to export taxes ranging from 5% to 30%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Capital Transactions Resident banks are prohibited from conducting the following transactions with nonresi- dents: (1) lending or provision of overdraft in rupiah or foreign currency; (2) placing funds in rupiah with nonresidents, including rupiah transfer to banks abroad; (3) purchase of rupiah-denominated securities issued by nonresidents; (4) interoffice transactions in rupiah; and (5) equity participation in rupiah with nonresidents. Foreign investors are allowed to purchase without limit shares issued by Indonesian com- panies in the Indonesian capital market. There is a limit on the ownership of a joint securi- ties company that is a finance company. Foreign companies are permitted to issue Indonesian depository receipts (IDRs) through custodian banks in Indonesia. IDRs are instruments that facilitate the trading of shares of foreign companies in the Indonesian capital market. Custodian banks in turn issue IDRs based on the shares that the foreign companies have in the custodian bank. No controls apply as long as the shares are not listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange (ISM). If those securities are listed on the ISM, they should comply with the Capital Market Act and with the requirement on the maximum percentage of foreign ownership of shares. However, Indonesian companies do not issue shares but rather American depository receipts in the U.S. capital market and global depository receipts on the London Stock Exchange. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Banks are prohibited from purchasing securities denominated in rupiah issued by nonresidents. Sale or issue abroad by residents Banks are allowed to issue securities on primary capital markets, subject to regulations on offshore loans. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 443 Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing bonds and other debt securities apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds and other debt securities apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Banks require approval from the COLT for issuance of instruments with maturities of over two years or for amounts exceeding the equivalent of $20 million a year a creditor; total issuances, however, should not exceed 30% of a bank's capital. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents No person may purchase more than 1% of any fund. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents There are controls on all transactions in derivatives and instruments. Derivative transac- tions, other than those associated with foreign exchange and interest rates, are prohibited. Exception may be made by the BI for derivative transactions related to stock margins. Banks are obliged to enter into a written agreement with their clients and explain the risks of these transactions and also to submit a weekly report to the BI. Losses from derivative transactions exceeding 10% of each bank's capital must be reported to the BI immediately. Forward and swap sales or option transactions involving selling foreign currency or pur- chasing foreign currency against rupiah by domestic banks to nonresidents are limited to the equivalent of $3 million a bank a customer. These controls do not apply to investment- related transactions (e.g., equity participation, purchase of securities, and credit provisions). Banks are prohibited from maintaining derivative exposure transacted by the bank's own- ers, directors, employees, commissioners, or any other party linked to the bank, as well as from extending credit facilities and overdrafts for the purpose of derivative transactions to the bank's debtors. Resident banks are prohibited from granting credit (including overdrafts in rupiah or for- eign currencies) to nonresidents. Resident entities, especially the nonbank private sector, may borrow from nonresidents; however, they have to submit periodic reports to the BI on their borrowing. The following are subject to approval by the Coordinating Minister of Economy: (1) borrowings related to development projects using nonrecourse, limited recourse, advance payment, trustee bor- rowing, leasing, and similar financing; (2) borrowings related to some development pro- jects; and (3) borrowings related to the government or a state company (including the State Bank of Pertamina), including in the form of government equity participation or guarantee for provision of feedstock supply. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents There are limitations on the granting of credit by banks to nonresidents. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Banks are allowed to provide sureties and guarantees to nonresident entities only under the following conditions: (1) when there is sufficient contraguarantee from bona fide overseas banks (excluding overseas branches of the relevant bank); and (2) when there is a cash deposit valued at 100% of the guarantee granted. Several sectors are controlled: (1) foreign investment companies in infrastructure projects such as seaports; electricity generation, transmission, and distribution for public use; tele- communications; shipping; airlines; potable water supply; public railways; and nuclear electric power generation should be established by way of joint venture between foreign and Indonesian partners, and the share of Indonesian partners should be at least 5% of the total capital issued at the outset of the company; and (2) a foreign investment company may be established as a straight investment, which means that 100% of the shares may be owned by a foreign citizen and/or entities. However, some of the company's shares must be sold to Indonesian citizens and/or entities through direct placement and/or indirectly through the domestic capital market no later than 15 years after the commencement of commercial operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 444 INDONESIA Foreign ownership of direct investments must begin to be divested by the eleventh year of production. For investments above $50 million or its equivalent, divestment of 50% must be completed within 20 years. For smaller investments, the divestment requirement is less stringent. All foreign enterprises are eligible to receive preferential customs duty treatment for im- ports of required raw materials for the first two years of production activity. Raw materials may be imported with no time limit. In addition, an enterprise exporting more than 65% of its production is free to hire foreign experts as needed to meet its export commitments. Income tax holdings for up to eight years are granted to newly established corporations in 22 industrial sectors. Takeovers of nonstrategic operations by foreign investors are permitted without govern- ment approval. Investors are granted the right to repatriate capital, to transfer profits (after settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia), and to make transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia and to depreciation al- lowances. No transfer permit is issued for capital repatriation as long as investment benefits from tax relief are being received; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. Nonresidents are allowed to buy land only with the title status "the right to use land," but since the title to real estate in Indonesia is "the right to build on land," they are not allowed to buy real estate. Nonresidents, however, are permitted to engage in inward direct invest- ment in local real estate. Yes. No. Resident banks are prohibited from conducting the following transactions with nonresi- dents: (1) lending or provision of overdraft in rupiah or foreign currency; (2) placing funds with nonresidents; (3) purchase of rupiah-denominated securities issued by nonresidents; (4) interoffice transactions in rupiah; and (5) equity participation in rupiah with nonresidents. The COLT supervises all foreign commercial loan transactions. Its prior approval is re- quired before any pub l ic enterprise, commercial bank, or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. In addition, the prospective borrowers must obtain COLT approval to borrow from abroad. Banks may receive foreign commercial borrowing with maturities of no more than two years in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of $20 million a creditor on a bilateral basis without prior approval from the BI, but the banks must maintain the total amount of such borrowings at or below a maximum of 30% of their capital. Trade financing, such as the issuance of LCs, red-clause LCs, and supplier's and buyer's credits with maturities not exceeding one year and amounts of less than $20 million, are not con- sidered borrowings requiring approval from the COLT. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks are not allowed to grant loans or financial and commercial credits in either rupiah or foreign exchange to nonresidents. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Banks are permitted to lend locally in foreign exchange. Banks may also purchase locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange, subject to the requirement that the secu- rities must be investment grade and should not be issued by their groups. To do this, banks should take into account other exchange regulations, namely the regulation on net open position aimed at prudential control. This is allowed; however, transactions are limited by open position limits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 445 Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Deposit accounts in foreign exchange are subject to a 3% reserve requirement, while that for accounts in rupiah is 5%. Banks may place their investments only in financial institutions, including businesses that operate in financial services, such as leasing, venture capital, securities underwriting, insur- ance, and clearinghouse settlement institutions. There are limits on the amount that banks may invest in financial institutions. Equity participation of foreign banks in a jo int bank can reach 99%. There is a requirement that foreign legal entities obtain a recommendation from the monetary authorities of their country of origin. Such a recommendation should at least include information that the for- eign legal entity has a good reputation and sound financial ability and has never committed any unethical act in the banking business. At the end of each business day, the total daily consolidated net open position, which cov- ers both on- and off-balance sheet items as well as both onshore and offshore branches, must not exceed 20% of a bank's capital. Banks must submit a weekly report of their daily consolidated net open position to the BI. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Insurance and reinsurance companies licensed in Indonesia are not allowed to invest abroad except for private placement in companies conducting insurance business overseas, such as insurance companies, reinsurance companies, insurance brokers, loss adjusters, etc. Indonesian mutual funds are prohibited from investing abroad. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Liabilities of insurance and reinsurance companies denominated in foreign currency exceeding assets denominated in foreign currency shall not be more than 10% of shareholders' equity. Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Changes During 2003 Imports and import payments June 23. Payment settlement under usance LCs and any changes in the due date of payment was based solely on agreement between the parties involved; previously, the settlement had to take place within 360 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of the Islamic Republic of Iran is the Iranian rial. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy The exchange rate of the rial is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market, but the authorities intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the foreign exchange market. No. LCs opened prior to March 21, 2002, when the exchange rate was unified, are eligible for a subsidy covering the difference between the market exchange rate and the preunification official rate. Forward exchange market No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. The use of foreign exchange for domestic transactions among residents is not permitted except for internationally linked transactions with prior approval of the Central Bank of Iran (CBI). All bilateral payments arrangements have been terminated, and the outstanding credit balances are in the process of being settled. The Islamic Republic of Iran is a member of the ACU. Bimonthly settlements of current transactions with the member countries of the ACU take place in convertible currencies. A negative list of imports and exports is regulated and issued periodically by the Ministry of Commerce (MOC). Foreign exchange may be purchased for the payment of authorized goods and services. All banking, finance, and credit institutions have been instructed to freeze suspected accounts, based on an official list. These measures were taken in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 1267, 1333, and 1373. Yes. No. Authority to trade in gold for monetary purposes is reserved for the Bank of Markazi Jamhouri Islami Iran (BMJII). The exportation of Iranian gold coins for numismatic purposes requires prior BMJII approval. 446 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 447 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Travelers are allowed to export up to Rls 500,000 a person. Travelers are allowed to export up to $5,000 or the equivalent a trip. The import of up to Rls 500,000 a person is permitted. No limit applies to the amount of foreign exchange that foreign travelers may bring into the country, but a customs declaration is required for amounts exceeding the equivalent of $5,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Iranian nationals may open foreign currency-denominated (FCD) accounts both domestically and abroad. Yes. No. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange originating abroad and deposited in these accounts may be transferred abroad without limitations. Yes. Yes. Nonresidents may convert funds in rial accounts into foreign exchange to repatriate their income from contracts and permitted activities. Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Authorized financial institutions may determine at their discretion the amount of advance payments for opening LCs. Preshipment inspection This applies only for commodities subject to minimum standards. Letters of credit Imports through LCs and bills of exchange are permitted. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 448 Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Yes. All importers must obtain import licenses from the relevant ministries (mainly the MOC). Clearance through customs is authorized upon presentation of shipping documents en- dorsed by an authorized bank and a permit issued by the MOC. Certain goods, such as Pharmaceuticals, must be accompanied by a special permit issued by the Ministry of Health, Treatment, and Medical Education. Telecommunication devices require a permit issued by the Ministry of the Post, Telegraph, and Telephone. Some goods on the negative list may be imported under certain conditions with special permits. Imports from Israel are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports are subject to a minimum import tariff of 4%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Letters of credit Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes The export of goods and services through LCs and/or trustee transactions and bills of exchange is permitted. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Invisible payments may be made in excess of limits established by the BMJII from exter- na l ly financed FCD accounts. Freight charges may be transferred through LCs, bills of exchange, money orders (up to the equivalent of $10,000) or cash fund credits. Only Iranian insurance companies may issue insurance policies for the import of goods. Approval is granted for payments of unloading and storage costs and administrative charges on a case-by-case basis. The payment of commissions is not controlled. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The limit is $2,000 or the equivalent a person a trip. Indicative limits/bona fide test Amounts in excess of the limit may be approved by the CBI. Personal payments Quantitative limits Applications for payment of registration fees for participation in research projects must be submitted to the relevant ministry for approval. Allowances are provided on a monthly basis to students on scholarships abroad, approved by the Ministry of Higher Education. All other students abroad may purchase needed amounts of foreign exchange for tuition and boarding upon submission of justification. Individuals who seek medical treatment abroad may obtain a foreign exchange allowance of up to the equivalent of $30,000 on presentation of the diagnosis by an Iranian physician; allowances exceeding this limit may be provided with justification. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Foreign workers are allowed to transfer all of their salaries without limitation upon confirmation by their employers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 449 Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval A limit of the equivalent of $10,000 applies. Payment of consulting or legal fees is permitted with the approval of the Bureau of Legal Services. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Subject to prior approval, nonresidents may invest in instruments traded on the Tehran Stock Exchange. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. On money market instruments The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. Controls on credit operations Controls apply to all credit operations and all transactions in securities, guarantees, and f inanc ial backup facilities. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment If the investment took place in accordance with the Law on Attraction and Protection of Foreign Capital Investment, controls are administered by the Organization for Investment and Economic and Technical Assistance of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. The repatriation of capital is guaranteed, with the approval of the Organization for Invest- ment and Economic and Technical Assistance of the Ministry of Economic Affa irs and Finance and the BMJII. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 450 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Yes. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi dinar. Effective October 15, 2003, new banknotes were introduced, replacing the "Saddam dinars" at par and the Swiss dinars at a rate of 150 Swiss dinars per 1 new Iraqi dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Effective October 4, 2003, the exchange rate of the dinar is determined in the foreign exchange market. Auctions are held daily, and eligible bidders may buy and sell foreign exchange at freely determined rates. All final transactions are allocated at a single settlement price. Prior to 2003, the Iraqi dinar was pegged to the dollar, the intervention currency. In practice, however, state banks are allowed to transact at the prevailing market rate, effectively legalizing the parallel market rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies or in Iraqi dinars from a nonresident account, provided that the funds in the account were obtained originally through credits in any one of the listed currencies. Payments to and receipts from Israel are prohibited. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents and nonresidents may bring into Iraq, free of customs duty, worked and un- worked gold, regardless of its weight, provided that they declare it upon importation. Resi- dents may take out with them worked gold not exceeding five grams a person, subject to declaration; such gold may be brought back into the country on their return. Nonresident Iraqis are allowed to take out worked gold that they brought with them for personal use. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The maximum amount allowed is ID 5. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 452 On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency IRAQ Amounts up to ID 1,000 are allowed. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israeli cur- rency), in unlimited amounts, provided that they declare the funds on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Iraqis and resident nationals of other Arab countries are allowed to open foreign currency accounts at the commercial banks and to use the balances in these accounts with- out restriction, provided the accounts have been credited with foreign banknotes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Iraqis and nonresident nationals of other Arab countries are allowed to open foreign currency accounts at the commercial banks and to use the balances in these ac- counts without restriction, provided the accounts have been credited with foreign bank- notes. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which involve current payment transactions, and special nonresident accounts, which involve capital transfer transactions. Balances on these accounts and any applicable interest are freely transferable abroad in foreign currencies, provided that the funds had been deposited with licensed dealers within three months of transfer. Effective October 15, 2003, Iraqi nationals residing abroad (or their legal representatives) may withdraw in fu ll the balances held in their nonresident accounts (previously, the limit was up to the equivalent of ID 100,000 a year in three installments) to cover personal expenses in their country of residence. For all other cases, approval is required. Approval required Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports and Import Payments Yes. No. Yes. Imports of some commodities on a protected list are, in principle, prohibited from all sources. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 453^ Import taxes and/or tar iffs To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5% is levied on imports of capital goods, and a tax of 0.75% is levied on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a customs surcharge. Foreign companies undertaking development projects in Iraq are exempt from all import duties and domestic taxes accruing from the implementation of these projects, including income taxes due on the earnings of their non- Iraqi workers. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds Yes. No. n.a. All exports to Israel and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The Ministry of Trade may prohibit the exportation of any commodity when supply falls short of domestic demand. All exports are licensed freely through the General Company for Ex- hibitions and Trading Services. Export taxes n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All payments for invisibles require permission. Trade-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Information is available only for the payment of freight and insurance. Foreign exchange is not granted to merchants to purchase insurance abroad for their exports. Yes. The basic allowance for travel to Arab countries, Cyprus, Greece, and Turkey is the equiva- lent of ID 300 a person a trip for travelers 18 years of age or over (ID 50 for persons under 18 years); the basic allowance for other countries is ID 500 a person a trip for travelers 18 years of age or over (ID 250 for persons under 18 years). Information is available only for payment of medical and study abroad costs. Yes. Students abroad are allocated a fixed amount in Iraqi dinars to be transferred to the country of their residence, except for certain countries, such as India; the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the FSU; and countries in North Africa, where students are paid a fixed amount in dollars. Certain banks are permitted to transfer salaries of teachers who are nationals of Arab coun- tries employed by the Ministry of Higher Education, and of scientific researchers and medical doctors, in accordance with the terms of their contracts. Yes. Certain nonresident private sector workers who have contracts with public institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts provided for in those contracts. Those not em- ployed under contracts may transfer abroad a monthly amount equivalent to ID 10 a person if not insured and ID 20 a person if insured and working in the private sector. Skilled non- contractual workers employed in the nationalized sector by the government are entitled to ID 40 a person a month. Persons under 16 years or over 55 years of age, however, are not allowed to transfer their earnings abroad. Other payments Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 454 IRAQ Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign exchange receipts in excess of the equivalent of ID 100 must be surrendered to a licensed dealer within three months. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Most capital transactions abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreign nationals, require prior approval from the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Controls apply on all these transactions. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. All investments abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreign nationals, require prior approval. No foreign (defined as non-Arab) participation is allowed in the capital of private sector companies, but citizens of other Arab countries may participate with Iraqis in projects in the industrial, agricultural, and tourism sectors; participation is encouraged by the Arab Investment Law. The law permits (1) Iraqi investors to hold up to 49% of an enterprise, provided that their contribution and profits are paid in Iraqi dinars and that the minimum capital of the enterprise is the equivalent of ID 0.5 million; (2) Arab investors to transfer annually up to 100% of the profits distributed to them, but not exceeding 20% of their paid- in capital; and (3) nationals of Arab countries to bring capital into Iraq in Iraqi currency for industrial and agricultural investments. Arab investors are allowed to transfer capital in a convertible currency through a licensed bank or physical assets that will be used in the enterprises they are planning to establish, provided that used machinery and equipment have at least one-half of their productive life left. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 455 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. n.a. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement October 4. The exchange rate of the dinar is determined in the foreign exchange market. October 15. New banknotes were introduced, replacing the "Saddam dinars" at par and the Swiss dinars at a rate of 150 Swiss dinars per 1 new Iraqi dinar. Nonresident accounts October 15. Iraqi nationals residing abroad (or their legal representatives) were allowed to withdraw in fu ll the balances held in their nonresident accounts to cover personal expenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position as of December 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Ireland is the euro. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Ireland participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. The ECB may intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks are free to provide forward exchange facilities. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, cer- tain restrictions are maintained on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions with respect to the former government of Iraq, Myanmar, certain indi- viduals associated with the previous government of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe. In accordance with EU Regulation No. 147/2003, effective January 27, 2003, financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia are prohibited. Restrictions also apply on transfers and transactions with respect to the Taliban and indi- viduals and organizations associated with terrorism. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 456 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND 457 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Blocked accounts Accounts may be frozen in accordance with the relevant EU regulations. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Licenses with quotas For reasons of national policy, imports of certain goods (e.g., specified drugs, explosives, and firearms and ammunition) are prohibited without special licenses. Imports of certain goods (including textiles, steel, footwear, and ceramic products) originat- ing in certain non-EU countries are subject to either quantitative restrictions or surveillance measures. Imports from non-EU countries of products covered by the CAP are subject to a system of access quotas. Import taxes and/or tariffs The EU system of customs duties applies to imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Exports of controlled military and dual-use goods to both EU and non-EU countries may require export licenses. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 458 IRELAND Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital transactions apply in accordance with the EU regulations. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. No. Investment by foreign-controlled enterprises does not require authorization, except for a very limited number of sectors that are subject to special conditions. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Persons, individuals, and companies whose principal place of residence or registered office is outside the territory of the EU/EEA must apply to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Rural Development through its Land Services Division for permission to purchase land. Such permission is rarely withheld. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. Financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia were prohibited. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 21, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Israel is the new Israeli sheqel. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling band The exchange rate of the new sheqel is managed against a basket of currencies comprising the dollar, the euro, the pound sterling, and the yen. The market exchange rate fluctuates within a crawling band in response to market forces. The upper and lower limits of the band, which are adjusted daily, were originally derived to reflect the annual difference between the domestic inflation target and the projected inflation of the main trading partners. In the past few years, however, the practice has changed, such that only the slope of the lower limit has been reduced, whenever warranted, while the upper limit has remained unchanged at a steeper slope. The slope of the upper limit has been 6% on an annual basis since July 26, 1993; the lower limit has been flat since December 23, 2001. On December 31, 2003, the width of the band, based on the average of the upper and lower limits, was 55%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. Effective January 1, 2003, exchange control was abolished. Previously, it was operated by the Controller of Foreign Exchange and administered by the Bank of Israel (BOI), in coop- eration with other government agencies. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks are required to classify the accounts of residents of areas under autonomous Palestin- ian administration as a separate group and to report these accounts on the basis of the same principles that apply to nonresident accounts. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 460 ISRAEL Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. With the exception of agricultural products, imports are free of quantitative restrictions. A special regime applies to imports from countries that restrict or prohibit imports from Israel. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of oil and certain defense equipment require licensing. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 461 Capital Transactions No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Individuals may purchase securities abroad. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements No. No. No. The Foreign Exchange Regulations require direct reporting to the Controller of Foreign Exchange of outward direct investments exceeding $5 million or its equivalent. New immi- grants and Israeli citizens returning to Israel after having resided abroad for seven years or more are exempt from direct reporting for a three-year period. No. No. No. All foreign currency accounts held by nonresidents are subject to additional secondary reserve ratios, half of which must be deposited with the BOI in an interest-bearing account. Liquid asset requirements Effective June 1, 2003, a secondary reserve ratio no longer applies. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements The same reserve ratios apply to bank accounts held by both residents and nonresidents. Reserve requirements against resident foreign currency accounts are denominated in local currency, whereas reserve requirements against nonresident foreign currency accounts are denominated in foreign currency. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Yes. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Effective January 1, 2003, all restrictions no longer apply. Prior to that date, the ratio of assets to direct and portfolio investments (including real estate) was 20%. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally There is no minimum limit, although prudential regulations may apply. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 462 ISRAEL Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. Exchange control, which was operated by the Controller of Foreign Exchange and administered by the BOI in cooperation with other government agencies, was abolished. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions June 1. The liquid asset requirements on deposit accounts in foreign exchange were abolished. Provisions specific to institutional investors January 1. All restrictions relating to institutional investors' foreign investments were abolished. Previously, the ratio of assets to direct and portfolio investments was 20%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Italy is the euro. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Italy participates in a currency union (EMU) with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. The conversion rate between the euro and the Italian lira was set at Lit 1,936.27 per €1. No. No. Premiums and discounts in the forward exchange market are left to the interplay of market forces. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with foreign countries are effected in foreign currencies or in euros through foreign accounts. Use of foreign exchange among residents Yes. Payments arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Italy ma in ta ins clearing accounts with Croatia and Slovenia. The accounts are used for trade in cross-border areas. The balances in these accounts may be used only to finance trade between certain districts of Croatia and Slovenia and the Italian provinces of Trieste and Gorizia. The balances are not transferable. There is no automatic mechanism through which outstanding balances are settled within 90 days. Only Italy is allowed to maintain a debit balance on these accounts. Residents are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, with settlements to be effected either indirectly —through the Bank of Italy (BOI), other financial intermedi- aries, and the Poste Italiane S.p.a.—or directly by drawing on external accounts or by off- setting debts and credits vis-a-vis other residents or nonresidents. Effective January 1, 2003, operators and intermediaries must transmit, for statistical purposes, data to the U f f i- cio Italiano dei Cambi (UIC) on those foreign transactions that exceed the equivalent of €12,500 (previously, €10,000) by filling out a foreign exchange statistical return. On October 27, 2003, the Italian authorities notified the IMF of some restrictions to freeze the assets of certain senior officials of the governments of Myanmar and Zimbabwe, in accordance with EU Council Regulations Nos. 1081/2000 and 310/2002. The period of the latter regulation was extended un t il February 20, 2004, under EU Council Regulation No. 313/2003. In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, cer- tain restrictions are maintained on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions with respect to certain individuals associated with the previous govern- ment of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, the Taliban, and individuals and organizations 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 464 ITALY associated with terrorism. In accordance with EU Regulation No. 147/2003, effective January 30, 2003, and Regulation No. 1727/2003, effective October 2, 2003, financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia and Democratic Republic of Congo are prohibited. In accordance with EU Council Regulation No. 1799/2003, effec- tive October 16, 2003, all funds and economic resources of certain individuals of the for- mer government of Iraq who were located outside Iraq on May 23, 2003, have been frozen; the list of persons affected by this regulation was revised on December 3, 2003 (Regulation No. 2119/2003). Effective January 29, 2004, financial assistance in relation to military activities in Sudan is prohibited (UN Security Council Resolution No. 131/2004). Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Domestic purchases and sales of gold exceeding the equivalent of €12,500 must be declared to the UIC. Controls on external trade Purchases and sales of gold exceeding the equivalent of €12,500 must be declared to the UIC. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Residents and nonresidents are allowed to take into or out of the country unlimited amounts of cash and securities in euros and/or foreign currency. For fiscal and anti-money launder- ing purposes, the transfer of cash and/or securities exceeding the equivalent of €12,500 must be declared in writing when departing for or entering from a non-EU country, and the declaration must be submitted to a border customs office. When departing for or entering from an EU country, this declaration must be submitted to a bank, customs office, post off ice, or a customs guard station within 48 hours after entry into Italian territory or 48 hours prior to departure from Italian territory. For transfers by mail, the declaration must be submitted within 48 hours after receipt or at the time of mailing. The declaration has to be sent to the UIC by banks, customs offices, post offices, or customs guard stations. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 465 Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts There are accounts that are blocked in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports are governed by EU regulations according to which imports of most products, ex- cept for textiles and some products originating from China, are free of licensing and quanti- tative restrictions. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the CAP are subject to variable import levies, which have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricultural and live- stock products from non-EU countries. Payments for imports are not regulated, but are subject to the general rules cited in the section on Administration of Control. Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Exports to non-EU countries are permitted freely, with the exception of high-technology products included in an EU regulation and of oil extracted from the seabed, which are sub- ject to ministerial authorization. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 466 ITALY Controls on capital and money market instruments On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors The public offering of securities issued by mutual funds that are not covered by EU direc- tives is subject to authorization. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Portfolio investments abroad by life insurance and pension funds are subject to prudential regulations. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws The public offering in Italy of financial products is to be reported to the supervisory authority, and the corresponding prospectuses should be attached. Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 2003 January L The threshold above which the declaration of foreign exchange and gold trans- actions to the UIC for statistical purposes is required was increased to €12,500 from €10,000. January 30. Financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia were prohibited. October 2. Financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Democratic Republic of Congo were prohibited. October 16. All funds and financial resources belonging to certain individuals associated with the former government of Iraq located outside Iraq on May 23, 2003, were frozen. October 27. Italian authorities notified the IMF of the exchange restrictions imposed on Myanmar and Zimbabwe in accordance with EU Council Regulations Nos. 1081/2000 and 310/2002. December 3. The list of persons associated with the former government of Iraq whose financial assets were frozen was revised (Regulation No. 2119/2003). Arrangements for payments and receipts January 29. Financial assistance related to military activities in Sudan was prohibited. Changes During 2004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 22, 1963. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica dollar. Commemorative gold coins in denominations of J$100 and J$500 and souvenir coins in denominations of J$5, J$10, J$25, J$50, and J$100 are legal tender but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the Jamaica dollar is determined in the domestic foreign exchange market. This market is operated by authorized foreign exchange dealers (ADs), cambios, bureaux de change, and the Bank of Jamaica (BOJ). The ADs include all commercial banks, select merchant banks, and the two largest building societies. ADs engage in (1) the purchasing and selling of foreign currency in the form of cash, drafts, traveler's checks, and other instruments; (2) the granting of loans and the taking of deposits; and (3) the making of other international payments. Cambios are allowed to purchase and sell unlimited amounts of foreign exchange in any form to any person. However, unlike ADs, cambios are not permitted to grant loans or accept deposits. The main function of bureaux de change is the exchange of currency for hotel guests. ADs and cambios are required to sell to the BOJ a m in imum of 5% and a maximum of 10% of their daily foreign exchange purchases from commercial clients, excluding purchases from ADs, cambios, and the BOJ. Excess foreign exchange may be sold without restriction to commercial banks, other ADs, and the general public. Proceeds from official loans, divestment of government assets, and taxes on the bauxite sector payable in foreign currency are sold directly to the BOJ. While there is no restriction on transactions in any currency, the principal foreign currencies accepted in the exchange market are the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. Surrenders are al- lowed to be made in any of these three major currencies. Surrenders in Canadian dollars and pounds sterling may be made in U.S. dollars and must be covered at the cross-currency rate derived from their respective weighted-average buying rates in the local market on the day of purchase. The BOJ purchases foreign exchange from ADs and cambios under the following terms: (1) purchases are made in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and euros; (2) the m in imum amount that the BOJ will purchase in a single transaction is 50,000 units of the foreign currency; and (3) the exchange rates for these currencies will be negotiated by the BOJ. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market The market is currently inactive. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to all countries may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an external account or a foreign currency account. Receipts from all countries must be debited to an external account in any foreign currency. Economic agents are free to settle all transactions with domestic currency. The Jamaica dollar may be used to conduct and settle all current transactions. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 468 JAMAICA For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments There are no controls on the use of Jamaican currency to settle transactions involving capital or money market instruments. Transactions in derivatives and other instruments There are no controls on the use of Jamaican currency to engage in transactions in derivatives and other instruments. Credit operations There are no controls on the use of domestic currency for credit operations. Use of foreign exchange among residents Exporters and all others with earnings in foreign exchange are free to hold their proceeds in foreign currency accounts locally or abroad and to use the balances to settle any foreign (currency) obligations. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Jamaica is a member of the CARICOM. The clearing arrangements within the framework of the CARICOM have been suspended since November 1, 1990. The BOJ no longer intervenes in CARICOM private sector commercial transactions; settlements for such transactions are effected by the commercial banking sector in convertible currencies. Trading in foreign exchange, other than by and through an AD, is prohibited. The MOF has the authority to issue directions to specified classes of persons regarding the acquisition of foreign assets. In accordance with UN sanctions Repayment of the loan from Iraq has been suspended in line with UN sanctions. Payments arrears Private Currently, there is no database on private foreign debt. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) There are no restrictions on the purchase, sale, or holding of gold for numismatic or industrial purposes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Jamaica, with transfers from other external accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale of gold or foreign currencies to an AD. They may be debited for payments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other external accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted The Jamaica dollar is not an internationally traded currency. Residents may maintain "B" accounts in domestic currency. These accounts are exempt from tax on interest earned, provided that deposits are held as certificates of deposit with at least a one-year maturity. New B accounts have not been permitted since September 22, 1991. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold foreign exchange accounts ("A" accounts) in Jamaica. These accounts are tax-free under the Income Tax Act once the statutory criteria are met. All credits to these accounts must originate directly from foreign remittances and not from local purchases of foreign exchange. Funds from these accounts may be transferred freely between residents and nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA 469 Domestic currency accounts The regulations governing accounts held by residents apply. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are required for pharmaceutical products and items that endanger public health or security; otherwise, goods may be imported freely without a license. Import li- censes, when required, are issued by the Trade Board, which functions under the direction of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of motor vehicles require a permit for government statistical purposes. Payments for imports may be made by commercial banks without reference to the BOJ. Imports are subject to customs tariffs of up to 20% for nonagricultural products and 40% for agricultural products, in compliance with the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET. Some agricultural imports are subject to additional stamp duties of up to 95%. Taxes are collected by customs at the port of entry. The WTO-bound tariffs on 10 categories of agri- cultural products (certain poultry and vegetables) are 100%. Additional stamp duties on these imported products raise the rate of total duty payable to 260%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Most goods may be exported without restriction. However, specific licenses are required for exports of certain agricultural products, ammunition, explosives, firearms, antique fur- niture, motor vehicles, mineral and metal ores, paintings, jewelry, and petroleum products. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 470 JAMAICA Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Deposit-taking financial institutions are prohibited from investing on behalf of clients. This business is conducted by separate corporate entities. There are no limitations on acquisition of shares in institutions by nonresidents, with the exception of acquisition by foreign governments. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Any issuer that proposes to sell or issue instruments denominated in a foreign currency must obtain ministerial exemption before sale in Jamaica. Bonds or other debt securities These transactions are subject to the Securities Act and the Securities (Commercial Papers) Regulations. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to the regulations in the issuing jurisdiction. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to the Securities (Mutual Funds) Regulations. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to ministerial approval; a prospectus is required under the Companies Act. Purchase abroad by residents For banks, licensed deposit-taking institutions, credit unions, building societies, cambio operators, unit trusts, and pension funds, which acquire foreign assets as part of their busi- ness activities, the purchase must be in accordance with directions issued by the MOF. Jamaican residents may otherwise acquire foreign assets unless acquisition is prohibited by the foreign jurisdiction concerned. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing purchases abroad by residents apply. On collective investment securities Ministerial approval is required for banks, licensed deposit-taking institutions, credit unions, building societies, cambio operators, unit trusts, and pension funds. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to the Securities Act and the Unit Trusts Act. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to the Securities Act and the Unit Trusts Act. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions No. No. No. No. n.r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks JAMAICA 471 Currently, lending in foreign currency may be carried out only by ADs. Other lenders may apply for exemptions issued by the MOF. Any person may purchase instruments denominated in foreign currency. However, only ADs may engage in the business of carrying out transactions with securities issued in for- eign currency. Other specific categories of companies are allowed to acquire foreign securi- ties only in accordance with the directions issued by the MOF. The MOF may exempt other parties from such prohibitions. The liquid assets ratio of commercial banks and entities licensed under the Financial Institutions Act with respect to local and foreign currency liabilities is 23%, and the cash reserve ratio is 9%. All deposit accounts, whether held by residents or nonresidents, are treated alike. Effective January 10, 2003, the BOJ requires 5% of Jamaica dollar deposits of commercial banks to be placed at the central bank as a special deposit. There are limits on investments by deposit-taking institutions that apply to all equity in- vestments. Aggregate shareholdings may not exceed 50% of capital base, and sharehold- ings in any one company may not exceed 10% of capital base. Investments by all related parties may not exceed 20% of capital base. In banks by nonresidents All substantial ownerships in banks are subject to the approval of the MOF. Provisions specific to institutional investors Mutual fund schemes must be approved by the Securities Commission, and there are limits on investments by deposit-taking institutions. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad General investments, including overseas investments by commercial banks, merchant banks, and building societies, are subject to limits. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The minimum to be specified by the Superintendent of Insurance must not exceed 70% of the domestic liabilities of the company. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Commercial banks and licensed deposit-taking institutions may be required to match their Jamaica dollar liabilities to their clients with Jamaica dollar assets. Other controls imposed by securities laws Nonresident companies must be incorporated or registered in Jamaica or other CARICOM member states in order to obtain a license to deal in securities or give investment advice. Nonresident companies must be owned, controlled, or supervised by persons who are citizens of, and are actually residents in, Jamaica or other CARICOM states, as may be prescribed. Changes During 2003 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 10. The BOJ required 5% of Jamaica dollar deposits to be placed at the central bank as a special deposit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 1, 1964. Currency The currency of Japan is the Japanese yen. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions The exchange rate of the Japanese yen is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the market. The principal intervention currency is the dollar. No. No. There are no o f f ic ia l ly set rates in the forward market, and forward exchange transactions are based on free market rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The exchange and trade control system is operated mainly by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry (METI), and the Bank of Japan (BOJ), which acts as the government's agent. Import- and export-reporting requirements are handled by the METI. Measures have been taken to freeze funds and other assets of the Taliban, individuals and entities associated with the Taliban, and terrorist organizations, in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Permission from the MOF and the METI is required for payments to the Taliban and indi- viduals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. In accordance with UN Secu- rity Council resolutions, economic sanctions against Iraq were l i f ted on May 22, 2003. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Exports and imports of gold exceeding 1 kg in total weight must be declared to the MOF through the customs authorities. Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Exports and imports of banknotes (including checks, traveler's checks, promissory notes, and securities) in both domestic and foreign currency exceeding ¥1 million in value must be declared to the MOF through the customs authorities. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. 472 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 473 On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Certain goods are subject to import restrictions under the Import Control Order for pur- poses of national security, public health, and environmental and moral protection. Imports of these goods require prior approval from the METI. For the restricted items, authorization from the METI and an import quota certificate are required. For the importation of certain other goods from specific countries or shipping areas, individual authorization must be obtained from the METI. Import settlements effected under special methods require au- thorization from the METI. Yes. Yes. Yes. January 1, 2003, the tariff on imports of chilled beef was temporarily increased to 50% from 38.5%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 474 JAPAN Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Export restraint may be applied either globally or to certain destinations, and it may cover export volume, export prices, or other conditions. Exports of specified raw materials for foreign processing and reimportation require individual licenses. Certain goods are subject to export restrictions under the Export Control Order for purposes of international security and environmental protection. Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Outward direct investments by residents in a limited number of industries, such as the manufacture of arms, require prior notice. Inward direct investments by foreign investors in a limited number of industries, such as the manufacture of arms, require prior notice. No. No. No. No. The limits are (1) 30% of total assets for insurance companies purchasing foreign currency- denominated assets; (2) 20% of the reserve funds issued by nonresidents for holding by the Post Office Insurance Fund of bonds; and (3) 30% of pension trust assets for foreign cur- rency-denominated assets purchased by pension funds deposited before April 1,1990, and 50% thereafter, on the basis of each institutional account, with the ceiling for foreign- affiliated companies being 70%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 475 Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments Changes During 2003 May 22. The economic sanctions against Iraq were lifted. January L The tariff on imports of chilled beef was temporarily increased to 50% from 38.5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position as of December 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 20, 1995. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jordan is the Jordanian dinar. The Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) issues commemorative gold coins, which, although legal tender, do not circulate but are available to residents and nonresidents. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The dinar is o f f ic ia l ly pegged to the SDR, but in practice it has been pegged to the dollar since late 1995. The difference between the CBJ's buying and selling rates is 0.3%. No. No. Licensed banks may buy forward an unlimited amount of foreign currency against dinars from their customers, and they may sell forward foreign currencies against dinars to their customers to pay for imports into Jordan. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements n.a. Operative There is an arrangement with the Syrian Arab Republic. Administration of control No. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Restrictions are applied to financial transactions involving assets of the Taliban in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 1267. Payment arrears to bilateral creditors have been rescheduled under a Paris Club agreement. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are permitted without restriction. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. 476 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 477 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required n.r. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts For statistical purposes, proof of domicile is required when nonresident accounts are opened. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Blocked accounts Bank accounts of certain individuals associated with the former government of Iraq are blocked. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. This comprises imports of certain goods that are prohibited for national security considerations. Import taxes and/or tariffs The maximum tariff rate is 30%, excluding cigarettes and alcoholic beverages on which higher rates apply. State import monopoly Oil imports are effected by a state agency. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Licenses for exports are not required, except for exports to countries that have bilateral agreements with Jordan. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 478 JORDAN Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. No. Yes. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on credit operations There are no controls on these transactions, except for exposure limits. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Nonresident investments are limited to a maximum of 49% ownership or 50% subscription in shares in the following major sectors: commerce and trade services, construction, contracting, and transportation. The amount of investment in any one project must total at least JD 50,000. Investments in the following sectors are not permitted for nonresidents: investigation and security, quarrying and mining, waste removal, sport clubs, and road transportation of goods and passengers. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are allowed only if reciprocal agreements exist. Cabinet approval must be obtained. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gambling is illegal in Jordan, but the transfer of prize earnings is not restricted. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks Licensed banks may lend to nonresidents up to 30% of their foreign exchange deposits. Licensed banks may lend to residents and nonresidents up to 30% of their foreign exchange deposits. No controls apply except for foreign exchange exposure limits. Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents The issuance of these securities is not regulated, and portfolio investments are not restricted. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition No controls apply except for foreign exposure limits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 479 Other controls imposed by securities laws Except for the sectoral controls described under direct investments, there are no other controls. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 16, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Kazakhstan is the Kazakhstani tenge. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions The exchange rate of the tenge is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the for- eign exchange market with limited intervention of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan (NBK). Effective June 9, 2003, the o f f ic ial exchange rate of the tenge against the dollar is determined daily as the weighted average rate at noon the previous day on the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange (KASE) (previously, it was set on the basis of an assessment of the general macroeconomic situation; inflation rate and monetary aggregate indicators; transactions in the foreign exchange market; information about transactions in the over-the- counter market; the short-term rates on deposits, credits, and NBK notes; and repo rates). The rates for other currencies are calculated on the basis of their cross rates against the dollar. The currency market includes the KASE, which conducts daily trading online using an electronic trading system, an over-the-counter interbank market, and a network of exchange bureaus handling foreign exchange cash transactions. Banks may participate in trading sessions on their own account or on behalf of their clients. Banks may also trade in an over- the-counter interbank market at freely negotiated rates. There are about 2,500 exchange bureaus that conduct foreign exchange cash transactions. No. No. Foreign exchange futures are quoted on the KASE. Forward exchange operations are also conducted in the interbank market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions between residents and nonresidents may be conducted in any currency as long as they comply with the requirements of foreign exchange regulations. The NBK has the authority to impose restrictions on the currencies of receipt for residents' export operations (to date, no restrictions have been imposed). Resident and nonresident natural persons may use foreign currency in Kazakhstan for transactions effected through authorized banks, crediting their own foreign exchange ac- counts, transfers through authorized banks (including transfers not associated with ac- counts) in cases specified by legislation, and settlements of goods and services sold by residents possessing the appropriate NBK license. A list of permitted capital transactions is provided in the Law on Foreign Exchange Regula- tion. Certain types of capital transactions involving the transfer of foreign exchange assets from residents to nonresidents (including transactions in domestic currency between resi- dents and nonresidents) are subject to NBK licensing. Capital transactions involving the transfer of funds from nonresidents to residents in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 must be registered. 480 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN 481 Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Credit operations The use of foreign currency in settlements of credits received in domestic currency, interest payments, and other related payments in foreign exchange is prohibited except for settle- ments between residents and nonresidents. Nonresident juridical persons are prohibited from using credits received in domestic currency to purchase foreign exchange in the domestic foreign exchange market. Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments and/or transfers of currency between residents must be effected in domestic currency unless specified by legislative acts. Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency No. The NBK establishes the procedures for exchange transactions and monitors compliance therewith; supervises authorized banks and authorized institutions carrying out certain types of banking operations; regulates the limit on open foreign exchange positions; and has the authority to introduce restrictions on the currencies of receipt for export operations performed by residents and the surrender procedures for export proceeds. The NBK re- serves the right to impose restrictions on export and import transactions in order to main- tain economic security. For the purpose of fu lf i l l ing international obligations during periods of emergencies, the government reserves the right to introduce restrictions on foreign exchange operations. The MOF monitors government and government-guaranteed borrowing and manages gov- ernment debt. The Ministry of Industry and Trade performs the licensing of imports and exports of goods and services together with other activities within the scope of its authority, and it also monitors licensees' compliance with qualification requirements and licensing regulations. The Customs Control Agency performs customs control and, within the scope of its authority, foreign exchange control. Authorized banks and authorized institutions engaged in certain types of banking operations and other institutions that monitor compli- ance with foreign exchange legislation serve as foreign exchange control agents. On January 1, 2004, the NBK's functions pertaining to regulation, licensing, and control and supervision of banks and other financial institutions were transferred to the newly created Financial Supervision Agency (FSA). No. No. There are no specific restrictions on the export of refined precious metals. Control over the foreign trade of refined precious metals, however, is maintained in the same manner as that applied to other goods. For purposes of trade, however, refined gold bullion is classified as a foreign exchange asset. Domestic currency notes may be exported without restriction. Resident natural persons may export foreign currency up to the equivalent of $10,000 or up to an amount previously imported and declared, subject to documentary evidence. Effective September 23, 2003, the export of foreign currency notes exceeding the equivalent of $3,000 by nonresident natural persons requires the presentation of a customs declaration showing that the funds had previously been imported. Previously, these transactions had to be carried out in accordance with the declaration prepared at the time of export. Amounts exceeding these limits require documentary evidence that the foreign exchange was previously imported. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 482 KAZAKHSTAN Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Resident juridical persons may conduct foreign exchange transactions through bank ac- counts at authorized banks only. Resident juridical persons may withdraw foreign exchange from their bank accounts to pay wages to nonresident employees and to cover expenses related to travel abroad by employ- ees on official business. Effective September 23, 2003, up to the equivalent of $10,000 a month may be withdrawn for travel expenses. An NBK license is required to open these accounts. Effective May 25, 2003, an NBK license is required to open these accounts except in the case of resident banks and resident natural persons residing abroad temporarily for pur- poses of medical treatment, study, vacation, or work. Effective August 26, 2003, NBK registration only is required for resident natural persons to open accounts with banks in OECD-member countries that satisfy minimum rating requirements. Previously, a license holder could not be in arrears to authorized banks in Kazakhstan, and had to open an ac- count at a foreign bank within six months of the date the license was obtained. The regulations applicable to foreign currency accounts held abroad apply. All domestic currency accounts are convertible; however, resident juridical persons may acquire foreign currency in the domestic currency market only for purposes specified in the legislation. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident juridical persons may open these accounts for foreign exchange operations and may withdraw currency from these accounts only to pay employee wages and for business travel expenses. Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. In order to purchase foreign exchange, resident juridical persons must submit documentary evidence of the purpose of the transaction, including invoices. Effective May 25, 2003, a transaction passport must be compiled for each import transaction valued in excess of the equivalent of $10,000 (previously, $5,000), first at the customs authorities and subse- quently at the serving bank; an NBK license is required. The transaction passport is checked to verify compliance with the terms of the import contract and is monitored by the customs authorities and an authorized bank until completion. Importers must ensure that the value of goods imported into the country is equal to the amount paid for them. If the goods are not delivered, the importer must refund the funds that had been previously transferred to the importer's account with an authorized bank within the period established in the con- tract, but no later than 180 days (prior to May 25, 2003, 120 days) following the date of the transfer, unless stipulated differently in the NBK license. Deferments of payment or delivery of imports (commercial lending) for a period exceeding 180 days (prior to May 25, 2003, 120 days) are treated as capital transactions. Deferments exceeding 180 days and valued at more than $100,000 require NBK registration. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Domiciliation requirements Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list KAZAKHSTAN 483 Foreign currency purchased by resident juridical persons that is not used for its designated purpose within 30 days of its acquisition must be sold in the domestic currency market at the current market rate. Import licenses are required for 12 categories of goods. Certain goods and services require an import license or a special license that is issued with governmental approval. On the basis of the Lists of the 1961 Single Convention on Nar- cotic Drugs, the 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances, and the 1988 Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, which Kazakhstan signed in 1997, a list has been established of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and their precursors, and poisonous substances that are subject to controls. There is also a list of multicomponent medicines containing small quantities of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, and their precursors that are not subject to controls. Imports of hazardous indus- trial waste are prohibited. Licenses with quotas Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports are generally subject to a VAT of 16% (this was reduced to 15% on January 1, 2004); to excise taxes, if the same taxes apply to domestically produced goods; and to customs charges. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to credit export proceeds in foreign exchange to a bank account at an authorized bank within 180 days (prior to May 25, 2003, 120 days) of the shipment date, unless stipulated differently in the NBK license. In the event that export proceeds are not received during this period and the amount exceeds the equivalent of $10,000 (prior to May 25, 2003, $5,000), the exporter must obtain an NBK license or reimport the goods. An NBK license is required to credit export proceeds to accounts at foreign banks. Exports with a deferred payment period exceeding 180 days are considered capital transac- tions. Effective August 26, 2003, advance payments exceeding 180 days and valued at more than the equivalent of $100,000 require NBK registration. Effective November 29, 2003, a list is maintained of goods for which export proceeds may be received up to 365 days after export without a license. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Supporting documents must be presented. If an export transaction is considered a capital transaction, the exporters may not dispose of foreign exchange proceeds without obtaining a license and/or registration certificate. Export licenses are required for 21 categories of goods. Certain listed exports require a license or a special license that is issued with governmental approval. Certain listed goods require an export license in accordance with the international obliga- tions of Kazakhstan. Effective January 1, 2004, a tax applies on exports of crude oil by developers who have not concluded product-sharing contracts. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments to be made by residents to nonresidents must be supported by documents indicating the validity of payments (contract, agreement, accord, etc.) to an authorized bank. Current transfers exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 by natural persons must be effected through an authorized bank by opening an account and presenting supporting documents. Resident and nonresident natural persons may make one-time transfers of up to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 484 KAZAKHSTAN Trade-related payments Quantitative limits $10,000 through an authorized bank without opening an account. However, banks may make only one such transfer a day and the transfer may not be related to a capital transaction. Effective May 25, 2003, deferment of the delivery of services or payments for services provided for a period of more than 180 days (previously, 120 days) is treated as a capital transaction, and earnings from services provided for nonresidents must be repatriated within 180 days (previously, 120 days). An NBK license is required to effect prepayments exceeding the equivalent of $5,000. When reinsuring with a nonresident insurance (reinsurance) company, the liability retained by the resident insurance (reinsurance) company must represent at least 5% of the total amount if the percentage of liability of the maximum liability of an insurance (reinsurance) company under an individual insurance or reinsurance agreement does not exceed 10% of the company's equity capital and insurance reserves. A domestic resident insurance (reinsurance) company may assign insurance risks outside the country for reinsurance to a nonresident reinsurance company directly or through a nonresident insurance broker if the company possesses a specific rating from one of the rating agencies. A list of minimum rating requirements has been established by an author- ized state body. The total amount of insurance premiums paid by the assignor to nonresident reinsurance organizations, less commissions received from them by the assignor, must not exceed 85% of the total amount of insurance premiums received under insurance agreements (with consideration for those paid by reinsurance organizations) within a fu ll fiscal year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Supporting documents must be presented. Investment-related payments Prior approval NBK registration is required for receipts from nonresidents of rent for an enterprise, when the contract includes a property complex, and of rent for other real estate when prepayment exceeds 180 days. In addition, effective August 26, 2003, NBK registration is required for payments of royalty fees and transfers of intellectual property exceeding the equivalent of $100,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Documentary evidence for the validity of payments must be submitted. Payments for travel Resident and nonresident juridical persons are entitled to withdraw funds from their foreign exchange accounts to pay expenses connected with travel of a juridical person's employees on foreign business trips. Effective September 23, 2003, up to the equivalent of $10,000 a month may be withdrawn from a resident foreign exchange account to make payments for business travel abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Supporting documents must be presented. Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Current foreign exchange transactions in the form of one-time transfers by resident and nonresident natural persons in an amount up to the equivalent of $10,000 may be effected through authorized banks without opening an account and/or presenting supporting docu- ments. For transfers in excess of this amount without the relevant documents and totaling more than $50,000 in one month, a bank is required to provide information to the NBK regarding the person in question and the transactions performed. Advance payments for services from nonresidents of more than 180 days and exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 require an NBK license. Indicative limits/bona fide test Supporting documents must be presented. Credit card use abroad The use of credit cards is permitted only for business travel and foreign representation expenses. Indicative limits/bona fide test Supporting documents must be presented. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKHSTAN 485 Other payments Prior approval Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Supporting documents must be presented. Payments of rental on nonresidents' real estate by residents require an NBK license. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Restrictions on use of funds When a transaction is treated as a capital transaction, a license and/or registration certificate is required to dispose of the funds. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchases in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 must be registered with the NBK, except for those effected through resident broker companies. Purchases from nonresidents by residents are subject to prior NBK licensing, with the exception of brokerage and dealer activities by banks and, effective May 25, 2003, purchases meeting requirements under foreign exchange legislation. Subsequent transactions between residents are classified as trading and subject to NBK authorization; the trading of instruments with a rating no lower than A (based on the classification of the Standard & Poor's and Fitch rating agencies) or A2 (Moody's Investors Service) does not require NBK authorization. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases of shares from nonresidents by residents are subject to NBK licensing. Sale or issue abroad by residents Transactions exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 require an NBK license and NBK regis- tration, as well as prior notification and submission to the NBK. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 must be registered with the NBK. This requirement does not apply in the case of purchases of government securities, deposit certificates, or domestic securities purchased through resident brokers. On money market instruments The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing money market instruments apply to collective investment securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Present legislation has established only the concept of derivative instruments and does not define them. Accounting and registration of transactions with derivative securities traded on the organized securities markets are performed in accordance with the rules for securi- ties exchange trading established by the trader. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents A license from the NBK is required for lending operations in excess of the equivalent of $10,000 with maturities of more than 180 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 486 KAZAKHSTAN To residents from nonresidents A registration certificate from the NBK is required for operations with maturities of more than 180 days and in amounts exceeding the equivalent of $100,000. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The regulations governing commercial credits apply. To residents from nonresidents A registration certificate from the NBK is required for credits in amounts exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 with maturities of more than 180 days. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Effective May 25, 2003, direct investments in OECD-member countries or countries with which Kazakhstan has reached an agreement on mutual investment do not require NBK registration. All other investments are subject to NBK licensing. Effective August 25, 2003, NBK registration is required if a domestic owner holds 50% or more of the voting shares of a foreign entity. A certificate of registration from the NBK is required for residents to solicit foreign in- vestments in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 (excluding reinvestments). Investment and ownership in the local insurance industry are subject to the following re- strictions: (1) nonresident insurance companies may not open branch offices locally, and other nonresident companies—other than holding companies with subsidiary insurance companies —are prohibited from creating subsidiary insurance companies locally; (2) non- resident insurance brokerage firms are prohibited from opening branch offices and repre- sentative offices locally, and other nonresident companies are prohibited from participating in the creation of an insurance brokerage locally; (3) juridical persons registered in an off- shore zone or juridical persons whose authorized capital includes juridical persons regis- tered in an offshore zone may not open an insurance company locally; and (4) at least one- third of the members of the board of directors and executive board of an insurance or rein- surance company with nonresident participation must be Kazakhstan! citizens. Investment in domestic banks may only be effected by entities with an international rating that is higher than the Kazakhstan sovereign rating. This requirement does not apply in the case of registered entities in specific offshore sites. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Transfers of funds from residents to nonresidents for real estate are subject to NBK licensing. Purchase locally by nonresidents Transfers of funds in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 from nonresidents to residents for purchases of real estate are subject to NBK registration. Sale locally by nonresidents An NBK license is required. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Loans by residents to nonresidents in foreign currency for a term of more than 180 days (prior to May 25, 2003, 120 days) are subject to NBK licensing. To residents from nonresidents Loans by nonresidents to residents for a term of more than 180 days and in an amount equivalent to more than $100,000 are subject to registration with the NBK. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Nonresident natural persons are entitled to transfer their funds abroad without restriction upon presentation of supporting documents. Prudential standards must be observed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents KAZAKHSTAN 487 Authorized banks may extend credit in foreign currency to resident and nonresident juridical persons only in noncash form. Settlement in foreign exchange of loans received in domestic currency and of payment of interest and other charges on them are prohibited, except in cases where these settlements are effected between residents and nonresidents. Banks may purchase only specifically listed securities. Investments abroad by resident banks are limited by the ratio set for the placement of their own and borrowed funds in domestic assets. Direct (immediate) or indirect (through participation in the authorized capital of other ju- ridical persons) participation by a bank in the authorized capital of another juridical person may not exceed 10% of the bank's equity capital. Direct participation by a bank in the au- thorized capital of a juridical person through the transfer of ownership to the bank of stocks previously accepted as collateral, appraised at their fair value determined in accordance with international financial reporting standards, may not exceed 25% of the bank's equity capital. NBK approval is required for the establishment or acquisition of a subsidiary by a bank. Banks are prohibited from performing business operations and transactions not re- lated to banking and from participating in the authorized capital of juridical persons, except in the case of (1) participation in authorized capital banks, private pension savings funds, pension asset management companies, investment funds, insurance companies, leasing companies, and juridical persons whose stocks are listed on the stock exchange, provided that the amount does not exceed 15% of the total number of stocks issued by a single is- suer; (2) participation in the authorized capital of juridical persons that are part of the fi- nancial market infrastructure and/or are engaged in automating the activities of banks and institutions performing certain types of banking operations; (3) participation in the author- ized capital of organizations engaged in professional activities in the securities market; (4) participation in the authorized capital of juridical persons in cases where stocks of these organizations accepted as collateral become the property of the banks in accordance with the terms of the security agreement before they are sold by the banks; (5) activities related to management of the property and affairs of insolvent debtors in bankruptcy proceedings; and (6) the performance of transactions with bonds of juridical persons whose securities are listed on the stock exchange. Representative offices of nonresident banks may be opened with the consent of the NBK. The opening of branches of foreign banks in Kazakhstan is prohibited. The opening of a subsidiary nonresident bank and the acquisition of more than 50% of the stock of a resident bank by a nonresident bank are permitted, provided that the nonresident bank's representa- tive office has been in operation domestically for at least one year. Nonresident juridical persons, including banks, may hold more than 10% of the stock of a resident bank, provided that they have a rating that is not below the rating of Kazakhstan by one of the major international rating agencies, a list of which is established by the NBK. The following requirements must be observed in the establishment and operations of banks with foreign participation: (1) the total declared authorized capital of banks with foreign participation must not exceed 50% of the total declared authorized capital of all Kazakhstani banks, except in cases permitted by the NBK; (2) at least one member of the supervisory board of a bank with foreign participation must be a citizen of Kazakhstan who has worked in an executive capacity for not less than three years in a bank operating in Kazakhstan and has knowledge of Kazakhstani banking and civil legislation; (3) a bank with foreign participation is required to place resources in domestic assets in an amount and in accordance with procedures established by the NBK—a list of domestic assets is established by the NBK; and (4) at least 70% of the employees of the bank must be citizens of Kazakhstan. The NBK has the right to impose additional requirements on banks with foreign participation with respect to the makeup of their governing bodies, the banking operations they may perform, prudential standards, other binding rules and limits, and reporting procedures. Juridical persons registered in offshore zones or having affiliated persons registered in off- shore zones, or natural persons who are participants (founders, shareholders) of juridical persons registered in offshore zones, a list of which is established by the NBK, may not be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 488 KAZAKHSTAN founders or shareholders of resident banks. (This restriction does not extend to banks with a credit rating no lower than A from one of the rating agencies, a list of which is established by theNBK .) A nonresident bank that is the founder of or participant in a resident bank is required to submit, in addition to other necessary documents, written confirmation from a bank super- visory body of the relevant country that the bank possesses a current banking license and that the bank is subject to supervision on a consolidated basis. A nonresident juridical or natural person who is a founder of a bank is required to append to the application for a permit to open a bank —in addition to other necessary documents— (1) information on the participation of the bank in the authorized capital of other banks and financial institutions; and (2) a written statement from an authorized body (for nonresident banks, a bank supervising body) of the relevant country allowing the person to participate in the authorized capital of*a Kazakhstani resident bank or a statement from an authorized body (for nonresident banks, a bank supervising body) of the relevant country to the effect that such permission is not required by law in the country of this founder. The overall net foreign exchange position limit is 50% of a bank's equity capital. The (long and short) open foreign exchange position limits for currencies of countries with a sover- eign rating of no lower than A from Standard & Poor's (or a rating of a similar level from one of the other internationally recognized rating organizations) and for euros are 30% of a bank's equity capital. The short foreign exchange position limits for currencies of countries with a sovereign rating of between B and A from Standard & Poor's (or rating of a similar level from one of the other rating organizations) is 15% of a bank's equity capital. In all other cases, the short and long open foreign exchange limits are 5%. Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors General licenses are issued to pension asset-management companies to invest in nonresident securities. Effective September 18, 2003, investment in pension assets no longer requires NBK registration. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Pension asset-management companies may place up to 40% of the pension assets of each private pension savings fund under their management in the following financial instruments and amounts, based on the total volume of pension assets (including the current volume of investments and the balance of funds in the investment accounts of private pension savings funds held by the custodian on the date the transaction is concluded): (1) not more than 30% may be held in securities of foreign countries or instruments of international issuers with a rating of AA or higher (based on Standard and Poor's and Fitch classification) or Aa2 (based on Moody's Investor Service classification); (2) not more than 20% may be held in instruments rated A or A2 or higher; and (3) not more than 10% may be held in instruments rated BBB or Baa2 or higher. Insurance companies may invest up to 30% of total assets in instruments rated A- or A3 or higher; 30% of total assets may be invested in sovereign bonds rated A- or A3 or higher; and 30% may be invested in securities of listed international financial institutions. Pension asset-management companies are required to place not less than 25% of the pen- sion assets of each private pension savings fund under their management in government securities of Kazakhstan (including those issued in compliance with legislation of other countries). For securities issued by local government authorities, a minimum of 20% ap- plies, except in the case of those issued in compliance with legislation of other countries. An NBK license is required to conduct professional activities in the securities market, to operate a stock exchange, and to operate as a self-regulating organization of professional participants in the securities market. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement June 9. The exchange rate of the tenge began to be set at the previous day's noon weighted exchange rate on the KASE. Arrangements for payments and receipts September 23. Exports of foreign currency by nonresidents were made subject to a limit equivalent to $3,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Resident accounts KAZAKHSTAN 489 May 25. Resident natural persons were allowed to open foreign exchange accounts abroad during temporary stays abroad, without NBK licenses. August 26. NBK registration only was required to open an account with a bank in an OECD-member country with a m in imum rating. September 23. Resident juridical persons were allowed to withdraw up to the equivalent of $ 10,000 a month for travel expenses abroad. Imports and import payments May 25. The limit at which a transaction passport is required for an import transaction was increased to the equivalent of $10,000 from $5,000. Exports and export proceeds May 25. The period within which goods for which advance payment had been made must be received, or be subject to refund or considered a capital transaction, was extended to 180 days from 120 days. May 25. The limit at which an NBK license is required was increased to the equivalent of $18,000 from $5,000. May 25. The period within which export proceeds must be repatriated, or be subject to li- censing or reimporting requirements or considered a capital transaction was extended to 180 days from 120 days. August 26. Advance payments exceeding 180 days and valued at more than the equivalent of $100,000 required NBK registration. November 29. A list of goods was established for which export proceeds may be received up to 365 days after export without a license. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers May 25. The period within which delivery of services must be received, or be considered a capital transaction, was extended to 180 days from 120 days. May 25. The period within which earnings from services provided for nonresidents must be repatriated was increased to 180 days from 120 days. August 26. Payments of royalty fees and transfers of intellectual property exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 required NBK registration. September 23. Resident juridical persons were allowed to withdraw up to the equivalent of $10,000 a month for travel expenses abroad. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments May 25. Purchases of instruments meeting requirements under foreign exchange legislation were no longer subject to NBK licensing. Controls on direct investment May 25. Direct investments in OECD-member countries or countries with which a treaty on mutual investment has been signed were no longer subject to NBK registration. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to institutional investors August 25. NBK registration was required when a domestic owner holds 50% or more of the voting shares of a foreign entity. May 25. The period for which NBC licensing is required for loans by residents to nonresi- dents and by nonresidents to residents was increased to 180 days from 120 days. September 18. Investment of pension assets no longer requires NBK registration. Changes During 2004 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. The FSA came into operation and assumed the NBK's functions pertaining to licensing, regulation, control, and supervision of banks and other financial institutions. Imports and import payments January 1. The VAT was reduced to 15% from 16%. Exports and export proceeds January 1. A tax was imposed on exports of crude oil by developers who have not concluded product-sharing contracts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 30,1994. Currency The currency of Kenya is the Kenya shilling. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate is determined in the foreign exchange market. Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to deal in cash and foreign traveler's checks. The dollar is the principal in- tervention currency. The official exchange rate is set at the previous day's average market rate and applies only to government and government-guaranteed external debt-service payments and to government imports for which there is a specific budget allocation. No. No. Commercial banks are authorized to enter into forward exchange contracts with their cus- tomers at market-determined exchange rates in currencies of their choice. There are no limits on the amount or period of cover. For prudential purposes, commercial banks require approval from the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) before introducing new forward contract products. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Kenya is a member of COMES A, the EAC, and RIFF. The Central Bank Act gives the CBK the power to license and regulate foreign exchange dealers. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Off ic ial Effective January 15, 2004, off ic ial debt arrears have been rescheduled with Paris Club creditors. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 490 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 491 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts n.r. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures A copy of the import declaration form, a final invoice, and a copy of the customs entry form must be submitted. An inspection is required for all imports with an f.o.b. value of more than $5,000 or its equivalent. These are subject to inspection for quality, quantity, and price and require a clean report of findings. Banks are allowed to effect clean payments (for imports) provided they obtain a pledge from the importer to submit the documents at a later date. Negative list The list includes a few items for health, security, and environmental reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Coffee, tea, and horticultural produce may be exported only if a sales contract is registered with the Coffee Board, Tea Board, and Horticultural Crops Development Authority, respec- tively. Exports of certain foods and agricultural products require special licenses to ensure adequate supplies in the domestic market. Exports of minerals, precious stones, and other essential strategic materials are also subject to special licensing. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 492 KENYA Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents A minimum of 25% of the share capital of a listed company must be held by domestic investors. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents No controls apply on the sale of securities by nonresidents. However, the issue of securities by nonresidents requires prior approval from the Capital Markets Authority (CMA). Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issue of securities abroad by residents requires prior approval from the CMA. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents No controls apply on sales, but issuing money market instruments requires prior approval from the CBK. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issue of money market instruments abroad by residents requires prior CBK approval. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents CBK approval is required for these transactions. Sale or issue abroad by residents CBK approval is required for these transactions. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. No. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of real estate are subject to government approval. Controls on personal capital transactions No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 493 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits Foreign exchange exposure may not exceed 20% of an institution's core capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Yes. No. Retirement benefit schemes may invest up to 15% abroad. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2004 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 15. Official debt arrears were rescheduled with Paris Club creditors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI (Position as of December 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 22, 1986. 1 Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Kiribati is the Australian dollar. A small number of Kiribati coins is also in circulation. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate There is no central monetary institution, and the authorities do not buy or sell foreign ex- legal tender change. The Bank of Kiribati (BOK), the only commercial bank, quotes daily rates for 15 currencies on the basis of their respective rates against the Australian dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market The BOK provides forward contracts of up to three months of maturity. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Outward and inward payments may be settled in any currency. Purchases and sales of for- eign currencies in exchange for Australian dollars must be undertaken with the BOK, the only authorized foreign exchange dealer. Payments arrangements Yes. Regional arrangements Kiribati participates in PACER and PICTA. Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. No. Only authorized dealers are permitted to own or trade in gold. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Yes. trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. n.r. Resident Accounts 494 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI 495 Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.r. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Yes. n.r. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. n.r. Negative list Imports of some goods are prohibited for health, safety, or environmental reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs Tariffs ranging from zero to 80% apply to most private imports. Specific duties apply to imports of rice, flour, petroleum products, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco products. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. n.r. Export licenses Export taxes Copra may be exported only through the Kiribati Copra Cooperative Society. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds n.r. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions These transactions are covered by the provisions of the Exchange Control Act. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls apply on all transactions in capital and money market instruments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 496 KIRIBATI Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls apply on all these transactions. Controls on credit operations Controls apply on all these transactions. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment The authorities encourage investments in the export-promoting or import-substituting sec- tors. All applications for foreign investment up to the equivalent of $A 250,000 must be submitted to the Foreign Investment Commission for approval. Applications with a larger capital contribution are subject to cabinet approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment n.r. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are not permitted to purchase land or real estate. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Yes. n.r. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Legislation related to banking and prudential regulations related to lending and financial institutions are currently being formulated. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. n.r. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 1, 1988. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Republic of Korea is the Korean won. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions The exchange rate of the won is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the for- eign exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the market. No. No. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transactions, futures transactions, swaps, and options between foreign currencies, as well as between won and foreign currencies. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements with other countries may be made in any convertible currency except won. Nonresidents are permitted to carry out current transactions denominated in won, provided that remittances are made in foreign currencies. For this purpose, nonresidents are allowed to open settlement accounts in won (free won accounts) for current transactions as well as for reinsurance contracts and investments in domestic securities. Nonresidents may effect won-denominated current account transactions only through nonresident free won accounts. Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents Residents are permitted to conduct transactions denominated in foreign currency, provided that the payments are made through foreign exchange banks. Payments arrangements No. Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions The Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE) initiates policy with respect to prescription of currency, method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for current transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Korea (BOK) executes the policies governing most of the above functions. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, financial transactions with individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism are prohibited. Payments arrears No. 497 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 498 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents are allowed to import and export gold except for gold coins in circulation, subject to the same regulations as those applied to merchandise trade. Exports of domestic banknotes in excess of the equivalent of $10,000 must be declared to customs. Exports of foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of $10,000 may be made freely. Exports in excess of $10,000 require customs declaration. Nonresidents may export up to $10,000 or the amount they exchanged during their stay in Korea. BOK notification is required for amounts in excess of these limits. Residents and nonresidents must notify the customs office if the amount of domestic currency they bring into Korea exceeds the equivalent of $10,000. Residents and nonresidents must notify the customs off ice if the amount of foreign currency they bring into Korea exceeds the equivalent of $10,000. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad The foreign currency composition of these accounts may be changed without restriction. Institutional investors are permitted to hold deposits abroad for asset diversification purposes without a quantitative ceiling. However, prior BOK notification is required for transfers abroad by individuals exceeding the equivalent of $50,000 a day. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Prior MOFE notification is required to open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Remittances from these accounts and withdrawals in foreign currency may be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remittances abroad or transfers to other foreign currency accounts for purchases and withdrawals of foreign means of payment or for payments relating to approved transactions. Domestic currency accounts No. Convertible into foreign currency Remittances from nonresident free won accounts may be made freely, but remittances abroad from nonresident domestic currency accounts require notification to the BOK. Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA 499 Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures About 4,000 products are subject to special import approval procedures, mostly for health and other reasons, under the regulation on import notices. Negative list Licenses with quotas Yes. There are quantitative import restrictions on rice. Import taxes and/or tariffs There are adjustment tariffs on 20 products. There are antidumping duties on 12 products. The Korea Trade Commission may recommend quotas as a safeguard measure if it has determined that increases in certain imports have seriously harmed domestic industries. Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. State import monopoly There is a state monopoly on the import of 18 agricultural products. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Export earnings exceeding $100,000 or the equivalent must be repatriated within six months of receipt. However, they may be held abroad and used for overseas transactions in accordance with the regulations on foreign exchange transactions. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes There are export bans for environmental reasons on 13 six-digit items from the Harmonized System. There are quotas under the ATC and voluntary restraint on 4 six-digit Harmonized System items. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Transfers of income from securities acquired through inheritance require BOK notification. There is no limit on payments for travel, but payments exceeding $10,000 or the equivalent must be declared to customs. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions exceeding $100,000 or the equivalent must be repatri- ated to Korea within six months of receipt. However, they may be held abroad and used for overseas transactions in accordance with the regulations on foreign exchange transactions. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 500 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions are based on a negative list system. Proceeds from capital transactions in excess of $100,000 or its equivalent must be repatriated to Korea within six months of accrual. These funds, however, may be held abroad and used for overseas trans- actions in accordance with the regulations on foreign exchange transactions. Nonresidents may borrow stocks from residents through brokerage houses up to the value of W 5 billion without approval from or reporting to the authorities. Foreign institutions are eligible to list their shares on the Korean Stock Exchange in the form of depositary receipts. These institutions include international financial organizations, central or municipal governments, public organizations, and general companies. Foreign institutions may issue won-denominated bonds in the domestic capital market. However, the issuer must submit a prior report to the MOFE and the Financial Supervisory Council (FSC). The sale or issuance of foreign currency-denominated bonds abroad by residents must be reported to a designated foreign exchange bank. The sale or issuance of won-denominated bonds abroad by residents must be reported to the MOFE. Only the issuance of won-denominated securities with a maturity of less than one year re- quires MOFE approval. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases of short-term securities abroad denominated in won require BOK approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are no controls for foreign exchange banks to issue money market instruments denominated in foreign currency in foreign money markets. Sales or issuances of foreign currency-denominated bonds abroad by residents must be reported to the designated foreign exchange bank. Only issuances by enterprises with unsound financial structures require MOFE approval. Residents may issue money market instruments denominated in won in the foreign money markets with the approval of the MOFE. Foreign institutions may issue collective investment securities in the domestic market, provided that they establish themselves in Korea and submit a prior report to the FSC. However, if collective investment securities are sold through a domestic distributor, a prior report to the FSC is not required. According to the Foreign Exchange Transaction Regulation, residents may issue collective investment securities denominated in foreign currency in foreign markets. However, the issuer must submit a prior report to the designated exchange bank. Residents may issue collective investment securities denominated in domestic currency in foreign markets with the approval of the MOFE. There are no controls on the trading of over the counter-related derivatives if the transac- tions are made through domestic foreign exchange banks. However, transactions in credit derivatives with domestic foreign exchange banks and those directly related to specific capital transactions require BOK no t if ica t ion. Security companies may carry out freely transactions in derivatives —such as forwards, foreign exchange swaps, foreign currency swap options, and interest rate swap options —with nonresident juridical persons. Other transactions in derivatives require BOK approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA 501 Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are controls on all derivative transactions by nonresidents involving the use of won- denominated financing. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Commercial credits in domestic currency of more than W 1 billion a borrower require BOK approval. In addition, commercial credits in foreign currency of more than $10 million or its equivalent by companies require BOK approval. To residents from nonresidents Only commercial credits with maturities of one year or less, granted to enterprises with unsound financial structures, require MOFE approval. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits and loans denominated in domestic currency of more than W 1 billion a borrower require BOK approval. In addition, commercial credits in foreign currency of more than $10 million or its equivalent by companies require BOK approval. To residents from nonresidents Only financial credits with a maturity of one year or less, granted to enterprises with unsound financial structures, require MOFE approval. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Residents, other than banks, must no t ify or obtain approval from the BOK. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Under current regulations, notification to a foreign exchange bank is required. However, investments in excess of $10 million or its equivalent require prior notification to the MOFE when (1) the liabilities of the parent company exceed its total assets, i.e., it has negative net worth; or (2) the subsidiary had a negative net worth greater than $100 million, or half of its capital, or shows a continuous five-year deficit, excluding the accounting year when the business started to operate. In addition, prior notification to the MOFE is required for residents engaged in banking or business to invest in any other business. Equity participation is possible by increasing the amount invested in newly established or existing enterprises. Direct investment by means of mergers and acquisitions is also al- lowed. For the establishment and extension of a domestic branch of a foreign enterprise, approval from the FSC is required for financial institutions; notification to foreign ex- change banks is required for nonfmancial institutions and for the establishment of an office. Investments in public utilities, radio, and television are restricted. Direct investments are allowed in all industries, except those specified on a negative list, including about 0.2% of all industries listed in the Korean standard industrial classification. In general, foreign-financed companies are no longer required to set up partnerships with local firms. There are no controls on the maximum value of foreign investment. Tax privi- leges may be granted to foreign-financed projects that involve advanced technology. Post- investment controls have also been relaxed to treat foreign and local companies equally. All foreign direct investments, except those in industries on the negative list, are subject to a notification requirement. A notification is deemed accepted by a foreign exchange bank unless it advises to the contrary. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 502 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans The acquisition of real estate for business activities requires notification to and approval by the BOK. However, neither approval nor notification is required for the acquisition of over- seas real estate by foreign exchange banks or residents if given as gifts or received through inheritance from nonresidents. Notification to the BOK is required for the acquisition of real estate and its associated rights other than real estate acquired from nonresidents. However, the acquisition of real estate with imported funds requires notification to a foreign exchange bank. No controls apply if the real estate was acquired in compliance with foreign exchange regulations. By residents to nonresidents BOK approval is required for all lending by residents to nonresidents. To residents from nonresidents Notification to the BOK is required for all lending to residents by nonresidents. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions There are prudential regulations on the assets/liabilities compositions of foreign exchange banks. Effective January 4, 2004, foreign exchange banks must maintain short-term assets in for- eign currencies—with a maturity of less than three months—of at least 85% (previously, 80%) against short-term liabilities in foreign currencies, and long-term borrowings in for- eign currencies —with a maturity of one year or longer—of at least 80% (previously, 50%) against long-term liabilities in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange banks must maintain positive maturity mismatches from sight to seven days. Any negative mismatch must not exceed 10% of total foreign currency assets from sight to one month. For reference purposes, foreign exchange banks are required to report to the MOFE the fund ing of maturities exceeding one year and amounts exceeding $50 million or its equivalent. Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Credits and loans in domestic currency of more than W 100 million a borrower require BOK approval. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits The reserve requirements on foreign currency deposit accounts are l%-5% for resident accounts and 1% for nonresident accounts. Nonresidents may acquire up to 10% of stocks without restrictions; acquisition exceeding 10% requires approval of the FSC. The overall net open position (short-hand position) of foreign exchange banks measured by the sum of the net short positions or the sum of the net long positions, whichever is greater, is limited to 20% of the total equity capital at the end of the previous month. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. On nonresident assets and liabilities Effective January 15, 2004, overbought or long positions and, effective January 19, 2004, oversold or short positions of nondeliverable forwards between domestic and foreign financial institutions may not exceed 110% or 90%, respectively, of their positions on January 14 and 16, 2004, respectively. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws Controls imposed by the Securities Laws established by the FSC are as follows: (1) domes- tic securities investments by nonresident foreign nationals are regulated by the Regulations on Securities Business, which include investment ceilings, investment procedures, and the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA 503 management of foreign investors; (2) overseas securities investments by residents are regu- lated by the Regulations on Securities Business, which include securities' eligibility for investment and transaction procedures; and (3) issuance of overseas securities by residents is regulated by the Regulations on Securities Issuance and Disclosure, which include the eligibility of issuers, the use of funds raised by issuance, and the obligations of issuers on reporting. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2004 January 4. The asset/liability ratios that foreign exchange banks must maintain in foreign currencies were increased to 85% from 80% for short-term liabilities with a maturity of less than three months and to at least 80% from 50% for long-term liabilities with a maturity of one year or longer. January 15. The overbought or long positions of nondeliverable forwards between domestic and foreign f inanc ial institutions could not exceed 110% of the position as of January 14, 2004. January 19. The oversold or short positions of nondeliverable forwards between domestic and foreign financial institutions could not exceed 90% of the position as of January 16, 2004. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 5, 1963. Currency The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Effective January 5, 2003, the exchange rate for the Kuwaiti dinar is pegged to the dollar at around a parity rate set at KD 0.29963 per $1 within margins of ±3.5%. Previously, the external value of the dinar was determined on the basis of a special weighted basket of currencies of Kuwait's trade and financial partners, and the Central Bank of Kuwait (CBK) set the exchange rate vis-a-vis the dollar on the basis of the latest market quotations in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Official cover of forward operations Official coverage is extended to forward contracts related to commercial transactions. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Kuwait is a member of the Greater Arab Free Trade Agreement. Effective January 1, 2003, the GCC Customs Union came into effect. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) There is no exchange control, and both residents and nonresidents may freely purchase and sell foreign exchange. All trade with Israel is prohibited; payments may not be made to or received from Israel for any type of transaction. Measures have been taken to implement the relevant UN Security Council resolutions with regard to anti-money laundering operations through financial transfers involving charitable organizations and suspect accounts. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions are imposed on Iraq. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Monetary authorities and merchants registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI) may import and export gold in any form if such gold is at least 18-karat fine; gold jewelry may not be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufactured or unmanufactured, are subject to an import duty of 5%. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 504 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT Resident Accounts 505 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are required for all commercial imports other than fresh fruits and vegeta- bles and wheat and flour. Licenses are issued freely to registered Kuwaiti merchants and companies. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen, a firm in which all partners are Kuwaiti nationals, or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nationals own at least 51% of the stock. Imports of the following goods are prohibited: fireworks; oxygen; gas cylinders; certain steel and asbestos pipes; pork and foodstuffs containing pork; alcoholic beverages; used vehicles over five years old; portable telephones; chewing tobacco; products, machinery, and equipment that operate with ozone-depleting materials; fresh, chilled, frozen, or proc- essed bovine meat and/or its derivatives; ruminant animals imported from EU countries and Turkey; and olive oil (third compression) from Spain. As a precautionary measure, imports of fresh, chilled, or frozen bovine, buffalo, camel, gazelle, goat, and sheep meats from countries affected by ulcerative stomatitis are tempo- rarily prohibited; imports of the above-mentioned meats are permitted from India and Paki- stan. Imports of potentially diseased or disease-carrying animals, plants, or feed from in- fected areas are prohibited. There are also prohibitions on the importation of goods, or goods in certain types of pack- aging, for moral or religious reasons. Effective January 31, 2003, trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora or their derivatives was prohibited in accordance with the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (Environment Public Authority, Decision No. 93/2003). Effective August 31, 2003, sales and purchases of gravel imported from Iraq were allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 506 Open general licenses Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs KUWAIT Imports of industrial equipment, machinery, and their spare parts require industrial licenses valid for one-time use only. Licenses are issued to registered and licensed industrial estab- lishments with the approval of the Industrial Development Commission at the MCI. Private imports of personal objects may be permitted under individual or specific licenses. Regis- tered importers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which are also valid for one year. Government procurement policies grant preferences to Kuwaiti-produced goods up to a price margin of 5% over goods produced in other GCC countries, and 10% over goods produced in non-GCC countries. In accordance with the GCC Customs Union, a minimum tariff of 5% applies to non-GCC imports, while no tariffs apply to imports with at least 40% local value added from other GCC members. Imports of foodstuffs, as well as some machinery and equipment, spare parts, and raw materials, are exempt from import duties. Kuwait applies higher tariffs in industries where domestic producers cater to at least 40% of the local market. Tariff rates d i f fer depending on the domestic value-added content of the products in question. If the domestically produced goods contain at least 20%, 30%, or 40% of domestic value added, protective duties of 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, may be applied to competing im- ports. The degree of protection given by the formula is reduced by 5% in the case of con- sumer goods. The maximum duty imposed on products that compete with locally manufac- tured goods is 100%. Duties on goods imported from member countries of the Greater Arab Free Trade Agreement are being gradually reduced and will be eliminated by 2005. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports of live sheep and poultry, sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh fruits, vegetables in any form, beans, lentils, chickpeas, jams, and cement may be prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only under a special license issued by the MCI. Exports of arms and am- munition also require licenses. Effective November 30, 2003, exports of scrap iron are temporarily prohibited (Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Decisions 206 and 310/2003). With quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT 507 Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature The listing of foreign stocks and bonds on the Kuwait Stock Exchange is subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls apply to banks and financial institutions subject to CBK supervision. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Government approval is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in resident corporations in Kuwait. Foreigners are allowed to own up to 100% of Kuwaiti companies, subject to conditions determined by the Council of Ministers. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Only GCC nationals may purchase real estate of up to 3,000 square meters for private residence purposes. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Yes. No. Borrowing abroad Controls apply to the sale or issue of bonds or other debt securities abroad. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 508 KUWAIT Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits On nonresident assets and liabilities Open foreign exchange position limits may not exceed 10% of a bank's capital, and in some cases, lower limits are set. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement January 5. The exchange rate of the dinar was pegged to the dollar at the rate of KD 0.29963 per $1. Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments January L The GCC Customs Union came into operation. January 31. Trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora or their derivatives was prohibited (Environment Public Authority, Decision No. 93/2003). August 31. Sales and purchases of gravel imported from Iraq were allowed. Exports and export proceeds November 30. Exports of scrap iron were temporarily prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (Position as of March 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 29, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Kyrgyz Republic is the Kyrgyz som. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The off ic ial exchange rate of the som against the dollar is defined as the average-weighted exchange rate of interbank foreign exchange market transactions for the week. The Na- tional Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBKR) participates and intervenes in the interbank foreign exchange market to smooth temporary market fluctuations as necessary. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements may be made in any convertible currency. There are agreements on settlement procedures with China (effective December 24, 2003), Malaysia, and countries of the CIS. There are agreements with the Interstate Bank of the CIS. On June 6, 2003, agreements were signed to ensure the participation of the Interstate Bank of the CIS in the national large settlement system. Administration of control The NBKR has responsibility for managing international reserves and for issuing foreign exchange licenses to commercial banks and to foreign exchange bureaus. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) An agreement has been reached with the Paris Club on the consolidation of the Kyrgyz Republic's bilateral debt, according to which the Kyrgyz Republic's external debt-service payments due from December 6, 2001, through December 5, 2004, will be restructured. Bilateral agreements have been reached with certain Paris Club members (Denmark, France, Germany, Japan, and Russia) and with certain countries that are not Paris Club members (China (July 1, 2003), India (November 3, 2003), Korea, Pakistan (January 31, 2004), and Turkey). Discussions are continuing with the Kuwaiti Fund, which agreed to extend the grace period involved by two years. All gold produced is sold at market prices. The government and the NBKR have priority in purchasing and also the right to participate as sellers in the market. If the government and the NBKR do not exercise that right, the gold is sold either in the domestic market or abroad. Transactions in precious metals (standard and uniform ingots) performed by com- mercial banks are governed by Regulation No. 30/5; amendments and additions governing transactions involving the acceptance of precious metals as collateral were made to this regulation on March 25, 2003. The purchase and sale of uniform ingots of precious metals domestically by natural and juridical persons are governed under Resolution No. 834. 509 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 510 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Imports and exports of foreign currency are not subject to restriction, provided that they are declared to customs for statistical purposes. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. These accounts are permitted and must be registered with the NBKR for statistical purposes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Balances of funds in som accounts opened by resident banks at foreign banks are subject to statistical reporting. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Balances of funds in som accounts opened by resident banks at foreign banks are subject to statistical reporting. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Nonresident Accounts Domestic currency accounts Balances of som accounts opened in Kyrgyz banks are subject to statistical reporting. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are required for imports of alcohol and alcohol products, raw materials and corn- ponents for the production of commercial petroleum products, and tobacco. Negative list Open general licenses Effective January 1, 2003, in accordance with Kyrgyz Republic Government Resolution No. 402, imported medicines require customs stamps and mandatory customs labeling. Effective February 24, 2004, these requirements were lifted (Resolution No. 95). This list includes weapons; ammunition; explosives; poisons; psychotropic narcotics; pub- lications, photographs, photographic plates, negatives, exposed film, video recordings, and graphic works containing information that may harm the political and economic interests of the Republic, state security, or public order; ozone-depleting substances and products; and other articles prohibited and regulated by law. Imports of nuclear materials, technologies, and equipment; special nonnuclear materials; and radioactive sources of ionizing radiation are regulated by the government. Open general and single-use licenses are issued. OGLs are issued for a period of up to one calendar year. Imports under OGLs may be carried out under one or several contracts, and the nature of the transactions must be specified. The following products are subject to licensing: encryption equipment; weapons and military hardware; special equipment for their production; military uniforms, clothing, and accessories; specifications and technical documentation for products intended for military use; gunpowder and explosives; nuclear materials, technologies, equipment, and devices; special nonnuclear materials; sources of radioactive radiation; materials, equipment, technologies, and scientific and technical information that are intended for peaceful purposes but could be used in the creation of weapons of mass destruction; precious metals, from ores to scrap and waste; natural ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 511 precious stones, from powders to recovered materials; precursors; high-potency poisons; hazardous waste; narcotics and psychotropic substances; tobacco; alcohol and alcohol products; ozone-depleting substances and products; and works of art and antiquities that are of significant artistic, historical, scientific, and other value. Quotas are applied on imports of alcohol and alcohol products. Excise taxes apply to ethyl alcohol (wood and grain), alcohol products, tobacco products, jewelry made of precious stones and metals, crystal products, clothing made from fur and skins, gas-operated arms and firearms, petroleum products, coffee, cocoa, and rugs. Effective March 12, 2004, five tariff bands apply (zero, 5%, 10%, 12%, and 15%); the average tariff rate is 5.1%. Previously, four tariff bands applied (zero, 5%, 10%, and 17.5%). Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Export contracts for the following are subject to mandatory registration: fish and fish prod- ucts; grains; soybeans; ethyl alcohol; raw materials for the production of ferrous and non- ferrous metals; crude oil; petroleum products; natural gas; electricity; mineral and chemical fertilizers; casein; wood, sawed timber, and lumber materials; raw hides; cotton; tobacco; wool; flax fiber; cobalt and products thereof; rare metals; aluminum oxide; and ferrous and nonferrous metal waste and scrap. Effective January 23, 2003, exports and reexports of controlled products are subject to mandatory licensing. The list of controlled products includes raw materials and supplies, equipment and tech- nologies, scientific and technical information, work and services, dual-use products and intellectual property that are included in the National Control List of the Kyrgyz Republic and that could be used in the creation of weapons of mass destruction or means for their delivery, as well as other types of weapons and military hardware. Exports of nonferrous metal waste and scrap are subject to licensing. Other exports that require a permit from the government include wild animals and wild plants. Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Yes. Quotas, set annually, apply to alcohol exports. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 512 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Controls on securities market instruments are enforced by the National Securities Market Commission (NSMC) under the government of the Kyrgyz Republic, except with respect to the following: (1) debt securities issued by state and local governments; (2) securities issued or guaranteed by the government of the Kyrgyz Republic, by the NBKR, or by local government authorities, with the exception of certificates that are subject to requirements under Article 2 of the Securities Market law; (3) bills of exchange; and (4) documented payment obligations arising in the course of usual business activities that are valid for a period not exceeding one year. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Acquisitions exceeding 5% of an issuer's statutory capital or 5% of its stock shares must be reported to the NSMC. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase shares in accordance with general regulations provided for by the legislation of the Kyrgyz Republic. An issuer is required to inform the NSMC of an acquisition by any person exceeding 5% of its statutory capital or exceeding 5% of its stock shares. The NSMC must also be informed when a shareholder stake in the issuer's stock shares increases to a level that is a multiple of 5%. Nonresidents may sell shares in accordance with general regulations provided for by the legislation of the Kyrgyz Republic. The holder is required to inform the NSMC of the sale of shares if the shareholder reduces his or her stake to a level that is a multiple of 5% of the stock shares. The issuance and circulation of shares by nonresidents is controlled. Sale or issue abroad by residents Shares to be offered by a resident for sale and/or circulation abroad must be registered in advance in accordance with legislation. Bonds or other debt securities The issuance and circulation of corporate bonds are regulated by the NSMC. The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature also apply. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to prior reporting to the NSMC. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to prior registration with the NSMC. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to prior registration with the NSMC. On collective investment securities Securities invested in joint-stock investment funds and mutual funds are regulated by the Law on Investment Funds. The operations of other funds are not at present regulated by the legislation. Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior to their sale or issue abroad, these instruments must be registered with the NSMC. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits To residents from nonresidents In the absence of a market in these instruments, they are not currently regulated. The NBKR licenses lending activities of financial institutions. There are no controls on these transactions; however, all economic entities must report commercial (trade) credits received and issued to statistical agencies. The MOF is responsible for the management of official external debt. Private loans with a maturity of more than 180 days received by residents from nonresidents must be reported to the NBKR for statistical purposes. The MOF monitors external government debt. Guarantees provided by the Kyrgyz Republic government must be registered with the MOF. The NBKR maintains records on private external debt. Controls on direct investment All inward direct investment enterprises must be registered with the Ministry of Justice and statistical agencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 513 Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases are subject to approval by the Ministry of Justice. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Maintenance of accounts abroad These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Locally issued securities must be denominated in local currency. However, the use of foreign currency, or of payment documents in foreign currency, is permitted in certain instances and according to procedures established by legislation. Investment regulations Abroad by banks These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. In banks by nonresidents These transactions must be reported to the NBKR. Open foreign exchange position limits Limits are established by the NBKR. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Investment funds are not permitted to invest, locally or abroad, more than 10% of their total assets in the securities of a single issuer or to hold more than 25% of the securities of a single issuer. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts March 25. Rules under Regulation No. 30/5 with respect to the use of precious metals as collateral were amended. Changes During 2003 June 6. Agreements were signed to ensure the participation of the Interstate Bank of the CIS in the national large settlement system. July 1. A debt rescheduling agreement was reached with China. November 3. A debt rescheduling agreement was reached with India. December 24. An agreement on settlement procedures was reached with China. January 1. Customs stamps and mandatory customs labeling were applied to imports of medicines. January 23. Exports and reexports of controlled products became subject to mandatory licensing. Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 5 14 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments Changes During 2004 January 31. A debt rescheduling agreement was reached with Pakistan. February 24. The requirement of customs stamps and mandatory customs labeling for im- ported medicine was revoked. March 12. The tariff structure was changed to five bands (zero, 5%, 10%, 12%, and 15%) from four bands (zero, 5%, 10%, and 17.5%). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Republic is the Lao kip. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Effective October 13, 2003, in order to ensure gradual adjustment in the exchange rate, commercial banks are required to adjust their buying and selling rates within the following limits: (1) ceilings of ±0.15% and ±0.30% for the dollar and Thai baht, respectively, of the Bank of the Lao P.D.R. (BOL) daily reference rate; and (2) margins between the buying and selling rates of 1.15% for the dollar and 1% for the Thai baht. Within these limits, commercial banks are free to set their own rates, which vary from the parallel market rates by a very small margin. Effective October 27, 2003, the official reference exchange rate is calculated as the weighted average of the previous day's commercial bank and interbank rates. Previously, la Banque pour le commerce exterieur du Laos (BCEL), the major state- owned commercial bank and the main participant in the official exchange market, had set the commercial bank exchange rate, taking into account movements in the parallel market exchange rates and keeping the spread between the commercial bank and parallel market rates less than 2%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No prescription of currency requirements is imposed on receipts or payments but, in princi- ple, the BOL, the central bank, provides and accepts only dollars, euros, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. This requires formal authorization from the government, although the use of foreign ex- change (principally the dollar and the Thai baht) for domestic payments is widespread. Duty-free shops are authorized to accept payment in foreign currency. The bilateral payments agreement with Vietnam is in the process of being renewed. An inoperative bilateral payments agreement exists with Malaysia. Barter agreements and open accounts Bilateral trading arrangements are maintained with China and Vietnam. Administration of control The BOL is the controlling authority over the foreign exchange market. Commercial banks are the primary participants in this market. Foreign exchange shops are authorized to buy banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks and to sell only banknotes and coins. External bor- rowing by the public sector requires approval by the MOF. External borrowing by the pri- vate sector requires BOL approval. International security restrictions Payments arrears n.a. n.a. 515 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 516 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Effective September 29, 2003, imports and exports of gold and silver exceeding the equivalent of $2,000 require BOL authorization. Previously, all imports and exports required authorization. Effective September 29, 2003, exports of domestic currency in excess of kip 5 million require BOL authorization. Previously, all exports required authorization. Effective September 29, 2003, residents traveling abroad may take out foreign currency up to the equivalent of $2,000. Amounts exceeding this sum require BOL approval and a cus- toms declaration. Previously, this limit was revised periodically. Nonresidents are authorized to take out foreign currency up to the amount they brought in and declared upon arrival. Exports by commercial banks require BOL approval, and must be for approved purposes. Effective September 29, 2003, imports of domestic currency require BOL authorization for amounts exceeding kip 5 million. Previously, all such imports required authorization. Persons entering the country may bring in unlimited amounts of foreign currency, but amounts in excess of the equivalent of $2,000 must be declared to customs at the port of entry. Imports by commercial banks require BOL approval. Resident Accounts Balances in foreign exchange accounts may be used for foreign and domestic transactions, subject to general or specific approval. Withdrawals in cash are limited to $10,000 or its equivalent an account a day; larger withdrawals require BOL approval. Resident accounts may be credited with (1) foreign exchange transferred from overseas; (2) foreign exchange transferred from other foreign exchange accounts; (3) foreign ex- change purchased legally from the domestic market; (4) foreign currency brought into the Lao PDR supported by a customs certificate; and (5) foreign exchange derived from sala- ries, bonuses, travel allowances, family financial assistance, and inheritances supported by proof of source. These accounts may be debited for (1) permitted external payments; (2) domestic pay- ments, where permitted; (3) conversion into domestic currency; (4) purchases of other payment instruments, for example, traveler's checks and bank drafts; and (5) withdrawals in cash for approved purposes. The opening of an account with an amount in excess of $10,000 or its equivalent requires proof of source. Withdrawals in cash of more than $10,000 or its equivalent may be ap- proved by authorized banks but must be reported to the BOL. Held abroad Residents may open accounts abroad in exceptional cases with the approval of the BOL. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 517 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts The regulations applying to credits and debits on resident accounts apply also to nonresi- dent accounts. Balances in foreign exchange accounts may be used for foreign and domes- tic transactions, subject to approval. Daily withdrawals are limited to $10,000 or its equiva- lent a day; larger withdrawals require BOL approval. Commercial banks are required to establish kip accounts for nonresidents of the Lao PDR who obtain kip by the conversion of foreign currency or from other legal sources. Such account holders are permitted to use the accounts to pay for domestic goods and services, or to withdraw funds to spend in the Lao PDR, to make gifts, or to establish trusts. Account holders may convert balances to foreign currency for transfer to their home coun- tries or to third countries. Whenever an account balance is converted to foreign currency, the servicing bank must make sure that the funds were originally converted from foreign currency or obtained as kip from some other legal source. Blocked accounts n.a. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Margin deposits are required against LCs; the rates are set by the BCEL and other commer- cial banks. Proof of payment of import duties is required. Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are issued automatically, but are subject to indicative limits on the overall level of imports. Positive list Negative list Yes. Yes. Licenses with quotas Quotas are imposed on imports of cement, fuel, steel bars, and vehicles. Import taxes and/or tariffs The tariff structure is composed of six rates (5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 30%, and 40%). The lowest rates apply to imports of raw materials, certain inputs, and certain essential con- sumer goods. The highest rates of 30% and 40% apply to luxury consumer goods, certain beverages, and tobacco. The Lao PDR applies the ASEAN free-trade agreement; imports from ASEAN countries are subject to CEPT rates of 5% to 30%. In addition to CEPT rates, a rate of 40% applies to luxury consumer goods. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Income from exports of goods and services must be repatriated within 120 days from deliv- ery at the border (date of f.o.b. shipment) except for parts of the income (1) used for exter- nal loan repayments approved by the BOL, (2) used for payment of a letter of credit ap- proved by the BOL, or (3) specified in a contract between the foreign investor and the government. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution _ 5 18 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC Surrender requirements Receipts from exports of wood and wood products must be surrendered to state-owned commercial banks after all payments due to the government have been settled, as follows: 80% for exports of sawed timber and 60% for exports of wood products. Financing requirements Documentation requirements n.a. n.a. Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for mining, timber, and processed and semiprocessed wood products. These licenses are issued by the trade department under the Vientiane prefecture and provincial government authorities. Quotas apply only to timber. Exports of logs are prohibited. Taxes are levied on selected products. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Investment-related payments Payments for travel Personal payments Foreign workers' wages Other payments Payments for imports and direct import/export-related services, such as transportation, insurance, and warehousing, are permitted. Remittances of profits, dividends, interest, and other payments related to foreign invest- ment are permitted. Foreign exchange shops may sell up to $2,000 or its equivalent. Application for larger amounts must be made to commercial banks with supporting documentation. Foreign exchange shops may sell up to $2,000 or its equivalent for medical treatment or education abroad. Applications for larger amounts must be made to commercial banks with supporting documentation. Remittances of wages and salaries of foreign personnel associated with foreign investment are permitted. No restrictions apply to the remittance of interest and amortization relating to foreign debts incurred with official approval. Application for payments not explicitly mentioned in Arti- cle No. 5 of the Decree on Management of Foreign Currency and Precious Metal may be submitted with documents supporting the need for foreign exchange. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from invisibles are, in practice, treated in the same way as proceeds from mer- chandise exports. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions All capital transactions require BOL authorization. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are controls on all transactions in capital and money market instruments. There are controls on derivatives transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 519 Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents These are subject to BOL approval. Approved loans must be registered and the perform- ance of the loan, from disbursement to fu ll repayment through the banking system, must be reported to the BOL. To residents from nonresidents These are subject to BOL approval. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These are subject to BOL approval. To residents from nonresidents These are subject to BOL approval. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Direct investments are subject to the Law on the Promotion and Management of Foreign Investment. Investment by residents abroad requires approval by the relevant authority; based on this authorization, the BOL approves the export of capital. Investment abroad with funds bor- rowed from a domestic commercial bank is prohibited. Foreign investment is not permitted in fields detrimental to national security, the environ- ment, public health, or the national culture. Foreign investment may be wholly foreign- owned. Joint ventures require a minimum contribution of 30% of equity by a foreign inves- tor. Foreign investors may repatriate earnings and capital from foreign investment at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of repatriation. Foreign investors may borrow revolving capital only from commercial banks in the Lao PDR. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investors may lease and make improvements on land and may transfer leasehold interests. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Authorized commercial banks may open accounts abroad. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These are subject to BOL approval. Approved loans must be registered and the perform- ance of the loan, from disbursement to fu ll repayment through the banking system, must be reported to the BOL. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 520 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities Effective September 10, 2003, if a bank holds a net open position in any foreign currency in excess of 15% of its tier I capital or an overall open position in excess of 20% of its tier I capital at the end of a business day, the bank must sell the surplus or purchase the shortage of each foreign currency from the interbank market on the following business day. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Exchange arrangement Changes During 2003 October 13. In order to ensure gradual adjustment in the exchange rate, commercial banks were required to adjust their buying and selling rates within the following limits: (1) ceil- ings of ±0.15% and ±0.30% for the dollar and Thai baht, respectively, of the BOL's daily reference rate; and (2) margins between the buying and selling rates of 1.15% for the dollar and 1% for the Thai baht. October 27. The BOL began calculating the reference rate as the weighted average of the previous day's commercial bank and interbank rates. Arrangements for payments and receipts September 29. Exports and imports of gold and silver exceeding the equivalent of $2,000 required BOL authorization; previously, all amounts required authorization. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions September 29. Exports and imports of domestic currency exceeding kip 5 million required BOL authorization. Previously, all exports and imports required authorization. September 29. The limit on foreign currency that residents may export was increased to the equivalent of $2,000. Previously, the limit was subject to frequent revision. September 10. If a bank holds a net open position in any foreign currency in excess of 15% of its tier I capital or an overall open position in excess of 20% of its tier I capital at the end of a business day, the bank was required to sell the surplus or purchase the shortage of each foreign currency from the interbank market on the following business day. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 10, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Latvia is the Latvian lats. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The lats is pegged to the SDR at the rate of LVL 0.7997 per SDR 1. The Bank of Latvia (BOL) quotes daily the fixing rates of the lats against 33 convertible currencies and the price of gold. These rates are used for accounting purposes and are valid through the next day. The BOL also quotes real-time buying and selling rates for the currencies in the SDR basket (i.e., dollars, euros, pounds sterling, and yen). The spread between the buying and selling rate is 2%. No. No. All forward transactions may be conducted in the interbank market, with most liquidity being made available for maturities of up to one year. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements n.r. Inoperative Inoperative bilateral payments agreements are maintained with Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan. Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Government decisions adopted by the cabinet of ministers and approved by parliament prevail in foreign exchange and trade matters, but the authority to issue regulations govern- ing foreign exchange transactions has been delegated to the BOL. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks and enterprises licensed by the BOL and the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. On November 4, 2003, Latvian authorities notified the IMF of a series of measures taken to freeze the accounts of members of Al-Qaida, the Taliban, and other terrorist groups. These measures have been taken in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 1267 (1999), 1333 (2000), and 1390 (2002). Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or A license is required, trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 521 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 522 LATVIA Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident natural persons and enterprises are allowed to hold foreign currencies in domestic or foreign bank accounts and to use these funds for domestic payments. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Nonresident natural persons and enterprises are permitted to hold bank accounts in Latvia denominated in either foreign or domestic currency. Yes. Yes. Blocked accounts There are no blocked accounts. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No licensing requirements apply except for imports of alcohol (excluding beer), tobacco products, fue l, and other items that pose a health or safety risk. Licensing is automatic except for pyrotechnic products, arms and ammunition, combat vehicles, and prepared explosives. The processing time for license applications is no more than 10 business days, and license fees reflect only processing costs. Under the Law on Customs Duty (Tariffs), two specific tariffs apply to sugar and ciga- rettes. For nonagricultural goods, the average basic ad valorem tariff rate is 1.82%, and the average MFN rate is 1.11%; for agricultural goods, the average basic rate is 16.61%, and the average MFN rate is 11.39%. Some goods are exempt from customs duties. Latvia maintains trade and economic cooperation agreements providing for MFN status with the following: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, the EFTA, Estonia, the EU, Hungary, Lithuania, Moldova, Poland, Russia, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LATVIA 523 Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Foreign investors are not allowed to hold more than 49% of shares in companies organizing raffles and gambling, except for investors from the EU, associated countries, and countries with which Latvia has concluded bilateral agreements. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) The purchase of buildings is permitted. The purchase of land is not restricted, except for areas of land near borders and environmentally protected areas. Land to be used for agricul- tural and forestry purposes may be bought only if one-half of the paid share capital of the company (1) belongs to citizens of Latvia or to citizens of countries with which Latvia has an agreement on promotion of foreign investment; (2) belongs to a group of the previous categories; or (3) is a public joint-stock company, shares of which are quoted on the stock exchange. No. On April 3, 2003, restrictions on lending to nonresidents were lifted. Previously, exposure (including lending) to any Zone B country (except Estonia and Lithuania) was limited to 25% of a bank's own funds. Total exposure to Zone B countries (except Estonia and Lithuania) must not exceed 200% of a bank's own funds. Open foreign exchange position limits The open foreign currency position is limited to 10% of capital for any single foreign currency and 20% of own funds for all foreign currencies. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 524 LATVIA Provisions specific to institutional investors Effective April 29, 2003, a 10% limit on the technical reserves that insurance companies may invest abroad without permission no longer applies. Previously, insurance companies were not allowed to invest more than 10% of their technical reserves abroad without the prior permission of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws A mutual fund may invest only in demand and time deposits in banks licensed in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, the EU, the EEA, or an OECD member country. A closed-end fund may invest in real estate located and registered only in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, the EU, the EEA, or an OECD member country. Arrangements for payments and receipts Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Changes During 2003 November 4. The Latvian authorities notified the IMF of a series of measures taken to freeze the accounts of members of Al-Qaida, the Taliban, and other terrorist groups. These measures have been taken in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 1267 (1999), 1333 (2000), and 1390 (2002). April 3. The restrictions on lending to nonresidents were lifted. Previously, exposure to most Zone B countries was subject to a limit of 25% of a bank's own funds, with total ex- posure subject to a limit of 200%. Provisions specific to institutional investors April 29. The 10% limit on the technical reserves that insurance companies may invest abroad without permission was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position as of March 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese pound. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Exchange rates are market determined, but the authorities may announce buying or selling rates for certain currencies and intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly con- ditions in the exchange market. In practice, the exchange rate remains within a very narrow band vis-a-vis the dollar. Banks are allowed to engage in spot transactions in any currency except Israeli new sheqalim. No. No. Forward operations are allowed, provided that a m in imum margin deposit of 20% is made for each operation. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Lebanon applies the Arab Free Trade Zone Agreement and the Lebanese-Syrian Trade Agreement. Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts are subject to anti-money laundering laws. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 525 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 526 LEBANON Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts are subject to anti-money laundering laws. Nonresident individuals, nonbanks, and nonfmancial entities may hold onshore accounts in Lebanese pounds freely. Nonresident banks and financial entities are not allowed to have debit or credit accounts in Lebanese pounds (including fiduciary accounts) with resident banks and financial institutions except for (1) treasury bills and Banque du Liban (BDL) certificate of deposit accounts after obtaining approval from the BDL; and (2) guarantees issued by nonresident banks against loans in Lebanese pounds that are for commercial or investment activities in Lebanon. These accounts are subject to anti-money laundering laws. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontarifF measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. In general, import licenses are mainly issued for health, security, and fraud prevention rea- sons, and apply to about 3% (in value terms) of all goods imported into Lebanon. Licenses generally apply to imports of certain animal and plant products, medically hazardous sub- stances, arms, ammunition, explosive materials, and certain telecommunications equipment and petroleum products, as well as a group of industrial products. Import prohibitions apply to a list of products for the protection of health and the environ- ment as well as for safety and security reasons. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Ad- ditionally, certain commercial entities listed under the Arab Boycott List are banned from trading with Lebanon. Lebanon uses the Harmonized System Tariff, 2002 version. Customs valuation is on the basis of c.i.f. value; customs duties are generally ad valorem. The WTO valuation principle is also applied. The ad valorem rates vary between zero and 70%. There are preferential duty rates for goods imported for industrial, agricultural, or public use. In addition to ad valorem duties, which apply to about 93% of products, the following other methods are used: (1) the bracket-based calculation in the case of cars, in which the value of a car is divided into two brackets and the total duty is the sum of the duties applied at each rate; (2) duties calculated on the basis of units of measure, such as weigty or volume (e.g., gaso- line); and (3) a combined duty calculated on an ad valorem and specific basis, so that the higher amount is collected (e.g., tropical fruits and chickens). In addition, excise duties are collected on alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, cars, cement, and fuels. Lebanon applies the Arab Free Trade Area Convention and has bilateral free trade agree- ments with Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, the Syrian Arab Republic, and the United Arab Emirates. A VAT of 10% is levied on all goods and services, whether imported or produced domestically, except for some exempted goods and services. State import monopoly Imports of some goods are reserved for the government. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 527 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of a limited number of products are prohibited for reasons of biodiversity conserva- tion, forest conservation, ecology, security, and health. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers These transactions are subject to anti-money laundering legislation. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Limits are imposed on the acquisition of shares in companies, depending on the nature of the company. Nonresident banks, financial institutions, and money dealers must obtain approval from the BDL when purchasing treasury securities or BDL certificates of deposit denominated in Lebanese pounds. Funds used to purchase treasury securities or certificates of deposit must originally have been deposits in foreign currencies that are converted to Lebanese pounds specifically for this purpose. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The acquisition of more than 10% of the shares of an investment company is subject to prior BDL approval. Mutual fund managers are required to report the acquisition of more than 10% of the total value of a mutual fund to the BDL and the Banking Control Commission. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The promotion of and trading in foreign collective investment securities are subject to prior BDL approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 528 LEBANON Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents There are no controls on purchases of derivatives or any financial instruments from abroad. However, effective March 8, 2004, banks, unlike other financial institutions and brokerage firms, may engage in derivative transactions locally or abroad for hedging purposes only. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing purchase abroad by residents apply. Controls on credit operations Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Nonresident f inanc ial institutions may issue guarantees against loans made in Lebanese pounds if the loans are related to investment or commercial activities executed in Lebanon. Foreign investments in some sectors are subject to specified ceilings and, in some cases, to prior authorization. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents All foreigners must obtain a license from the Council of Ministers to acquire real estate exceeding a certain maximum area. In addition, a ceiling is imposed on the total area that may be acquired in the capital city as well as in various Lebanese districts. Controls on personal capital transactions These transactions are permitted freely, provided that anti-money laundering regulations are followed. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Prior BDL approval is required for resident banks and financial institutions to issue bonds locally or abroad. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks in Lebanon are not allowed to open debit or credit accounts in Lebanese pounds for nonresident f inanc ial institutions. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Effec t ive February 24, 2004, banks and financial institutions are prohibited from lending to nonresidents, with the exception of purchases of (1) sovereign bonds of Group of 10 coun- tries; and (2) bonds with at least a BBB rating by Standard and Poor's or an equivalent rating of another internationally recognized rating agency; for corporate bonds, the issuing corporation must be supervised by a country with a sovereign rating of BBB or equivalent. Also effective this date, the exposure of a bank or financial institution to one economic group may not exceed 5% of its equity; and exposure to bonds may not exceed 25% of its equity. A reserve requirement of 10% applies to all foreign exchange-denominated deposits, certificates of deposit, bonds, and loans contracted from the financial sector and whose remaining maturity is one year or less. Prior BDL approval is required for banks to acquire shares in financial intermediaries abroad. Prior BDL approval is required for banks to acquire shares in financial intermediaries abroad. Acquisition by a resident or nonresident of shares in a bank is subject to prior au- thorization from the Central Council of the BDL in the following cases only: (1) the shares to be acquired represent more than 5% of total shares or voting rights; (2) the purchaser already holds more than 5% of total shares or voting rights; or (3) the purchaser or seller of the shares is a member of the board of directors of the bank involved. Effective January 7, 2004, the ceiling on foreign ownership of nonbank financial institutions was lifted (previ- ously, a ceiling of two-thirds of shares applied). Foreign banks may establish fu l ly owned branches, subject to BDL approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON 529 Open foreign exchange position limits The net open foreign exchange position is limited to 1% of the net Tier I capital and the global position is limited to 40% of net Tier I capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2004 Capital transactions Controls on derivatives and other instruments March 8. Banks' derivative transactions, whether locally or abroad, were limited to hedging purposes only. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 7. The ceiling on foreign ownership of shares of nonbank financial institutions was lifted (previously, a ceiling of two-thirds of shares applied). February 24. Banks and financial institutions were prohibited from lending to nonresidents, with the exception of purchase of bonds of a certain rating or from certain countries. February 24. The exposures of a bank or financial institution to one economic group and to bonds were limited to 5% and 25% of its equity, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 5, 1997. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lesotho is the Lesotho loti. The South African rand is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The loti is pegged to the South African rand at M 1 per R 1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations through their correspondent banks abroad at rates quoted by the latter. Forward exchange cover, however, is not common in Lesotho. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements by or with residents of CMA member countries with all countries outside the CMA may be made to and from a nonresident account in rand or in any other foreign currency. Use of foreign exchange among residents Yes. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Lesotho is a member of the CMA, within which payments are unrestricted, except that transactions must be reported for statistical and customs purposes. In its relations with countries outside the CMA, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are largely similar to those applied by Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland. The Central Bank of Lesotho (CBL) controls foreign exchange transactions and delegates to commercial banks the authority to approve certain types of current payments up to estab- lished limits. Permits are issued by the Department of Customs and Excise based on the recommendation of the Department of Trade and Industry. Licenses for financial institu- tions accepting deposits, insurance companies, brokers, and agents are issued by the CBL. No. No. Only authorized dealers may trade in gold, but anyone may hold gold. Controls on external trade Exports of gold from the CMA by individuals are prohibited. 530 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 531 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of domestic currency from Lesotho are prohibited. Exports of foreign currency from the CMA by residents are prohibited; visitors may reexport the unspent portion of foreign currency brought into the country. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Effective June 27, 2003, residents may deposit up to the equivalent of M 250,000 in foreign exchange accounts with an authorized dealer in Lesotho. Previously, approval was required to open these accounts. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. No. No. No. Nonresident Accounts Funds in an emigrant's blocked loti account may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments approved by the CBL. The free transfer of income from an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to M 300,000 a family unit a year. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Payments are not normally allowed before the date of shipment, except with prior approval or special authorization from the CBL. Authorized dealers may permit, without the CBL's approval, advance payments of up to 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods if suppliers require it or if it is normal practice in the trade concerned. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 532 LESOTHO Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Lesotho is a member of the SACU; all imports originating in any country of the SACU are unrestricted, except certain food items. Imports from countries outside the SACU are usu- ally licensed in conformity with SACU import regulations. Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make payments for imports from outside the SACU. With certain exceptions, imports from outside the SACU must be licensed and conform to a negative list (e.g., ammunition, flora and fauna, and illegal drugs). Licenses with quotas Some food imports from countries within the SACU are subject to import licensing. Import taxes and/or tariffs Lesotho applies the external customs tariffs of the SACU. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Effective June 27, 2003, residents may retain their export proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized dealers for six months, after which balances have to be surren- dered to authorized dealers. Previously, there was only a requirement that unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be surrendered within six months of the date of the export transaction. A state-supported export credit scheme is in effect, involving credit guarantees and pre- and post-shipment credits. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Certain exports are subject to licensing for revenue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is limited to the exportation of diamonds. Most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Profit and dividend transfers are not restricted, provided the investment funds were not obtained through excessive use of local borrowing facilities. Quantitative limits Emigrants may transfer up to the equivalent of M 300,000 of earnings on blocked assets. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits The limit for an adult is the equivalent of M 130,000 a year and the limit for a child under 12 years of age is M 40,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Larger allowances may be obtained for business travel. Personal payments Quantitative limits For study abroad, the limits are the equivalent of M 160,000 a year for a single student or M 180,000 a year for a student accompanied by a spouse who is not studying. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO 533 Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits The limit for credit card use abroad is the equivalent of M 20,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered within 30 days of the date of accrual, unless an exemption is obtained. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Effective June 27, 2003, nonresidents may invest freely in Lesotho if the maturity of the investment exceeds 365 days. CBL notification is required for nonresidents to acquire securities of any kind, regardless of maturity. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls apply on all these transactions. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents These instruments are not available in Lesotho. Export credits are available for up to six months; in certain circumstances, the maturity can be extended by six months. Longer-term credits require exchange control approval. To residents from nonresidents These credits require exchange control approval. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment These credits require prior approval. However, wholly nonresident-owned subsidiaries may borrow locally up to 100% of the total shareholder's investment. Prior approval is required to ensure that repayments and servicing of the loans do not dis- rupt the balance of payments and that the level of interest rates paid is reasonable in terms of prevailing international rates. The rulings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporary resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Effective June 27, 2003, residents are free to invest abroad through domestic banks up to the equivalent of M 250,000 per person. Subject to CBL approval, resident corporations and businesses are allowed to invest abroad up to the equivalent of M 50 million in SACU countries or M 30 million in other countries. Previously, outward direct investment was prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 534 LESOTHO Inward direct investment Effective June 27, 2003, nonresidents may invest freely in Lesotho if the maturity of the investment exceeds 365 days. However, nonresidents may acquire securities of any kind, regardless of maturity, only upon the approval of the CBL. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior approval is required. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Prior approval is required for these transactions. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Emigrants may transfer abroad up to the equivalent of M 300,000 a year. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Prior approval is required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Limits of 10% a currency and 20% overall exposure apply. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Yes. The limit is up to 20% of assets under management. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2003 Resident accounts June 27. Resident individuals were permitted to deposit up to the equivalent of M 250,000 in a foreign exchange account with an authorized dealer in Lesotho. Exports and export proceeds June 27. Residents were permitted to retain their export proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized dealers for six months. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments June 27. Nonresidents were allowed to invest freely in Lesotho if the maturity of the in- vestment exceeds 365 days and requires CBL notification to acquire securities of any kind, regardless of maturity. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on direct investment LESOTHO 535 June 27. Residents were allowed to freely invest abroad through domestic banks up to the equivalent of M 250,000 per person, and, subject to CBL approval, resident corporations and businesses were allowed to invest abroad up to the equivalent of M 50 million in SACU countries or M 30 million in other countries. June 27. Nonresidents were allowed to freely invest in Lesotho if the maturity of the investment exceeds 365 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Liberia is the Liberian dollar. The U.S. dollar is also legal tender and circulates freely. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The Liberian dollar is market determined, and all foreign exchange dealers, including banks, are permitted to buy and sell currencies, including the U.S. dollar, at market- determined exchange rates. The Central Bank of Liberia (CBL) reserves the right to inter- vene to counter speculative movements. Liberia participates in the W-ERM II of the WAMZ, which requires that the CBL maintain the spot exchange rate between the Liberian dollar and the U.S. dollar within margins of ±15% around a central rate. However, the CBL has yet to implement these measures. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Yes. Yes. No. Regulations on export and import licenses are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI). International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Yes. Yes. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Land, Mines, and Energy; import licenses are issued freely, but export licenses are granted restrictively. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 536 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA Resident Accounts 537 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Preshipment inspection is required to ascertain the country of origin, the quality, the quan- tity, and the value of all goods to be shipped. Both final and intermediate goods are subject to inspection, except for imports with an f.o.b. value of less than the equivalent of US$3,000. There is no general system of import control, but the importation of some items, including safety matches, electrode welding rods, and liquefied petroleum gas, is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions. Licensing requirements are liberally enforced. Imports of arms, ammunition, and explosives require prior licenses. In addition, imports of certain goods (for example, narcotics, other than for medicinal purposes) are prohibited. Licenses to import inexpensive, widely consumed varieties of rice are issued to private distributors by the MCI. The importation of more expensive rice is not subject to official controls. Import taxes and/or tariffs The nominal average tariff rate is 11.7%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. n.r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 538 Export licenses Export taxes LIBERIA Licenses generally are issued freely, including those for agricultural products, to ensure certification of quality and origin. Export taxes are imposed on processed and unprocessed goods at rates of zero and 2.5%, respectively, and on diamonds and precious metals at a rate of 4%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no controls on these transfers. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requ iremen ts Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market ins trumen ts Controls on derivatives and other ins t rumen ts Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. No. n.r. No. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of Acceptance: June 21, 2003. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Libya is the Libyan dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Effective June 15, 2003, the Libyan dinar is pegged to the SDR at LD 1 per SDR 0.5175 (previously, it was pegged at LD 1 per SDR 0.608). Effective April 1, 2003, the margin on sales of foreign exchange is 1% (previously, 2%). Effective June 15, 2003, the tax on private sector foreign exchange transactions no longer applies. Previously, a tax of 15% was levied on foreign exchange purchases, and a subsidy of 15% was granted on foreign exchange sales. The difference between the tax revenue and subsidy expenditure was used to finance the Great Man-Made River Project (GMR). The following were exempt from this tax: (1) all transactions in foreign exchange in the budget, including oil revenues; (2) all transactions made by public enterprises; and (3) the transferable portion of the salaries of nonresidents employed by the Libyan government. In addition, a fee of LD 0.5 is applied to cash transactions to encourage the use of noncash operations, such as LCs and bank transfers. Exchange subsidy Effective June 15, 2003, the subsidy of 15% for foreign exchange sales by the private sector no longer applies. Forward exchange market No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements All transactions with Israel are prohibited. Transactions with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Use of foreign exchange among residents Transactions may be executed through the use of the Libyan dinar as a middle currency in determining the exchange rates. Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Agreements are maintained with Algeria, Malta, Morocco, and Tunisia. Outstanding bal- ances are settled in convertible currencies 15 days after the end of each month, with the exception of balances vis-a-vis Malta, which are settled every 90 days. The Central Bank of Libya (CBL) administers exchange controls and has delegated some powers to authorized banks. The General People's Congress regulates policy on imports and exports, which is executed by the Secretariat of Economy and Commerce (SEC). No. No. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. 539 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 540 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency The CBL imports processed and unprocessed gold and precious metals; it also sells gold bars to domestic goldsmiths for manufacture at prices announced from time to time. The gold must be processed before it may be sold to the public. Imports of unworked gold are subject to a duty of 15%. Residents and nonresidents are not allowed to export Libyan currency. Residents and nonresidents may export any amount of foreign exchange for personal, non- commercial purposes through authorized banks. To control money laundering, ceilings of the equivalent of $5,000 and $10,000 a transaction are enforced on the purchase of foreign exchange in cash and traveler's checks, respectively. Foreign exchange converted into Libyan dinars by visiting tourists may be reconverted upon departure. On imports Domestic currency Residents and nonresidents are not allowed to import Libyan currency. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Individual residents are allowed to keep foreign currencies in domestic bank accounts and to transfer balances abroad without restriction. Exporters are allowed to retain foreign ex- change earnings in a special account that may be used to finance imports of raw materials, spare parts, and machinery needed for export production. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents who are employed in the country are permitted to open these accounts, which may be credited with their legitimate earnings. All other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior approval of the CBL. Funds brought in by nonresident contractors undertaking contracts in their own names must be kept with an authorized bank. Payments received by contractors for contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are subject to the prior ap- proval of the CBL after submission of the prescribed evidence, but, in general, remittances are permitted up to the net-of-tax amount specified in the contract. Funds brought in by nonresidents may be reexported if not used, after submission of evidence. Accounts held by foreign contractors licensed under Law No. 5 (1997) for the promotion of foreign capital investment are exempt from any restrictions. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 541 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Effective June 15, 2003, this requirement no longer applies. Previously, authorized banks could not open an LC for private sector importers or for public enterprises without an advance import deposit equal to at least 50% of the value of the import. Authorized banks may open LCs without approval from the CBL. Before an LC is estab- lished, a marine insurance policy from a local insurance company must be submitted. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, provided that a firm contract exists. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs While import licenses are not required, importers may import only the types of products that are in accordance with their business specialty. With the exception of strategic goods (i.e., nine essential food items, medicines, insecticides, petroleum products, tobacco, and gold), the importation of which is retained by public corporations, all other goods may be imported by either public or private entities. Imports of the following are prohibited: Arabic lounge materials; candles; electro-oil heat- ers; hand brooms; iron, plastic, and wooden pipes; plastic barrels and bottles; plastic cov- ers; Portland cement; school supplies; telephone equipment; unpainted pottery; medical alcohol; organic and urea fertilizers; potash; soap bars; canned juices; chocolate not made with cacao; green vegetables; harissa; industrial fruit powder; mineral water; olive oil; po- tato chips; eggs; poultry; pork meat and fats; preserved meats and vegetables; alcoholic beverages; used equipment and machinery; tractors; used cars; luxury cars; and yachts. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Importers are required to deal directly with produc- ers abroad and not through intermediaries. Imports are subject to customs duties and surcharges, the latter being 10% of the applicable customs duties. All products from Arab countries are exempt from customs duties, pro- vided domestic value added is at least 40%. Imports by commercial public enterprises are exempt from customs duties. Taxes collected through the exchange system Effective June 15, 2003, these taxes no longer apply. Previously, foreign exchange purchases by the private sector were subject to a 15% tax. State import monopoly A state-owned company controlled by the CBL has a monopoly on the importation of gold and precious metals. This company is, however, currently under liquidation. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be repatriated within three months of shipment. Surrender requirements Exporters are allowed to retain up to 100% of nonhydrocarbon earnings. Financing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses All exports require the opening of LCs. In general, exporters do not need export licenses but must register with the SEC and supply on a regular basis the relevant documentation on their exports. Exports of electricity, hides, nonmonetary gold (other than for processing abroad), paper products, school supplies, scrap metals, and telecommunication services are prohibited. Exports or reexports of vegetable oils, wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, coffee, tea, sugar, and tomato paste —all of which are subsidized products —are prohibited. All exports to Israel are prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution _542 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Without quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for raw wool, hides and skins, and agricultural products. n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Investment-related payments Payments for travel Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Profits generated by foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than the equivalent of LD 200,000 and that at least 51% of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Profits generated by foreign capital invested in projects set up within the context of Law No. 5 and approved by the Foreign Investment Board may also be transferred without restriction. Residents are allowed to purchase foreign exchange for tourism from authorized banks up to the equivalent of $10,000 in traveler's checks or $5,000 in cash. Yes. Nonresidents employed by the state, state-owned enterprises, or foreign companies may remit the entire amount of their net salaries. Effective June 15, 2003, these nonresident workers' salaries are fu l ly exempt from the GMR tax. Previously, up to 65% of their total net salary each month was exempt from the GMR tax if their work contracts did not specify that lodging, board, or both would be provided free of charge by the employer; and up to 75% of their total net salary was exempt if their work contracts specified that the employer would provide both lodging and board free of charge at work sites in remote areas. Staff of UN agencies, embassies, consulates, and medical institutions are exempt from these regulations. Other payments Prior approval Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Purchase abroad of these instruments by residents requires approval. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 543 Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.a. Controls on credit operations Public enterprises are allowed to sell any amount of foreign exchange they earn to open or settle credit through the banking system, provided they report the sources and uses of the foreign exchange. Commercial credits Residents must obtain prior CBL approval to borrow funds from abroad. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign participation in industrial ventures set up after March 20, 1970, is permitted on a minority basis, but only if it leads to increased production in excess of local requirements, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the surplus production. Full foreign ownership is permitted, however, in ventures established in the context of Law No. 5 and approved by the Foreign Investment Board. Approval is granted for projects that lead to domestic job creation or training, use of local raw materials, transfers of technology, and inflows of foreign currencies. Foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than the equivalent of LD 200,000 and that at least 51% of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Capital invested in projects set up in the context of Law No. 5 and approved by the Foreign Investment Board may also be transferred freely to the country of origin. Residents must have prior permission from the Committee of the People's Bureau for For- eign Affairs and International Economic Cooperation to purchase real estate abroad. Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2003 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement June 21. The Libyan Arab Jamarihiya accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF's Articles of Agreement. Exchange arrangement April L The margin on sales of foreign exchange was reduced to 1% from 2%. June 15. The dinar was devalued by 15% to LD 1 per SDR 0.5175 from LD 1 per SDR 0.608. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution J44 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Imports and import payments Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers June 15. The GMR tax on private foreign exchange transactions was eliminated. June 15. The 15% exchange subsidy on foreign sales by the private sector was eliminated. June 15. The import deposit requirements were eliminated. Previously, authorized banks could not open an LC for private sector importers or for public enterprises without an advance import deposit equal to at least 50% of the value of the import. June 15. The 15% tax on foreign exchange purchases by the private sector was eliminated. June 15. Nonresident workers' wages were made fu l ly exempt from the GMR tax. Previ- ously, up to 65% of total net salary per month was exempt from the GMR tax if the work- ers' contracts did not specify that lodging and/or board would be provided free by the em- ployer; and the exemption was up to 75% if the contracts specified that lodging and/or board would be provided free of charge by the employer at work sites in remote areas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA (Position as of June 30, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 3, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of L i thuan ia is the L i thuan ian litas. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Currency board arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Administration of control The litas is pegged to the euro at the rate of LTL 3.4528 per €1. On June 27, 2004, L i thua- nia adopted the ERM II of the EMS. However, the authorities still maintain the currency board arrangement without mod if ica t ion. No. No. Any natural or jur id ical person may enter into a forward exchange contract with a bank operating in Lithuania or in a foreign country without restriction. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The payment system, payment instruments, and the relationship among the participants of the payment system in Lithuania are governed by the Law on Payments. The euro may be used for domestic cash and noncash payments and settlements, and for- eign exchange may be used for all noncash domestic settlements, provided that the parties involved agree thereto. Correspondent accounts exist between the Bank of Lithuania (BOL) and the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU. These accounts need not be used for payments originating after October 1992. There is an agreement between the BOL and the National Bank of Belarus. Ruble-denominated correspondent accounts maintained with the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU have been closed and are in the process of being settled. Parliament has the legislative authority in foreign exchange and trade matters. A banking law has delegated to the BOL the authority to issue regulations governing foreign exchange transactions. All foreign exchange transactions involving domestic currency must be ef- fected through authorized credit institutions licensed by the BOL. Authorized banks are allowed to transact among themselves, as well as with residents and nonresidents of Lithuania; the BOL may limit on a case-by-case basis the types of transactions that may be conducted. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions In accordance with UN Resolution Nos. 1333 and 1373, sanctions are imposed against individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. 545 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 546 LITHUANIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Imports and exports of domestic or foreign banknotes exceeding LTL 10,000 or its equiva- lent must be declared. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Natural and juridical persons must report the opening and closing of these accounts to the tax authorities. n.r. n.r. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Approval required Approval is required if the legislation of the other country requires approval. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency There is no distinction between resident and nonresident accounts in this regard. Blocked accounts Certain accounts are blocked by government resolutions in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. There are no quantitative restrictions or licensing requirements on imports, except for health and national security reasons and as noted below. Certain food products, such as semiprocessed meat products, poultry, and fish, are subject to licensing. Certain agricultural goods and alcoholic beverages are subject to duties, and certain quantitative restrictions are used to protect Lithuania's cultural heritage. Alcoholic beverages and tobacco, for which the licensing requirement was revoked on January 1, 2004, may be imported only by traders registered with the government, but import quantities are unrestricted. There are licensing requirements governing trade in strategic goods and technology and certain oil products. A three-tier tariff structure exists, consisting of (1) a "conventional" rate applied to coun- tries granted MFN status; (2) a "preferential" rate applied to countries with which Lithuania has a foreign trade agreement; and (3) an "autonomous" rate that is usually 5% higher than the MFN rate and is applied to all other countries. Imports entering under a majority of tariff lines are duty-free; and most other tariff lines carry duty rates of 20% or less; how- ever, rates on agricultural products range as high as 87%. Some non-ad valorem duty rates remain in effect. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA 547 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes There are licensing requirements governing trade in strategic goods. There are also licens- ing requirements governing exports of certain oil products, but without quotas. Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Foreign investments in the following areas are prohibited: (1) national security and defense, except for investments by foreign entities that meet the criteria for European and transatlan- tic integration, provided that they are approved by the State Defense Council; and (2) the organization of lotteries. No. On January 23, 2003, foreign enterprises and individuals were allowed to acquire agricul- tural and nonagricultural land, subject to provisions in the constitution. Previously, foreign enterprises were allowed to acquire only nonagricultural land. By residents to nonresidents These transactions must be registered with the BOL. To residents from nonresidents Foreign loans received by enterprises and credit institutions must be registered with the BOL. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 548 LITHUANIA Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad These transactions must be registered with the BOL. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements These transactions must be registered with the BOL. Foreign exchange liabilities are subject to reserve requirements, which must be held in dollars and/or euros in a special account at the BOL. The choice of currency or currencies is left to the bank's discretion. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks' overall open positions may not exceed 25% of their capital, and the open position in individual currencies may not exceed 15% of banks' capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Investment companies may invest only in "liquid" EEA and OECD securities, as defined by the Lithuanian Securities Commission. There is a limit on investment by pension funds in foreign securities, of which 20% must be in "liquid" EEA and OECD securities. Insur- ance companies require permission from the State Supervisory Authority to invest in non- EEA and non-OECD countries. Insurance technical provision funds must be invested in assets expressed in the currency in which the insurance company's commitments are due, as established in the insurance or reinsurance contracts. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Capital transactions Controls on real estate transactions January 23. Foreigners were allowed to acquire both agricultural and nonagricultural land. Changes During 2003 Changes During 2004 Exchange arrangement June 27. Lithuania adopted the ERM II of the EMS, although the authorities continued to maintain the currency board arrangement without modification. Imports and import payments January 1. The licensing requirement for imports of alcoholic beverages and tobacco was lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LUXEMBOURG (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Luxembourg is the euro. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Luxembourg participates in the EMU with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. The ECB may intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions and relevant EU regulations, certain restrictions are maintained on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to Iraq, Myanmar, certain individuals associated with the previous government of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe. In accordance with EU Regulation 147/2003, effective January 27, 2003, financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia are prohibited. Restrictions also apply on transfers with respect to the Taliban and individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 549 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 550 LUXEMBOURG Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Blocked accounts Accounts affected by international security restrictions are blocked. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Payments for imports may be made freely. Individual licenses are required for certain specified imports from all countries (imports from another EU member country do not require licenses), including many textile and steel products, diamonds, weapons, and nontextile products from China. All other commodities are free of license requirements. Along with other EU countries, Luxembourg applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EU countries in the framework of the MFA. It also applies a system of quotas on some steel products originating in Kazakhstan, Russia, and Ukraine. A double-checking system (without quotas) is applied to imports of some steel products from the Czech Republic, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Poland, and the Slovak Republic. Quotas are applied on a number of products from China, such as ceramics, porcelain, and shoes. The EU's prior surveillance system is in effect on imports of certain iron and steel products originating in non-EU countries. Luxembourg applies the Common Import Regime of the EU to imports of most other agricultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export licenses are required for a few products, mostly of a strategic character, such as arms, dual-use goods, and diamonds. Export licenses are also required for exports to countries under UN embargo. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LUXEMBOURG 551 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. These are applicable only to insurance undertakings. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. Financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia were prohibited. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 19, 1998. Currency The currency of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is the Macedonian denar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The exchange market operates at two levels: wholesale (enterprises, commercial banks, and the National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia (NBRM)) and retail (households). The NBRM participates in the wholesale market to maintain the value of the denar against the euro at a level that meets balance of payments objectives. Buying and selling rates for transactions between authorized banks and enterprises have to be reported to the NBRM, which calculates an average daily rate. Based on this rate and cross rates on the interna- tional market, the NBRM publishes rates for 12 currencies and deals at the published mid- point rates plus or minus a margin of 0.5%. The retail level of the foreign exchange market consists of foreign exchange bureaus, which are owned and operated by banks, enterprises, and natural persons. Foreign exchange bu- reaus may hold foreign exchange in cash form up to the specified maximum level, but must keep balances above this level in a special account with commercial banks. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward foreign exchange operations are allowed for all residents. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Administration of control All settlements must be in denars except for (1) purchases or sales of foreign exchange by individuals from authorized bureaus of exchange, (2) interest earnings on resident foreign exchange deposit accounts, (3) valuations of contracts among residents, and (4) extensions of credits from authorized banks to residents under conditions determined by the NBRM. An agreement is maintained with Slovenia. The NBRM controls foreign exchange operations of banks, savings institutions, and foreign exchange bureaus. The MOF controls foreign exchange and trade operations and credit operations of natural and juridical persons for transactions not controlled by the NBRM. The customs authorities control cross-border transfers of goods, banknotes, securities, and gold. The Ministry of Economy (MOE) administers the New Trade Law. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Private Yes. 552 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 553 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Gold producers must report all production, including quality and quantity sold. Processors are also required to report all quantities bought and processed. Controls on external trade The importation and exportation of gold require MOE approval. Only the NBRM may import and export monetary gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Effective October 25, 2003, up to MDen 20,000 may be exported in denominations of 500, 100, 50, or 10 denar banknotes in circulation or in the form of checks. Effective March 12, 2003, resident natural persons may export up to the equivalent of €2,000 without documentation or up to €4,000 with documentation issued by an exchange bureau or a bank (exports exceeding €4,000 are not permitted). Nonresidents may export up to €2,000 w i thout documentation and up to the amount declared upon arrival in the country with documentation from the custom authorities. Previously, resident and nonresident natu- ral persons could export up to the equivalent of €10,000 without documentation, and up to the amount declared to customs upon arrival in the country. The limits governing exports apply. Effective March 12, 2003, residents may import up to the equivalent of €10,000 without documentation (imports exceeding this limit require prior NBRM approval in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering); and nonresidents may import up to €2,000 or the amount declared upon arrival in the country freely; amounts exceeding that limit require documentation in accordance with the law on the Prevention of Money Laundering. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Resident natural persons, upon proof of identity, may open and operate foreign exchange accounts without restriction, and resident juridical persons may open foreign exchange accounts only for their receipts from nonresidents without limitations on maturity and use them to make payments to nonresidents. The following residents are allowed to maintain accounts abroad: banks; government representatives; natural persons with a permanent residence in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and a valid resident visa or work permit issued abroad with a validity of more than six months during the period of their stay abroad; natural persons with a permanent residence in a foreign country and a valid visa or work permit issued in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; and juridical persons performing services in the international transportation of goods or passengers, investment companies, insurance companies, or scientific institutions. Approval required NBRM approval is required for residents other than authorized banks. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Only resident natural persons are permitted to maintain these accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 554 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open foreign exchange accounts upon proof of identity. Nonresident diplomatic representatives of foreign countries or international institutions may operate these accounts, without any restrictions. Other nonresidents may operate accounts without restrictions except for cash withdrawals, which are limited to the equivalent of €10,000 a month. Nonresidents, other than diplomatic representatives of foreign countries or international institutions, must obtain a certificate from the customs authorities for cash deposits above the equivalent of €2,000. Nonresidents may open denar accounts upon proof of identity. Nonresident diplomatic representatives of foreign countries or international institutions may operate accounts with- out restriction. Other nonresidents may operate accounts without restriction, except for cash withdrawals, which are limited to €10,000 a month in denar equivalent. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Commercial banks require documents verifying the purpose of the transaction only. Imports of certain goods, such as weapons and medicines, are subject to licensing require- ments for security or public health reasons. The following duty rates apply: on raw materials, zero to 2%; machinery and equipment, 1% to 8%; consumer goods, 15% to 35%; and agricultural goods, 20% to 60%. The number of bands is 16, and the average rate is about 14.5%. A fixed customs fee of the equivalent of €19 applies for each customs declaration. Duty-free imports of goods and services are exempt from this customs fee. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Generally, exports do not require a license. However, in some exceptional cases, the export of certain goods requires a license from the appropriate authorities. Yes. A fee of 0.1% is levied on exports for promotional purposes by the MOE. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Documentary evidence is required for all payments, and personal payments are subject to a ceiling of the equivalent of €2,500. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 555 Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Indicative Urnits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may open custody accounts for the purchase of securities, except for pur- chases (1) from initial public offerings; (2) of shares representing more than 10% of the voting rights or more than 10% of the equity of a shareholder company; or (3) of private placements. Commercial banks must pay a premium, established quarterly by the NBRM, for the right to buy foreign exchange to cover the security position of this custody account, except for the balances of the portfolio investments that have been committed for one year. Previously, nonresidents were allowed to acquire shares in domestic companies on the same terms as residents, but needed to register the investment with the MOE. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may issue or sell locally shares or other securities of a participating nature with permission from the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC). Purchase abroad by residents Authorized banks may freely purchase abroad only (1) securities issued by an OECD mem- ber state or international financial institution and (2) securities with minimum Baa rating (according to Moody's) or BBB (according to Standard and Poor's). All residents may purchase abroad securities traded on the stock exchanges with which the stock exchange of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has an agreement. Sale or issue abroad by residents Permission from the SEC is required for residents to issue securities abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 556 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of bonds in private placements are treated as credit transactions; for other catego- ries, the regulations for shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are permitted for debt securities with maturities of up to three years. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments The regulations governing capital market securities apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing capital market securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments The regulations governing capital market securities apply. In the case of the sale or issue abroad by nonresidents, SEC permission is not required. Controls on credit operations Prior registration with the NBRM is required. Commercial credits Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Effective August 8, 2003, commercial credits exceeding one year (previously, 180 days) must be registered with the NBRM. Effective August 8, 2003, residents must register investments with the MOE within 60 days (previously, 30 days). Nonresidents are allowed to invest in existing firms, establish their own firms, or establish jo int ventures, except in a few sectors (such as arms production, trade in narcotics, and protection of historical and cultural heritage). Imports of raw materials, spare parts, and equipment not produced domestically by joint-venture firms are exempt from customs du- ties if the foreign share in the investment is at least 20%. All foreign investment registered with the MOE is protected from nationalization. The transfer of profits and other proceeds is allowed freely after meeting all tax obligations. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Residents in general are not allowed to acquire real estate abroad, except under the condi- tion of reciprocity pursuant to the provisions of an international agreement, although the government may acquire real estate abroad for diplomatic and consular purposes. Effective August 8, 2003, acquisitions of real estate must be registered with the Central Registry (CR) within 60 days (previously, registration with the MOE within 30 days was required). Nonresidents may acquire real estate locally pursuant to the provisions of a special law or an international agreement, under the condition of reciprocity. Effective August 8, 2003, acquisitions of real estate must be registered with the CR w i th in 60 days (previously, they had to be registered within 30 days with the MOE). Nonresidents may sell real estate to residents, subject to registration of the real estate with the CR. Transfers related to inheritances require a reciprocity agreement. By residents to nonresidents Documentary evidence is required for payments exceeding the equivalent of €2,500. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (f inanc ial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Credit exposure to one entity may not exceed 25% of a bank 's regulatory capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA 557 Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Commercial banks may lend in foreign exchange to residents for current payments abroad, but credit exposure to one person may not exceed 25% of a bank's regulatory capital. The NBRM determines the conditions under which these transactions may be made. Credit exposure by an issuer may not exceed 25% of a bank's regulatory capital. Effective June 11, 2003, deposits in denars and in foreign exchange are subject to a un i fo rm reserve requirement of 7.5%. Previously, only deposits in denars were subject to reserve requirements (10% for demand deposits and 5% for time deposits). Effective June 11, 2003, the reserve requirement is 7.5% for all deposits. Previously, re- serve requirements were 10% for denar demand deposits and 5% for denar time deposits. Effective August 8, 2003, banks are required to obtain prior approval from the NBRM and register these investments with the MOE within 60 days (previously, 30 days). For initial investments, nonresidents must obtain prior approval from the NBRM and report these investments to the MOF within 60 days. Prior approval from the NBRM is also re- quired when additional investments reach 5%, 10%, 20%, 33%, 50%, and 75% of capital shares. In addition, the source of funds must be disclosed for purchases of shares exceeding 1% of the capital. The limit on open foreign exchange position is 20% of a bank's regulatory capital for each foreign currency (for euros, 30%), and the l im it on aggregate open foreign exchange posi- tion is 50% of a bank 's regulatory capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents The maximum l im it for a resident or nonresident issuer is 20% of the bank's regulatory capital, and the regulations governing capital market securities apply. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Effective August 8, 2003, insurance companies, pension funds, and investment funds may purchase securities abroad in accordance with respective laws governing their operations. Previously, these transactions were not allowed. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The maximum limit is 25% of a bank's regulatory capital. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts October 25. Exports and imports of banknotes (in denominations of 500, 100, 50, or 10 denars) and/or checks were allowed up to the equivalent of MDen 20,000. Changes During 2003 March 12. Resident natural persons were allowed to export up to the equivalent of €2,000 without documentation, or up to the equivalent of €4,000 with documentation, and nonresi- dents were allowed to export up to €2,000 without documentation, or up to the amount previously imported. Previously, a limit of €10,000 applied in both cases. March 12. The regulations on imports of foreign currency notes were revised as follows: (1) for residents, up to the equivalent of €10,000 w i thout documentation (imports exceed- ing this l im it require prior NBRM approval in accordance with the Law on the Prevention ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 558 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions of Money Laundering); and (2) for nonresidents, imports exceeding the equivalent of €2,000, or the amount declared upon arrival in the country, require documentation. August 8. Commercial credits exceeding one year (previously, 180 days) were required to be registered with the NBRM. August 8. Residents were required to register investments with the MOE within 60 days (previously, 30 days). August 8. Purchases of real estate abroad by residents and purchases locally by nonresi- dents were required to be registered with the CR (previously, the MOE) within 60 days (previously, 30 days). June 11. Deposits in denars and in foreign exchange were made subject to a uniform re- serve requirement of 7.5%. Previously, only denar deposits were subject to reserve re- quirements (10% for demand deposits and 5% for time deposits). August 8. Banks were required to obtain prior approval from the NBRM for investments abroad and report them to the MOE within 60 days (previously, 30 days). Provisions specific to institutional investors August 8. Insurance companies, pension funds, and investment funds were allowed to purchase securities abroad in accordance with respective laws governing their operations. Previously, these transactions were not allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position as of January 31, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 18, 1996. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement Effective July 31, 2003, a new currency, the ariary, began to circulate together with the Malagasy franc; the two are convertible at the rate of ariary 1 per FMG 5. All accounts will continue to be denominated in Malagasy francs until January 1, 2005, when they will be converted into ariary. Yes. Unitary. The exchange rate is determined freely in the official interbank market. The euro is the only currency quoted on this market, and the exchange rates of other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross-rate relationships of the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. No. No. There are limited arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Importers may buy foreign currency 120 days prior to settlement from their bank. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Yes. Yes. Inoperative There is an arrangement with Mauritius that has been inoperative for some time. Regional arrangements Madagascar is a member of the Regional Integration Facilitation Forum. Barter agreements and open accounts Regulations prohibit barter trade. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Operations Monitoring Unit of the Gen- eral Directorate of the Treasury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents, and the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar. Approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries, except for capital operations, which require prior MOF authorization, and all exchange transactions must be effected through such intermediaries. International security restrictions n.a. 559 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 560 Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency MADAGASCAR Yes. Yes. Approved collectors acting in their own name and on their own account may purchase gold within the country from holders of valid gold mining titles, from authorized holders of Gold Board gold washing rights, and from agencies for approved collectors. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Ministry of Commerce after review by the Directorate of Energy and Mines. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank of Madagascar (CBM), and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Travelers are authorized to export 50 grams or 250 carats of gold jewelry or gold articles a person, and 50 grams or 250 carats of numismatic items a person. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. Holders of a valid gold mining title or a gold washing permit or rights thereto are free to sell any gold recovered to any approved collector. However, Malagasy authorities or their agents have first rights to purchase gold produced in the country. The Gold Board and agencies authorized by the Ministry of Mining may export gold in all its forms. Jewelers, goldsmiths, and private sector professionals who use gold may export it only in worked form, with the approval of the Minister of Mining. Effective August 29, 2003, resident and nonresident travelers may take abroad up to FMG 2 million in Malagasy banknotes (previously, FMG 25,000). Resident and nonresident travelers may take abroad any amount of foreign currency, but a declaration is required if the amount exceeds the equivalent of €7,622.45. Effective August 29, 2003, residents and nonresidents may bring in up to FMG 2 million (previously, FMG 25,000). Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency, but a declaration is required if the amount is the equivalent of €7,622.45 or more. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Residents may freely open foreign currency accounts with local commercial banks. Only transfers from abroad or from another foreign currency account, as well as foreign banknotes or traveler's and bank checks, may be deposited in these accounts without documentation. These accounts may be freely debited either for conversion into Malagasy francs through a sale on the interbank market or by transfer to a foreign account in Madagascar or abroad. Conversion into foreign banknotes is allowed only within the limits stipulated under the applicable foreign exchange control regulation and requires prior MOF approval. The authorization of the MOF is required for opening foreign exchange accounts in foreign banks. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 561 Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents are treated the same as residents for the purpose of opening these accounts. Convertible into foreign currency No. Domestic currency accounts Transactions between residents and enterprises in the free-trade zone are conducted either through the enterprises' special accounts in Malagasy francs or through their foreign exchange accounts. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements The requirement applies to all imports. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There is a short list of imports subject to administrative control, primarily for health and security reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs Effective September 1, 2003, certain construction materials; livestock; automobiles; agri- cultural, domestic, and industrial products; and materials for tailoring are exempt from all taxes for a period of two years. On January 4, 2004, the customs duty, import tax, stamp duty of imports, and statistical surcharge on imports were collapsed into two categories, the customs duty and the import tax (the latter includes the previous import tax, stamp duty, and statistical surcharge), with combined rates of 5%, 10%, 20%, and 25%. Previously, the tariff structure had seven rates (3%, 8%, 13%, 18%, 23%, 28%, and 33%); some imports, mostly luxury goods, were subject to excise import taxes of 10% to 120%, and a pretax of 3% to 5%, deductible from the corporate tax, was paid on all imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days of the shipment date. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes All exports, excluding free deliveries, require either a collection on delivery or settlement against delivery of documents. This requirement applies only to exports exceeding FMG 2.5 million. Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 562 MADAGASCAR Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be repatriated within 30 days of the due date, Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries and between residents and nonresidents are subject to prior authorization from the MOF. There are no capital market regulations, since there is no capital market. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior authorization of the MOF is required for issue or sales of shares in Madagascar. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Yes. Yes. n.r. By residents to nonresidents Currently these operations do not take place. To residents from nonresidents Credits for export prefinancing operations are permitted. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Borrowing abroad by natural or juridical persons, whether public or private, requires prior authorization from the MOF, although loans contracted by authorized banks or credit insti- tutions with special legal status are exempt. Enterprises in the free-trade zone are permitted to contract and service foreign loans freely, and interest and amortization payments on foreign loans contracted directly by these companies are not restricted. Investments abroad by Malagasy nationals, including those made through foreign compa- nies directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Madagascar and those made by overseas branches or subsidiaries of companies located in Madagascar, are subject to prior authorization from the MOF. Investments, including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indi- rectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign compa- nies in Madagascar, as well as corresponding transfers, may be freely conducted within Madagascar without authorization or investment approval. The total or partial liquidation of these investments, whether Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the MOF. Proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investments may be repatriated with the prior authorization of the MOF. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 563 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are prohibited, unless a waiver is granted by the MOF. Sale locally by nonresidents The transfer of proceeds of sales requires the prior authorization of the MOF. Controls on personal capital transactions n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Controls are implemented through bank supervision. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement July 31. A new currency, the ariary, began to circulate together with the Malagasy franc. The Malagasy franc will continue to circulate and to serve as the unit of account until January 1, 2005, when accounts in francs will be converted into ariary. Arrangements for payments and receipts August 29. The amount of domestic currency that resident and nonresident travelers may import or export was increased to FMG 2 million from FMG 25,000. Imports and import payments September 1. Selected items were made exempt from all taxes for a period of two years. Changes During 2004 Imports and import payments January 4. The customs duty, import tax, stamp duty of imports, and statistical surcharge on imports were collapsed into two categories, the customs duty and the import tax (the latter includes the previous import tax, stamp duty, and statistical surcharge), with combined rates of 5%, 10%, 20%, and 25%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 7, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Malawi is the Malawi kwacha. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange market participants are free to quote their own rates, provided that the spread between the buying and selling rates does not exceed 2%. Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to conduct spot transactions with the general public on the basis of exchange rates negotiated with their clients. Official intervention focuses on meeting the target on the net foreign reserves position and performing smoothing operations, and takes into account seasonal factors. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and receipts from nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency traded in Malawi or in kwacha through nonresident accounts. Current transactions between a resident and a nonresident may be settled only in foreign exchange, apart from transactions effected through nonresident accounts, which may be settled in kwacha. Payments to and receipts from nonresidents with respect to capital transactions may be made through the banking system, but foreign exchange must be converted into kwacha. Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents It is prohibited to quote, demand, or accept foreign currency for goods or services sold or procured in Malawi. Payments arrangements Yes. Regional arrangements Administration of control Malawi is a member of the RIFF. Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) under the author- ity of the MOF. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 564 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 565 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins for numismatic purposes. Only the monetary authorities may hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Only the monetary authorities may conduct external trade in gold. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI) in consultation with the MOF; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Malawian and Mozambican monetary authorities are working toward the formalization of a repatriation agreement. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Up to MK 3,000 may be exported. Residents may export foreign currency up to the equivalents of $3,000, $4,000, and $5,000, applicable to tourist, medical, and business travel, respectively. Nonresidents may export foreign currency up to the amount that they imported, less any amount spent. Domestic currency Up to MK 3,000 may be imported. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Residents receiving foreign exchange from exports of goods and services or any other bona fide economic activity may open and maintain foreign currency accounts (FCAs), provided that they satisfy the terms and conditions of the bank involved for operating such accounts. Balances in FCAs may be used to make foreign payments and transfers, provided exchange control regulations are satisfied. Held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Residents and nonresidents are not allowed to hold offshore accounts denominated in kwacha. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but authorized dealer banks (ADBs) are required to report them to the RBM. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any convertible currency, with authorized payments in kwacha from abroad, and with transfers from other nonresi- dent accounts. These accounts may also be debited to make payments to residents of Ma- lawi for any purpose, transfer freely to other nonresident accounts, and make payments to account holders temporarily residing in Malawi. Convertible into foreign currency Balances in these accounts are freely remittable. Blocked accounts Credits to and debits from these accounts require prior authorization, and authorization is normally given for balances to be invested in an approved manner. Interest earned on balances may be transferred to the account holder's country of residence. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 566 MALAWI Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Importers are free to choose any method of payment, and imports may be paid for in kwa- cha to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. When im- ports arrive in the country and payment is due, the importer must submit to an ADB an application for foreign exchange. Such applications must be accompanied by relevant im- portation, customs, and preshipment inspection documents. Prepayment for imports is not encouraged; importers are encouraged to use other modes of payment (e.g., LCs). Advance import deposits are not required by law; however, ADBs may require them as a banking practice, depending on the mode of payment (e.g., LCs). A clean-report-of-fmdings certificate is required. All imports into Malawi amounting to the equivalent of $2,000 (f.o.b.) and higher are subject to preshipment inspection. Imports of clothing and uniforms designed for military or police use, radioactive sub- stances, mist nets for the capture of wild birds, wild animals, live fish, compound products suitable only for use as animal fodder, eggs of domestic or wild birds, live poultry (includ- ing day-old chicks), meat dieldrin, aldrin, and table salt require specific licenses from the MCI. Specific import licenses are usually issued within one week of application and are normally valid for six months. Open general licenses Most imports are subject to OGLs, including imports from Commonwealth and WTO member countries. Other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Customs tariffs are ad valorem and range up to 35% of c.i.f. value, with a weighted average of about 15%. Customs tariffs on all items with MFN status range from zero to 30%. Tar- iffs on items from the COMESA region range from zero to 13%. Selected government im- ports are exempt from customs tariffs. Imports are also subject to a surtax ranging up to 17.5%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements ADBs are required to convert 40% of foreign exchange received from exports immediately upon receipt at the prevailing buying exchange rate, and to credit the kwacha proceeds to the customer's account. The remaining 60% may be credited to the exporter's FCA. There are no restrictions on the time period during which such balances may be held. The 40% conversion requirement also applies to dollar proceeds from tobacco and tea auctions. In the case of tobacco proceeds, the conversion requirement is 100% until the seller has fu l ly repaid any overdraft. Financing requirements Yes. Documentation requirements Exporters are required to complete a form. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 567 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Quantitative limits ADBs are authorized to provide foreign exchange, without reference to the exchange con- trol authorities, for all current invisible payments. These payments are allowed, provided the investment is registered with and the foreign loan has been approved by the RBM. The limits are the equivalent of $3,000 a trip for tourist travel and $5,000 a trip for business travel. Foreign exchange in excess of these limits is granted upon proof of need. Subse- quent issues of foreign exchange to the same individual with respect to private or business travel are granted upon proof of need. ADBs may approve up to the equivalent of $ 1,000 for fam i ly maintenance and alimony payments. Limits are also applied to these payments. Indicative limits/bona fide test Indicative limits apply to payments for medical treatment. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval The limit is two-thirds of current net earnings. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Forty percent of total proceeds are converted into local currency upon receipt, and the re- ma in ing 60% may be held in FCAs. Restrictions on use of funds Funds may be used only in accordance with exchange control regulations. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Inward transfers of non-debt creating capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled ma in ly for residents. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Specific exchange control approval is required. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents Specific exchange control approval is required. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities The regulations governing money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 568 MALAWI Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Borrowing abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, which is normally granted provided that the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Yes. The regulations governing commercial credits apply. The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Yes. Repatriation of investments is permitted when the original investment was made with funds brought into the country. Yes. Borrowing abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, which is normally granted provided that the terms of repayment, inc lud ing the servicing costs, are acceptable. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position as of April 30, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 11, 1968. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Malaysia is the Malaysian ringgit. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative The exchange rate of the ringgit is pegged to the U.S. dollar at RM 3.80 per US$1. The maximum spread between the buying and selling rates is fixed at 2% for the euro, the Hong Kong dollar, the Japanese yen, the Singapore dollar, and the U.S. dollar and at 3% for all other currencies. n.a. n.a. Forward exchange contracts may be effected for both commercial and financial transac- tions. For financial transactions, prior approval is required. For commercial transactions, forward cover for imports may be provided for up to 12 months from the intended date of import, while for export purposes, forward cover may be provided for up to 6 months from the export date. Effective April 1, 2004, residents are allowed to sell forward nonexpert foreign currency receivables for ringgit or another foreign currency to an authorized dealer or an approved merchant bank for any purpose, provided that the transaction is supported by a firm underlying commitment to receive the currency (previously, such receivables could be sold forward up to 12 months only). Also effective that date, residents with per- mitted foreign currency borrowing may enter into interest rate swaps with an onshore li- censed bank, an approved merchant bank, or a licensed offshore bank in Labuan, provided that the transaction is supported by a firm underlying commitment to receive the currency. Forward exchange contracts against the ringgit or another foreign currency with nonresi- dents require the prior approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange (COFE), with the following exceptions: (1) authorized dealers may enter into short-term currency swap ar- rangements with nonresident custodian banks and stockbroking companies for payments of share purchases on the Malaysia Securities Exchange Berhad (MSEB) that have maturities of up to three working days and that are based on firm commitments; and (2) authorized dealers may enter into outright ringgit forward sale contracts with nonresidents that have maturities of up to three working days and that are based on firm underlying commitments to purchase shares on the MSEB. Forward exchange contracts against foreign currency entered into by authorized dealers and approved banks with nonresidents are subject to net open position limits. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Special rules apply to settlements with Israel and Serbia and Montenegro. There are 23 arrangements. There are 15 arrangements. Regional arrangements Malaysia is a member of the ASEAN. 569 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 570 MALAYSIA Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. The COFE, who is also the governor of the Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM), administers exchange control. Malaysia imposes certain restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to Israel and Serbia and Montenegro. Financial institutions have been instructed to freeze the accounts of the Taliban and of individuals and economic enti- ties associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency The limit on exports of domestic currency by resident and nonresident travelers is RM 1,000 a person. The export of domestic currency by other means, irrespective of the amount, requires prior approval by the COFE. Residents may export foreign currency up to the equivalent of RM 10,000, and nonresi- dents may export up to the amount that they previously brought into Malaysia. Exports of larger amounts require prior approval by the COFE. Residents and nonresidents may import up to RM 1,000 in domestic banknotes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Effective April 1, 2003, exporters are allowed to retain a portion of their export proceeds in foreign currency accounts with designated banks in Malaysia, with overnight limits ranging between the equivalent of US$1 million and US$70 million or any other amount that has been approved (previously, the limits were between US$1 million and US$10 million). Effective April 1, 2004, these limits were increased to a range between the equivalent of US$30 million and US$100 million. Limits imposed on exporters are based on their aver- age monthly export receipts over the previous 12 months. In addition, resident exporters may merge their export and nonexpert foreign currency accounts in accordance with over- night limits imposed on exporters. Effective April 1, 2004, resident companies with domestic borrowing are allowed to open one or more nonexpert foreign currency accounts with licensed onshore banks to retain foreign currency receivables that are not export receipts with no limit on the overnight bal- ances; those without domestic borrowing may open nonexpert foreign currency accounts in licensed offshore banks in Labuan up to an aggregate overnight limit of the equivalent of US$500,000. Effective April 1, 2004, resident individuals with funds abroad may maintain nonexpert foreign currency accounts with onshore or offshore banks without any limit on the overnight balance. Effective April 1, 2004, residents with foreign currency funds are free to invest in any foreign currency products offered by onshore licensed banks. Resident individuals may open foreign currency accounts with onshore licensed authorized banks for payment of education and employment expenses, subject to an aggregate over- night limit of US$150,000. Approval required Prior approval from the COFE is required to retain amounts exceeding the permitted limit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted MALAYSIA 571 Corporate residents with domestic borrowing are allowed to open one or more foreign cur- rency accounts with licensed offshore banks in Labuan to retain foreign currency receiv- ables that are not export proceeds, subject to an aggregate overnight limit of the equivalent of US$500,000. Other corporate residents with no domestic borrowing are allowed to open foreign currency accounts with an overseas branch of Malaysian-owned banks for crediting foreign currency receivables other than export proceeds, with no limit on overnight bal- ances. Effective April 1, 2004, resident individuals may open foreign currency accounts to facilitate payment of education and employment expenses overseas, with an aggregate overnight limit of up to US$150,000 (previously, US$100,000) with licensed offshore banks in Labuan, and up to US$50,000 with overseas banks. Effective April 1, 2004, resi- dent individuals with funds abroad (not converted from ringgit) may maintain nonexpert foreign current accounts offshore without any limit on overnight balances. Prior approval from the COFE is required to open foreign currency accounts exceeding the permitted limits and to open such accounts at unapproved banks. n.a. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Approval required All licensed banks and merchant banks are allowed to maintain these accounts. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident ringgit accounts in Malaysia are known as external accounts. Sources of funds in these accounts may include sales of foreign currency; ringgit assets in Malaysia; income from salaries, wages, rentals, commissions, interest, profits, and dividends; proceeds from permitted ringgit loans extended by residents and/or extended in accordance with the terms and conditions of employment; proceeds from repayment of permitted ringgit loans; depos- its of ringgit in cash of up to RM 10,000 a day; transfers of up to RM 5,000 a transaction from and to an account by way of ringgit checks; transfers of up to RM 5,000 a transaction from an account for any purpose through ATM cards, Internet banking, or ringgit checks; and transfers of any amount from another external account held by the same entity. Funds in external accounts may be used for payments for purchases of foreign currency and ringgit assets in Malaysia; payments for administrative and statutory expenses incurred in Malaysia; payments for goods and services in Malaysia; granting of loans and advances to staff in Malaysia in accordance with the terms and conditions of employment; payments of non fmanc ial guarantees (when a guarantee is required); repayments of permitted ringgit loans; and ringgit cash withdrawals. Prior approval from the COFE is required for transfers of funds between external accounts and for uses of funds other than for permitted purposes. There are no restrictions on the operation of external accounts of nonresidents working in Malaysia (including their spouses, children, and parents residing in Malaysia), embassies, consulates, high commissions, central banks, or international organizations in Malaysia. There is no restriction on the conversion of ringgit funds in external accounts into foreign currency for repatriation. Investors may freely bring funds into and repatriate funds out of the country. All debits from and credits to the accounts of residents of Israel and Serbia and Montenegro require prior approval from the COFE. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Payments are allowed freely, provided that they are in foreign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 572 MALAYSIA Minimum financing requirements There are minimum financing requirements for rice, fish, and fishery products that vary depending on the agreement between the parties involved. Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports In accordance with a special agreement, sales of rice from Myanmar are subject to advance payments. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspections are made by independent surveyors for rice imports. Letters of credit Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Buyers must open irrevocable LCs. Other documents required are an invoice, a bill of lading, a sanitary or phytosanitary cer- tificate, and a certificate of origin. The authority for import control rests with the Royal Malaysian Customs of the MOF. Im- port licensing throughout Malaysia is administered daily by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), together with other specified authorities, such as the Ministry of Primary Industries, the Malaysian Timber Board, the Department of Agriculture (DOA), and the Department of Veterinary Services of Malaysia (DVSM), as stated in the Animal Ordinance of 1953. Import licenses for fish and fishery products are issued by the Fisheries Development Authorities of Malaysia (LKIM). A service charge of RM 0.05 a kilogram is imposed on imported fish and fishery products. The shipment of live fish (including among peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak) also requires a permit issued by the LKIM. In accordance with the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, a permit is required from the Department of W i ld l ife for the import of endangered species. Import permits for animals and animal products —including those from Sabah and Sarawak —are issued by the DVSM. Import approvals are subject to import risk analysis and accreditation of establishments/premises under the Animal Ordinance of 1953 and in accordance with the regulations of the Office of International Epizootics and other standards. Permits for the importation of round cabbage and raw coffee must be obtained from the Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority (FAMA). Import quotas for round cabbage are issued every month, while import quotas for raw coffee are issued every three months. The following require import permits issued by the DOA under the P lant Quarantine Act: p lan t ing material; organic fertilizer; processed mineral clay; processed sand; plants and p lant parts —including seeds and other p lan t ing material; soils (e.g., clay, sand, processed and unprocessed soils); growth media; herbaria, dried flowers; organic fer t i l izer; and mi- croorganisms. Imports of unprocessed food and plants from tropical America and Central A f r ica are prohibited under the same law. Imports of cereals and nuts from countries known to harbor khapra beetles must be treated and accompanied by a phytosanitary certificate. Imports of plant products intended for consumption or processing are subject to inspection upon arrival. Approval from the DOA is required to import fresh pineapples; otherwise, a duty of 300% is levied. Approval from the Ministry of Health is required to import 19 chemical substances. All radio communication apparatuses capable of telecommunication in frequency bands of less than 3,000 GHz require a license from the Standard and Industrial Research Institute of Malaysia, except for receivers designed for use in broadcasting services and radio commu- nication apparatuses that have a valid license issued by the telecommunications authority of any country or an international automatic roaming card issued by a licensed operator. Imports of certain iron and steel products and certain types of cement and ceramics prod- ucts are prohibited unless they conform to certain standards and are imported in accordance with the Fourth Schedule, Part III, of the Customs Order of 1998. Import licenses for rice are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Certain imports are subject to quantitative restrictions, which are reviewed periodically, to protect local industries temporarily when necessary. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 573 Other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly An t idump ing duties are imposed on imports of plaster and gypsum boards from Thailand and on imports from specific companies. Under the privatization agreement, the corporation BERNAS was granted the sole right to import rice into Malaysia for 15 years beginning in 1996. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports must be received and repatriated according to the payment schedule specified in the commercial contract, but no later than six months after the date of exporta- tion. Export proceeds must be received in foreign currency for all countries except the cur- rencies of Israel and Serbia and Montenegro. Effective April 1, 2003, exporters are allowed to retain a portion of their export proceeds in foreign currency accounts with designated banks with an overnight l im it of between the equivalent of US$1 million and US$70 million, or any larger approved amount (previously, between US$1 m i l l ion and US$10 m i l l ion). Effective April 1, 2004, this l im it was raised to between the equivalent of US$30 million and US$100 million. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exports of rubber from pen insu lar Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Preshipment inspection Export licenses Export taxes The export of live fish is subject to preshipment inspection and, if requested, a certificate of health, a certificate of sanitation, and a certificate of origin may be issued by the Depart- ment of Fisheries. Veterinary examination, laboratory testing, and animal quarantine procedures —as well as accreditation of establishments/premises for export of animals and animal products—are carried out by the DVSM in accordance with import requirements of importing countries. Export licenses for fish and fishery products are issued by the LKIM. The shipment of live fish ( inc lud ing among peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak) also requires a permit issued by the Department of Fisheries. In accordance with the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), a permit from the Depart- ment of Wildlife is required for exports of endangered species. Export licenses or permits from the FAMA are required for exports of star fruit to Western Europe, West Asia, and Hong Kong SAR; for exports of garlic to the EU; and for exports of Eksotika papaya overseas. FAMA acts on behalf of the Royal Customs and Excise De- partment to endorse exports of all types of vegetables, especially to Singapore and Brunei Darussalam. Exports of plants, seeds, or shoots for purposes of propagation require export permits is- sued by the DO A. Exports of endangered species of plants require a CITES permit from the DO A. Export permits and veterinary health certification from the DVSM are required for exports of animals and animal products. Export licenses (issued by the Malaysian Pineapple Industry Board) are required for fresh pineapple and canned pineapple products. A service charge of RM 0.184 a kilogram is imposed on exports of canned pineapple. Export taxes on most commodities, except for crude palm oil and crude oil, have been abol- ished. Export taxes on other items are negligible. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel and Serbia and Montenegro may be made without restriction. Effec t ive April 1, 2003, payments —such as profits, dividends, rental income, and interest related to bona fide investments —may be remitted to nonresi- dents without prior approval but require completion of statistical forms for amounts up to the equivalent of RM 50,000 a transaction (previously, RM 10,000). Remittances of interest payments to nonresident lenders do not require prior approval as long as the payments are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 574 MALAYSIA in accordance with the terms of the loan. For any payment from a resident to a nonresident in excess of RM 50,000 or its equivalent in foreign currency, supporting documents must be submitted to the remitting bank for statistical purposes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated according to the proceeds schedule specified in the agreement. Proceeds may be retained in permitted foreign currency accounts or converted into ringgit through an authorized dealer. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions In general, residents may obtain freely credit facilities in foreign currency up to the equiva- lent of RM 5 million in aggregate, and they may transfer funds to nonresidents up to the equivalent of RM 10,000 in foreign currency for productive investment purposes without approval; for funds exceeding this amount, prior approval is required. Ringgit assets purchased by residents from nonresidents may be settled in ringgit or in any foreign currency other than the currencies of Israel and Serbia and Montenegro, and non- residents may transfer ringgit securities to other nonresidents. Settlements for such transfers may be made in ringgit or foreign currency if settled in Malaysia, or in foreign currency if settled abroad. Additionally, remittances of funds exceeding the equivalent of RM 10,000 for investment in foreign shares offered by the overseas parent or related company under the Employee Share Option/Purchase Scheme (ESOS) do not require approval. Issuance of ringgit securities by nonresidents requires approval, but proceeds from the sale of these securities may be repatriated at any time. Controls do not apply to transactions valued at less than the equivalent of RM 10,000; for those exceeding RM 10,000, prior approval from the COFE is required. However, residents are permitted to remit funds exceeding the equivalent of RM 10,000 to invest in foreign shares offered by the overseas parent or related company under the ESOS. Controls do not apply to the sale of securities abroad by residents, but approval must be obtained to issue securities other than ordinary shares and irredeemable preference shares. Approval is granted if the proceeds associated with these issues are to be used to finance activities beneficial to the Malaysian economy. When interest on bonds is paid to a nonresident investor, the issuer is required to deduct a withholding tax—currently 15%—within one month of paying or crediting the interest, whichever is earlier. Issuance by nonresidents requires approval. When unlisted ringgit debt securities are of- fered domestically, a dealer must be appointed to undertake all sales and purchases of the debt securities. Effective April 1, 2004, the issuance of ringgit bonds in Malaysia by multi- lateral development banks and foreign multinational corporations requires approval from the COFE. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 575 Sale or issue abroad by residents Primary offerings or issuance by residents requires approval. Sales of bonds or other debt securities abroad are allowed freely. However, proceeds from these sales must be repatriated. On money market instruments The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. There is no limit on the sale of Malaysian securities in the country by nonresidents, and there is no restriction on the repatriation abroad of proceeds from such sales. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. In addi- tion, residents are generally required to obtain approval from the COFE and the Securities Commission (SC) to make available, to offer for subscription or purchase, to issue an invi- tation to subscribe to or purchase securities of a public company abroad, or to list such securities abroad. However, approval is not required for residents to sell un it trust schemes abroad. Residents must obtain approval for the making of payments for derivatives and other in- struments not traded on a futures exchange in Malaysia. There are, however, no controls on the trading of futures and options by nonresidents on the Malaysian Derivatives Exchange. The issuance of certain non-exchange traded derivatives by nonresidents requires approval from the COFE. The purchase of foreign currency-denominated derivatives not traded on a futures exchange in Malaysia by residents to nonresidents requires prior approval. Resident individuals, employed or staying abroad, may use their own currency funds sourced from abroad to purchase foreign currency instruments, including those offered by onshore li- censed banks and offshore licensed banks in Labuan. Purchase abroad by residents A resident must obtain permission to make payments to a nonresident for any spot or for- ward contract or interest rate futures not transacted at a futures exchange in Malaysia. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents must obtain permission from the COFE to issue and to sell financial instruments abroad. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The terms of export credits extended to nonresidents must not exceed six months from the date of export shipment. Residents may obtain trade credit terms extended by a supplier for all types of goods and services. However, credit terms extended by a nonresident supplier for capital goods for periods longer than 12 months are considered as foreign currency credit facilities. Approval is required for credits exceeding the equivalent of RM 5 million in aggregate. No controls apply to credits of less than RM 10,000 in foreign currency or ringgit granted by residents to nonresidents. Resident stockbroking companies may extend margin financing facilities to nonresident clients for the purchase of shares listed on the MSEB, provided that the companies comply with all relevant MSEB rules. Resident insurance companies may extend policy loans in ringgit to nonresident policy holders, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policies. The amount of ringgit loans extended may not exceed the policy's attained cash surrender value, and may be made for the duration of the policies. Effective April 1, 2004, residents (banks and nonbanks) may extend ringgit loans to non- residents to finance or refinance the purchase or construction of any immovable property in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 576 MALAYSIA Malaysia (excluding financing for purchases of land only) up to a maximum of three prop- erty loans in aggregate. Previously, only resident financial institutions and employers could extend property loans to nonresidents. Effective April 1, 2004, banking institutions may extend ringgit loans to nonresidents (other than to a stockbroking company, custodian bank, or correspondent bank) up to an aggregate amount of RM 10 million (previously, RM 200,000) for any purpose, except for purchase or construction of an immovable property. Resident commercial banks may extend to nonresident stockbroking companies and custo- dian banks ringgit overdraft credit facilities in aggregate not exceeding RM 200 million overnight for the financing of funding gaps arising from unforeseen or inadvertent technical delays in relation to settlement of trades on the MSEB. Effective March 7, 2003, banking institutions as a group may extend ringgit overdraft fa- cilities not exceeding RM 500,000 in aggregate to a nonresident, provided the credit facili- ties are fu l ly covered at all times by fixed deposits placed by the nonresident with the bank- ing institutions extending the credit facilities. Residents are permitted to obtain credits in foreign currency of up to the equivalent of RM 5 million in aggregate from licensed banks, licensed merchant banks, and nonresidents; for amounts exceeding RM 5 million prior approval is required, but approval is generally granted if funds are to be used for productive purposes. Residents require prior approval to obtain any amount of loans in ringgit from nonresidents. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Any payment to a nonresident related to guarantees must be made in foreign currency. To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Residents are permitted to obtain financial guarantees, provided the aggregate amount of the credit facility, including the financial guarantee, does not exceed the equivalent of RM 5 million. Prior approval from the COFE is required for amounts exceeding this limit. There are, however, no controls on the amount of financial guarantees obtained from li- censed offshore banks in Labuan. All payments related to the guarantees, other than those obtained from licensed offshore banks in Labuan, must be made in foreign currency. Investments abroad exceeding the equivalent of RM 10,000 in any form require approval from the COFE. Controls are imposed on equity shares in line with the national economic policy. The fol- lowing inward investments require prior approval from the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC): (1) acquisition of any substantial fixed assets by foreign interests; (2) acquisition of assets or interest, mergers, or takeovers of companies and businesses in Malaysia by any means that will cause ownership or control to pass to foreign interests; (3) acquisition of 15% or more of the voting power (equity interest) by any foreign interest or associated group or by a foreign interest in the aggregate of 30% or more of the voting power of a Malaysian company or business; (4) control of Malaysian companies and businesses through any form of joint-venture agreement, management agreement, or technical assis- tance arrangement; (5) merger or takeover of any company or business in Malaysia; and (6) any other proposed acquisition of assets or interest exceeding RM 10 million in value. Effective May 21, 2003, the threshold level is RM 10 million (previously, RM 5 million) for acquisition by foreign and Malaysian interests without FIC approval. The processing of acquisition proposals by licensed manufacturing companies is centralized at the MITI, while that of other corporations is centralized at the SC; these proposals no longer require consideration by the FIC. Incorporation of a Malaysian company by a foreign entity does not require the approval of the FIC. However, increases in the paid-up capital of a Malaysian company that involve any foreign entity require the approval of the FIC under the following circumstances: (1) the total value of the foreign entity's new subscription exceeds RM 10 million; (2) the total of the foreign entity's new subscription exceeds 15% of the voting power in the rele- vant company; (3) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, a foreign entity increases its voting power to more than 15% in the relevant company; (4) the total of the new subscrip- tion by several foreign entities increases their jo int voting power to 30% or more of the voting power in the relevant company; and (5) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 577 the aggregate holding of several foreign entities increases to 30% or more of the voting power in the relevant company. In addition, the permitted percentage of equity held by foreigners also depends on the per- centage of production exported, whether high-technology products are purchased or priority products are produced for the domestic market. For projects involving extracting, mining, and processing mineral ores, a majority foreign equity participation of up to 100% is per- mitted. Companies with Multimedia Super Corridor status are allowed to have 100% for- eign equity. Effective June 17, 2003, foreign equity holdings in manufacturing projects are allowed up to 100% for all types of investments. The proceeds of investments by nonresidents may be repatriated freely. The regulations governing purchases of shares or other securities of a participating nature abroad by residents apply. Purchases of residential, shop lot, commercial, and office space by foreigners may be made freely, provided that the purchase price is more than RM 150,000. Financing for such acquisitions may be obtained from f inanc ial institutions outside of or within Malaysia and may be made by foreign ind iv idua ls in their own capacity without incorporating as a Malaysian entity. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents The regulations governing financial credits apply. To residents from nonresidents The regulations governing financial credits apply. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Only authorized dealers in foreign currency and approved merchant banks are allowed to borrow freely in foreign currency from nonresidents. Other f inanc ial institutions are subject to prior approval if the aggregate amount exceeds the equivalent of RM 5 million. Maintenance of accounts abroad Only authorized dealers and approved merchant banks are permitted to maintain accounts abroad. Other credit institutions require approval to maintain these accounts. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents The regulations governing financial credits apply. Authorized dealers and approved merchant banks are allowed to lend in foreign currency to residents. A resident borrower, however, must obtain prior approval if total aggregate bor- rowing exceeds the equivalent of RM 5 m i l l ion. Purchases are allowed, provided that the issuance of the securities has been approved and the investment is subject to the net open position limits of authorized dealers and approved merchant banks. Investment abroad by authorized dealers and approved merchant banks is subject to net open position limits. Foreigners are generally limited to an aggregate participation of not more than 30% equity interest in a bank. Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are subject to the net open position limit. Provisions specific to institutional investors The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 578 MALAYSIA Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Residents are allowed to make payments up to RM 10,000 or its equivalent in foreign cur- rency to nonresidents for investments abroad. For amounts exceeding this limit, approval is required. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Insurers are required to support their margin of solvency (which is defined to include liabilities) with documented assets, as specified by the BNM. Insurance regulations allow a licensed insurer to hold for investment purposes with respect to its Malaysian insurance fund up to a maximum of 5% of its margin of solvency in assets of a foreign jurisdiction with a sovereign rating that is not lower than the sovereign rating of Malaysia. However, investment in any one foreign jurisdiction is restricted to 2% of its margin of solvency. A licensed insurer is also allowed to hold assets of a foreign jurisdic- tion where it is conducting business to enable it to meet its foreign liabilities in that juris- diction. Investment abroad requires prior approval from the COFE. Effective April 1, 2004, licensed insurers and takaful (Islamic insurance) operators may also invest abroad up to 5% of their margins of solvency and total assets, respectively. These entities may also invest up to 10% of net asset value in their own investment-linked funds. The guidelines on unit trust funds issued by the SC in 1997 and revised effective May 31, 2003, allow unit trust schemes to include investments in foreign securities traded in or un- der the rules of a foreign market, although this requires prior approval from the BNM, the SC, and other relevant authorities. Effective April 1, 2004, without prior COFE approval, un it trust management companies may invest abroad the fu ll amount of net asset value attributed to nonresidents and up to 10% of net asset value attributed to residents. In addi- tion, fund/asset managers may invest abroad up to the full amount of investments of non- resident clients and up to 10% of investments of their resident clients. Employee Provident Fund (EPF) investment in foreign securities in amounts exceeding RM 10,000 or its equivalent is subject to COFE approval. The EPF is required to invest a minimum of 50% of its annual investable funds in securities issued or guaranteed by the federal government, provided that the total amount of funds invested in such securities is not less than 70% of its total investment. Unit trust schemes—as prescribed in the guidelines on unit trust funds —are subject to cer- tain rules regarding diversification of assets, including limits on investments in unlisted securities, other collective investment schemes, and participation in futures contracts, war- rants, and options. In addition, there are provisions concerning investment limits— including rules on investments in securities of single issuers and of groups of companies, as well as in classes of securities—to ensure that the schemes have adequate spread and con- centration of investments. There are no controls on foreign firms trading in the corporate debt, equity, and derivative markets. Under FIC guidelines, however, the following require approval: (1) any proposed acquisition of 15% or more of the voting power by any one foreign interest or associated group, or foreign interests in the aggregate of 30% or more of the voting power of a Malay- sian company or business; (2) acquisition of assets or interests, mergers, and takeovers of companies and businesses in Malaysia, whether by Malaysian or foreign interests; or (3) any other proposed acquisition of assets or interests exceeding RM 10 million in value, whether by Malaysians or foreign interests. Foreign companies with no substantial business operations in Malaysia are not normally granted listing on the MSEB. Changes During 2003 April 1. Exporters were allowed to retain a portion of their export proceeds in foreign currency accounts with onshore licensed banks in Malaysia with overnight limits ranging between the equivalent of US$1 million and US$70 million or any other amount that has been approved (previously, the limit was between US$1 million and US$10 million). April 1. The overnight limit on foreign currency export proceeds that may be retained by resident exporters in foreign currency accounts with onshore licensed banks in Malaysia was raised to a range of between the equivalent of US$1 million and US$70 million from overnight limits of between US$1 million and US$10 million. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Resident accounts Exports and export proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 579 Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers April 1. The maximum amount of payment of profits, dividends, rental income, and interest to a nonresident on all bona fide investments that may be remitted without prior approval, but upon the completion of statistical forms, was increased to RM 50,000 a transaction, or its equivalent in foreign currency, from RM 10,000. Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Provisions specific to institutional investors Exchange arrangement March 7. Banking institutions, as a group, were permitted to extend ringgit overdraft fac i l i- ties not exceeding RM 500,000 in aggregate to a nonresident, provided that the credit facili- ties are fu l ly covered at all times by fixed deposits placed by the nonresident customer with the banking institutions extending the credit facilities. May 21. The threshold level for acquisition by foreign and Malaysian interests exempted from FIC approval was raised to RM 10 million from RM 5 million; acquisition proposals by licensed manufacturing companies were centralized at the MITI, while corporate pro- posals were centralized at the SC, and these proposals no longer required FIC considera- tion. June 17. Foreign equity holding in manufacturing projects was allowed up to 100% for all types of investments. May 31. The guidelines on un it trust funds (issued by the SC in 1997) were revised to in- clude investments in foreign securities traded in or under the rules of a foreign market with approval from the BNM, the SC, and other relevant authorities. Changes During 2004 April L Residents were allowed to sell forward nonexpert foreign currency receivables for ringgit or another foreign currency to an authorized dealer or an approved merchant bank for any purpose, provided that the transaction is supported by an underlying commitment to receive the currency. April 1. Residents with permitted foreign currency borrowing were allowed to enter into interest rate swaps with onshore licensed banks, approved merchant banks, or licensed offshore banks in Labuan, provided that the transaction is supported by a firm underlying commitment. Resident accounts April 1. Resident individuals with funds abroad were allowed to maintain nonexpert foreign currency accounts, onshore or offshore, without limit on the overnight balances. April 1. Resident individuals with funds abroad (not converted from ringgit) were allowed to maintain nonexpert foreign current accounts offshore without any l im it imposed on overnight balances. April 1. Resident companies with domestic borrowing were allowed to open nonexpert foreign currency accounts with licensed onshore banks in Malaysia to retain foreign cur- rency receivables other than export proceeds with no limit on the overnight balances, and resident companies without domestic borrowing were allowed to open nonexpert foreign currency accounts in licensed offshore banks in Labuan up to an overnight limit of $500,000 or its equivalent. April L Resident individuals were permitted to open foreign currency accounts to facilitate payments for education and employment overseas, with an aggregate overnight limit equivalent to US$150,000 with Labuan offshore banks (previously, the l im it was US$100,000) and US$50,000 with overseas banks. April 1. Resident individuals who have foreign currency funds were allowed to invest freely in any foreign currency products offered by onshore licensed banks. April 1. The amount of export proceeds that residents may retain in foreign currency ac- counts with licensed onshore banks was increased to the range of the equivalent of US$30 m i l l ion to US$100 m i l l ion from US$1 m i l l ion to US$70 million. April L The overnight limit on foreign currency export proceeds that may be retained by resident exporters in foreign currency accounts with onshore licensed banks in Malaysia was raised to a range between the equivalent of US$30 million and US$100 million from US$1 m i l l ion and US$70 m i l l ion. Exports and export proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 580 Capital transactions MALAYSIA Controls on capital and money market instruments April L COFE approval was required for the issuance of ringgit bonds in Malaysia by mul- tinational development institutions and foreign multinational corporations. Provisions specific to institutional investors April L Resident banks and nonbanks were permitted to extend ringgit loans to finance or refinance the purchase or construction of any immovable property in Malaysia (excluding financing for purchases of land only) up to a maximum of three property loans in aggregate. April L The limit on banking institutions for loans to nonresidents (excluding stockbroking companies, custodian banks, and correspondent banks) was raised to RM 10 million from RM 200,000. April L Licensed insurers and takaful (Islamic insurance) operators were allowed to invest abroad up to 5% of their margins of solvency and total assets, respectively; these entities were also allowed to invest up to 10% of net asset value in their own investment-linked funds. April L Unit trust management companies were allowed to invest abroad the fu ll amount of net asset value attributed to nonresidents and up to 10% of net asset value attributed to residents without prior COFE approval. In addition, fund/asset managers were allowed to invest abroad up to the full amount of investments of nonresident clients and up to 10% of investments of their resident clients. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Maldives is the Maldivian rufiyaa. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The rufiyaa is pegged to the dollar at the rate of Rf 12.80 per $1. The Maldives Monetary Authority (MM A) buys and sells currency at a spread of Rf 0.10, within which commercial banks and foreign exchange dealers must also operate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents The use of foreign currency for domestic payments is prohibited, and conversion between domestic and foreign currencies may be effected only by licensed entities. Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Yes. No. Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Resident Accounts 581 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 582 MALDIVES Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import operations may be conducted only after registration with and obtaining licenses from the Ministry of Trade and Industries (MTI). Open general licenses Licenses with quotas All goods may be imported under an OGL system. Licenses are issued on application. All imports of rice, wheat flour, and sugar are subject to quota. Other non tar iff measures Prohibitions are imposed on imports in accordance with UN sanctions. Import taxes and/or tariffs Duties are levied on all products other than rice, flour, and sugar. The tariff structure has 10 rates, ranging from zero for staple goods to 100% for cars and 200% for plastic bags, with an estimated average nominal duty rate of about 20%. Cigarettes are subject to a spe- cific rate of Rf 0.30 a cigarette or Rf 6 a package. The tariff rate on electronic equipment is 5%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Export licenses are issued by the MTI. The private sector may export all products. Yes. Exports of aquarium fish are subject to a quota. A 50% tax is levied on the export of ambergris. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES 583 Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Yes. n.r. With the exception of commercial banks, natural and juridical persons may not extend credit and charge interest without MM A approval. Investments require prior approval from the government. Foreign investors are required to provide at least 75% of their equity shares financed from outside Maldives. No. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gambling is not permitted in Maldives. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Effective August 24, 2003, the minimum reserve requirement for commercial banks is 30% (previously, 35%) of total demand and time deposit liabilities, regardless of the currency involved. Interest rate control exists only with respect to local currency, for which the annual rate of interest chargeable on loans and advances may not exceed 20%. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. n.r. Changes During 2003 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions August 24. The minimum reserve requirement of commercial banks was reduced to 30% from 35% of total demand and time deposit liabilities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position as of December 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Mali is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro at the rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. There is no tax on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. However, foreign exchange transfers are subject to a stamp duty of 0.6% with a m in imum levy of CFAF 600. In addi- tion, banks charge a commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered in its entirety to the treasury. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover with the prior authorization of the MOF to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. For cer- tain products, the duration of forward exchange rate cover may be extended to three months but cannot be renewed. For exports, the duration of forward exchange contracts may not exceed 120 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Mali is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC mem- bers and the Comoros) are made in euros or the currency of any other Operations Account country. All transactions among residents must be conducted in domestic currency. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A mu l t i la teral clearing agreement exists between the WAEMU members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jo in t ly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Most of the author- ity to supervise foreign exchange transactions has been delegated to authorized banks, which are required to report these operations to the MOF. The only operations that continue to require prior authorization of the MOF or the BCEAO are residents' investments abroad, domestic accounts in foreign exchange, and residents' accounts abroad. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Authorization from the Directorate of External Commerce, issued after a favorable ruling by the MOF, is required to sell, import, export, or deal in precious and semiprecious metals. 584 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency MALI 585 Domestic trade in gold and other precious materials or fossils is permitted only for persons of Malian na t iona l i ty or licensed nationals of other countries with which Mali has a recip- rocal agreement who hold professional identity cards. There are no controls on holding gold for noncommercial purposes. Imports and exports of gold require authorization from the MOF. The following are exempt from this requirement: (1) gold imported or exported by the MOF or the BCEAO; (2) manufactured articles containing m inor quantities of gold, such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles; and (3) gold articles with a combined weight of up to 500 grams imported or exported by travelers. The export of CFA banknotes by travelers is free of restrictions, but the BCEAO does not repurchase exported banknotes. Transfers of BCEAO banknotes by mail or other means to authorized intermediaries and their branches located in non-WAEMU countries are prohibited. Nonresidents may reexport foreign banknotes in amounts exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 1 m i l l ion, but documentation demonstrating the importation of the foreign banknotes or the ir purchase through a means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks is required. Residents traveling to non-WAEMU countries may export an amount up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 m i l l ion a person in foreign currency. Residents and nonresident travelers may bring in un l im i ted amounts of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO. Nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes or other means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Nonresident travelers must declare to customs foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 1 m i l l ion upon entry. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MOF, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Yes. Yes. Resident travelers may open foreign exchange accounts abroad to deposit foreign currency or income acquired dur ing their stay abroad. However, funds held in these accounts must be repatriated w i th in 30 days of return. Approval required Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Prior MOF authorization is required to open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 586 MALI Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts Nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes or by a cen- tral bank maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. These accounts may not be overdrawn without the authorization of both the MOF and the BCEAO. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresidents may freely debit accounts denominated in CFA francs to purchase foreign currency on the off ic ial market. Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements A domiciliation requirement exists for all imports exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 5 million. Preshipment inspection An inspection for quality and price is required. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no import licensing requirements, but imports are required to be registered and permits are issued automatically. Import taxes and/or tariffs The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). Imports are also subject to a customs duty of up to 5% and a customs service fee of 5%. Some goods are exempt from these charges. Tariff rates are ad valorem (except for those on petroleum products) and are based on c.i.f. values. Petroleum is subject to a variable levy. Imports are subject to additional taxes ranging from 7.5% to 55%, which have been suspended since 1994. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports to foreign countries must be recorded with an authorized bank, and all export pro- ceeds, excluding proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries, must be repatriated through the BCEAO. Proceeds must be surrendered within 30 days of the payment due date or within 120 days of shipment if no payment date is specified in the sales contract. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Domiciliation All exports exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 5 million must be domiciled, except for transfers made through the intermediary of the post administration, exports without pay- ments involved, and certain special exports. Export licenses Export taxes No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisible transactions to France, Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are permitted freely. Supporting documents are not required for payments for invisibles to other countries under CFAF 300,000. Trade- related payments above this amount are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 587 Investment-related payments Authorized banks may transfer, on their own responsibility, profit payments based on supporting documentation. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Residents visiting non-WAEMU member states may carry up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million in non-CFA banknotes. Any excess must be carried in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. Indicative limits/bona fide test Resident travelers must present a ticket and passport or identity card to an authorized intermediary (bank or exchange house) for issue of foreign exchange. Personal payments Foreign workers' wages Credit card use abroad Payment of costs for study abroad and medical expenses are allowed freely on the basis of supporting documents. The transfer of salaries is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro- vided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period or that there is a reciprocity agreement with the country of the foreign national. Credit cards issued by specialized resident financial intermediaries and authorized banks may be used abroad. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions with countries that are not WAEMU members must be repatriated. Proceeds, except those from WAEMU member countries, must be surrendered within one month after the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions All investments outside the WAEMU by residents require prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of such investments must be financed with borrowing from abroad. Investment from WAEMU countries is permitted freely. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases may be effected freely, but they must be conducted through a domestic bank. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue, marketing, and sale of any type of security of foreign governments, public enti- ties, foreign companies, or international institutions require the prior approval of the RCPSFM. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require prior authorization of the MOF, which is subject to documentary requirements. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents are free to transfer these securities abroad. If the purpose of these transactions is to place Malian resident institutions under foreign control, the foreign investors concerned are required to report in advance to the MOF. The same rule applies to disinvestments. Foreign currency proceeds from these transactions must be surrendered to an authorized domestic bank. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases may be made freely, but they must be conducted through a domestic bank. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 588 MALI Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases may be made freely, but they must be conducted through a domestic bank. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require prior approval of the RCPSFM. Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization from the MOF is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents are free to sell money market instruments abroad. Sales constituting disinvest- ment are subject to prior disclosure. The foreign currency proceeds of such sales or disin- vestment must be surrendered to a licensed banking intermediary. The issue abroad of money market instruments by residents is governed by the provisions applicable to loans. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Prior MOF authorization is required. Purchase abroad by residents Prior MOF authorization is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents These instruments, which are virtually nonexistent, are governed by the regulations generally applicable to securities and investments. Residents are allowed to purchase abroad call and put options in commodities and securities, subject to observance of all regulations governing these transactions. Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents may not purchase commodities or securities abroad for the purpose of delivering them locally w i th in the context of a put option contract. Put options must be on assets that can be acquired locally by the resident seller for delivery abroad in execution of the contract. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Special controls apply for borrowing outside the BCEAO. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The granting of these credits is subject to the following provisions: (1) any claims gener- ated by the export of goods must be collected, and the corresponding amounts must be repatriated through the BCEAO within 30 days of the due date of the payment stipulated in the commercial contract. In principle, the grace period should not exceed 120 days follow- ing the arrival of the goods at their destination; and (2) any claims generated by the provi- sion of services must also be collected and then surrendered on the exchange market w i th in one month of the due date of the payment, for which no limit is set. There are no controls on the granting of these credits; their repayment is generally author- ized, subject to the licensed intermediary being presented with documentation attesting to the authenticity of the commercial transaction or to the provision of services. The granting of financial credits is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. The transfer of funds abroad for this purpose requires prior MOF approval. There are no controls on the granting of these credits. However, if these transactions are carried out between a direct investment enterprise established in Mali and its parent com- pany abroad, they are considered to be direct investments and, as a result, are subject to prior disclosure to the MOF for statistical purposes. These operations must be effected through an authorized intermediary. The granting of guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. The transfer of funds abroad requires an exchange permit approved by the MOF. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 589 To residents from nonresidents There are no controls on the granting of these facilities. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment All outward investments by residents require the prior authorization of the MOF. These investments may be financed up to 75% by external borrowing. MOF authorization is not needed for purchases of foreign securities issued or sold in WAEMU member states if the issue or sale by nonresidents has been authorized by the RCPSFM. Inward direct investment Inward direct investments between WAEMU member states are free, but they must be declared to the MOF for statistical purposes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Liquidation of a resident's foreign investments must be reported for information purposes to the MOF. Reinvestment of the proceeds of liquidation requires the ministry's prior au- thorization. If the reinvestment was not authorized, proceeds of the liquidation must be repatriated w i th in one month through an authorized intermediary. Foreign investments may be transferred freely from Mali and must be reported for statistical purposes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization of the MOF is required. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans The proceeds of the sale or liquidation of foreign direct investment or the sale of real estate may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in francs, upon presenta- tion of supporting documentation to an authorized bank. By residents to nonresidents Prior authorization of the MOF is required. To residents from nonresidents Loans contracted by residents with nonresidents for domestic use must be transacted through authorized intermediaries in all cases, unless specifically exempted by the MOF. The authorized intermediaries ensure the proper execution of the transaction. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Payments relating to inheritances and dowries are generally authorized. Payments in con- nection with gifts or donations, however, require the prior authorization of the MOF. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants acquiring resident status must submit supporting documents to the local bank for the payment of debts contracted abroad while they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants These transfers are allowed upon presentation of proof of emigration. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Licensed intermediaries are free to borrow abroad. Other credit institutions are governed by general provisions applicable to other residents. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and f inanc ial institutions are not authorized to hold liquid assets outside the WAEMU zone, except to meet the needs of their current operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) There are no controls on commercial credit operations of this type; the prior authorization of the MOF and the BCEAO is required for loans and financial credits. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending to residents in foreign exchange is not permitted. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Prior authorization of the RCPSFM is required. Prior authorization of the MOF is required. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 590 MALI Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Insurance Market Conference. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 30, 1994. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malta is the Maltese lira. Malta has 24 denominations of gold coins, 52 silver coins, and 1 cupronickel coin that are legal tender but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The exchange rate of the Maltese lira is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies. The basket consists of the dollar (10%), the euro (70%), and the pound sterling (20%). A fixed spread of approximately 0.125% is applied to the middle rate to compute the buying and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank of Malta (CBM) and credit and financial institutions. These transactions may be conducted in dollars, euros, or pounds sterling, normally in amounts of not less than the equivalent of Lm 150,000. The CBM also quotes indicative rates for other currencies based on international market rates. There is no limit on the spread between the buying and selling rates that authorized dealers may quote in the foreign exchange market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The CBM may provide forward cover directly to government departments and public sector agencies. In exceptional circumstances, the CBM may also engage in forward transactions with credit institutions that are permitted to provide forward cover to their resident customers. Forward rates are based on interest rate differentials between domestic and international money market rates. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. A banking agreement with Libya operates through the respective central banks to clear payments in connection with commercial transactions between the two countries. Out- standing balances are settled in convertible currencies at the end of each calendar quarter. The CBM, as agent for the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs (MOFEA), adminis- ters exchange controls. In turn, the CBM has delegated authority to approve most bona fide current and capital account transactions to authorized dealers (i.e., credit institutions and foreign exchange bureaus). The MOFEA has delegated responsibility for the approval of inward foreign direct invest- ment to the Malta Financial Services Authority (MFSA), which is the regulator of financial services in Malta and is also responsible for the registration of companies. 591 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 592 MALTA International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions apply on payments and f inanc ial transfers to the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Liberia, Rwanda, and the UNITA movement in Angola. All assistance except for human i tar ian assistance to Georgia is prohibited. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, assets of certain individuals associated with the former governments of Iraq and the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and organizations and other entities identified as terrorists or as sponsors of terrorism are frozen. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Trade in unref ined gold and gold for industrial use may be undertaken only by licensed gold dealers in accordance with the Gold (Control) Regulations (1996). Residents are per- mitted to hold or acquire manufactured articles of gold, including coins. Controls on external trade Only licensed dealers are permitted to trade in unref ined gold or gold for industrial use. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On January 1, 2003, all controls on exports and imports of domestic and foreign currency banknotes were eliminated for all permitted transactions. However, all exports and imports of banknotes (foreign or domestic) in excess of the equivalent of Lm 5,000 (prior to January 1, 2003, Lm 15,000) must be declared to customs. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency There is no l im it on the amount that residents may export. Nonresident travelers may export foreign currency up to the amount they brought into the country. Nonresidents entering Malta should declare to customs any imports of domestic currency in order to facilitate their reexport. Nonresidents entering Malta should declare to customs any imports of foreign currency in order to facilitate the ir reexport. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Effective January 1, 2003, resident individuals may hold up to the equivalent of Lm 100,000 (previously, Lm 50,000) a year in savings and time deposit accounts denomi- nated in foreign currency, provided that these funds are held therein for a minimum period of six months. Effective the same date, residents may also hold up to Lm 20,000 (previ- ously, Lm 15,000) in demand deposit accounts with authorized dealers, provided the funds originated from abroad. Credit balances in these accounts may be debited with payments in foreign currency related to current account transactions. Export companies may deposit export proceeds in these accounts for a maximum period of one year. Corporations that act as commission agent on behalf of foreign companies may receive and deposit with local banks foreign currency payments made by local companies. Effective January 1, 2003, resident businesses in the retailing sector may hold up to the equivalent of Lm 20,000 (previously, Lm 15,000) in cash or in foreign currency accounts with local banks. These accounts may be debited with payments in foreign currency related to current account transactions. Approval required Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 593 Held abroad Effective January 1, 2003, residents may open savings and time deposit accounts with non- resident banking institutions and may deposit a maximum amount of the equivalent of Lm 100,000 a year (previously, Lm 50,000), provided the holding period is at least six months. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Conversion is allowed freely for all current transactions and permitted capital transactions. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be credited with funds from external sources or with proceeds from permitted activities carried out in Malta. These accounts may be credited with funds from external sources or with proceeds from permitted activities carried out in Malta. Convertible into foreign currency No. Blocked accounts Balances in blocked accounts usually originate from the liquidation of investments in real estate in Malta. These balances are retained temporarily until the relevant legal and financial procedures have been completed. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports may be made freely, provided that supporting docu- ments —including the customs entry form (for imports with a minimum value of the equiva- lent of Lm 20,000) and, in some cases, an import license—are submitted to an authorized dealer. Domiciliation requirements Import payments must be effected through authorized dealers. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Where import licenses are required, they must be presented to an authorized dealer before payments may be effected. Import licenses and other nontariff measures The Commerce Division of the MOFEA administers certain import controls in accordance with the Importation (Control) Regulations. Negative list Licenses are required only for imports of items that need clearance for health, safety, secu- rity, or environmental reasons, as well as for certain items such as fresh and frozen fish, handmade lace, and gold and silver filigree. Open general licenses All products not on the negative list may be imported without a license. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Imports originating from non-EU countries may be subject to import duties. Additionally, a number of imports are subject to protective levies. Imports of barley, maize, hard and soft wheat, and certain petroleum products are subject to state monopoly. Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be received within six months of shipment. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 594 MALTA Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers. However, exporters may retain export proceeds in foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized dealers for up to one year to make import payments connected with their exporting business. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of works of art and certain essential goods require a license in accordance with the Exportation (Control) Regulations. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles may be made freely, but supporting documents must be presented to authorized dealers before payment is effected. Payments for travel Personal payments Quantitative limits Effective January 1, 2003, there are no limits on payments for travel. Most payments must be supported by relevant documentation. Effective January 1, 2003, the annual limit each resident may transfer abroad to other family members is the equivalent of Lm 20,000 (previously, Lm 10,000) a person a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Supporting documents must be presented to an authorized dealer. Other payments Residents are not permitted to enter into long-term assurance contracts with nonresident companies outside of EU or EEA member states. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Proceeds must be received within six months of payment and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Funds deposited in foreign currency accounts with authorized dealers may be retained for a maximum period of one year and may be used for export-related payments. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Nonresidents are permitted to purchase securities that are listed on the Malta Stock Ex- change. However, approval must be obtained from the MFSA to purchase or acquire unlisted securities. Credit institutions and insurance companies are permitted to purchase these instruments abroad, subject to prudential limits. Effective January 1, 2003, fund management companies are permitted to invest up to 15% of the funds they collect from their residential customers (previously, 10%) in foreign currency-denominated instruments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 595 Effective January 1, 2003, individuals and nonfinancial companies are allowed to invest abroad up to the equivalent of Lm 100,000 (previously, Lm 50,000) a year; investments may not be made in financial assets with maturities of less than six months. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Yes. On money market instruments On collective investment securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. In addi- tion, the approval of the CBM is required if the money market investment has an original maturity of less than six months. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls apply to all these transactions. Effective January 1, 2003, local banks may extend credit in domestic currency to nonresidents carrying out economic activities locally. Export proceeds must be received within six months of shipment, unless otherwise authorized. Effective January 1, 2003, residents may extend credit to nonresidents for periods exceeding six months (previously, one year). To residents from nonresidents Effective January 1, 2003, residents are permitted to borrow from nonresidents as long as the original maturity period exceeds six months (previously, one year). Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment There are no limits on the amount that resident individuals may transfer abroad for direct investment purposes. Approval for such investment, however, is subject to the condition that the resident acquire a controlling interest in the overseas company. Direct investment by nonresidents is usually permitted in all sectors except real estate, wholesale retail trade, and public utilities. Nonresident participation may not exceed 50% of equity in businesses involved in information technology services. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents All applications for real estate acquisition by nonresidents require MOFEA approval. Nonresidents may acquire one piece of immovable property in Malta for their own residence (subject to MOFEA approval), on the conditions that the funds originate from overseas and that the cost of the property to be acquired exceeds Lm 30,000 in the case of an apartment and Lm 50,000 in the case of a house; additional pieces of built-up property may be acquired in specially designated areas of the country. Nonresidents are not allowed to engage in real estate property transactions, except for sales of properties that were acquired with the approval of the MOFEA. Effective January 1, 2003, loans extended by residents to nonresidents must be for maturities exceeding six months (previously, one year). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 596 MALTA To residents from nonresidents Effective January 1, 2003, residents may borrow from nonresidents if the original maturity exceeds six months (previously, one year). Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) The limit is the equivalent of Lm 20,000 (prior to January 1, 2003, Lm 10,000) for all gifts. There are no limits on endowments, inheritances, and legacies. Credit and financial institutions are permitted to borrow from nonresident sources if the maturity period of the borrowings exceeds six months. Effective January 1, 2003, borrow- ings for periods of six months or less require CBM approval (previously, one year or less). Effective January 1, 2003, financial and investment services operators may maintain accounts with foreign banks abroad on behalf of their clients. These accounts are to be used strictly for the temporary deposit of funds received from clients, prior to the use of the funds for new instruments. Details of these accounts must be reported to the CBM immediately after they are opened. Credit and financial institutions may lend to nonresidents in foreign currency if the maturity period of the borrowings exceeds six months. Borrowings for periods of six months or less require CBM approval. Credit and f inanc ial institutions may also lend any amount to non- residents in local currency for local investment. Loan facilities may be provided for any purpose, including the purchase of securities in the local capital market, provided that the original term of maturity of the loan exceeds six months (prior to January 1, 2003, one year). Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is permitted for loans with maturities of more than six months. Borrowing with maturities of six months or less requires CBM approval. Open foreign exchange position limits Open foreign exchange position limits are subject to prudential limits set by the MFSA. Provisions specific to institutional investors Overseas portfolio investments by insurance companies are f u l ly liberalized, but remain subject to foreign currency limits set by the MFSA. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Investment management companies are permitted to invest, without l im i t, eligible funds originating from both resident and nonresident sources abroad. Collective investment fund companies that collect funds in local currency from residents with the aim of investing in local currency-denominated securities on the local market may invest up to 15% of shareholders' funds in foreign currency assets (prior to January 1, 2003, 10%). There are no limits, however, on the amount that may be invested by resident shareholders' funds. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Changes During 2003 January 1. All controls on exports and imports of domestic and foreign currency banknotes were eliminated for permitted transactions. The amount at which imports and exports of foreign or local currency must be declared to customs was reduced to the equivalent of Lm 5,000 from Lm 15,000. January 1. Resident individuals were allowed to hold up to the equivalent of Lm 100,000 (previously, Lm 50,000) a year in savings and time deposit accounts denominated in for- eign currency in resident and nonresident banking institutions, provided the holding period is at least six months. January 1. Residents were allowed to hold up to the equivalent of Lm 20,000 (previously Lm 15,000) in demand deposit accounts denominated in foreign exchange with authorized dealers, provided the funds originated from abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 597 January 1. Resident businesses in the retailing sector were allowed to hold up to the equivalent of Lm 20,000 (previously Lm 15,000) in cash or foreign currency accounts with local banks. January L Residents were allowed to open savings and time deposit accounts with non- resident banking institution, and the maximum balance in these accounts was increased to the equivalent of Lm 100,000 a year from Lm 50,000, provided the holding period is at least six months. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 1. The limits on payments for travel were eliminated. January 1. The limit on personal payments to family members abroad was increased to the equivalent of Lm 20,000 a person a year from Lm 10,000. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments January L Fund management companies were permitted to invest up to 15% (previously, 10%) of the funds they collect from their residential customers in foreign currency- denominated instruments. January 1. The l im it on foreign portfolio investments denominated in foreign currencies by individuals and nonfmanc ial companies was raised to the equivalent of Lm 100,000 from Lm 50,000 a year, and investments in financial assets with maturities of less than six months were not allowed. Controls on credit operations January L Local banks were permitted to extend credit in domestic currency to nonresi- dents carrying out economic activities locally. January 1. The minimum maturity of loans extended to or by nonresidents was reduced to six months from one year. Controls on personal capital transactions January L The m in imum maturity of loans extended to or by nonresidents was reduced to six months from one year. January L The l im it on gifts was increased to the equivalent of Lm 20,000 from Lm 10,000. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. Borrowings abroad for periods of six months or less require CBM approval (previously, one year). Provisions specific to institutional investors January I. Financial and investment services operators may maintain accounts with foreign banks abroad on behalf of their clients. January L Credit and financial institutions were permitted to borrow from or lend to non- residents if the maturity of the loans exceeds six months (previously, one year). January L The amount of investment that collective investment fund companies that collect funds in local currency from residents with the aim of investing in local currency- denominated assets was raised to 15% from 10%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MARSHALL ISLANDS (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 21, 1992. Currency The currency of the Marshall Islands is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by three commercial banks, which are authorized foreign exchange dealers and are regulated by a statutory Banking Commissioner. The banks buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in the international markets. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restrictions. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Outward and inward payments may be settled in dollars or in any other convertible currency. The Marshall Islands participates in PACER and PICTA. Administration of control There are no exchange control regulations. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad No. No. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Commercial banks are not permitted to transfer abroad more than 30% of deposits received from residents. In practice, this regulation is not strictly enforced and does not prevent banks from transferring deposits abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad The U.S. dollar is used as domestic currency, and no distinction is made between accounts in U.S. dollars held domestically and those held abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency The U.S. dollar is used as domestic currency, and balances may be converted into foreign currency without restriction. 598 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MARSHALL ISLANDS 599 Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports are not subject to licensing requirements, but importers must obtain a business license. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of some products are prohibited for environmental, health, safety, or social reasons. Specific and ad valorem duties are levied on imports. Ad valorem duties range from 5% to 150%. Most items are subject to an 8% tariff rate, while higher rates are applied to motor vehicles (15%), gasoline (20%), and alcoholic drinks (25%). Specific duties are applied to motor vehicles whose value cannot be determined; cigarettes and other tobacco products (excluding cigars, which have a tariff rate of 150%); soft drinks; beer; wine; and spirits. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports are not subject to licensing requirements, taxes, or quantitative restrictions. The exportation of copra and its by-products is conducted solely by the government-owned Tobolar Copra Processing Plant, Inc. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 600 MARSHALL ISLANDS Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. Foreign investors are required to submit applications to the Registrar of Corporations and obtain a license in order to engage in business or to acquire an interest in a business in the Marshall Islands. Controls on liquidation of direct investment n.a. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreigners are prohibited from owning land, but investors may obtain long-term leases for up to 50 years with an option to renew on land needed for their business. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n .a. n .a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 19, 1999. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Maur i tan ia is the Mauritanian ouguiya. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The daily o f f ic ial exchange rate is determined in the Extended Exchange Market (EMM) session of the previous day. The Central Bank of Mauritania (CBM) decides the extent of its intervention in the EMM based on observed and foreseeable market pressures; the reserve accumulation target; and the actual rates observed in transactions recorded in the preceding days by banks and ex- change bureaus. Based on the central rate, the CBM uses a fixed margin of ±0.375% to obtain bid and offer rates, which are used in all CBM foreign exchange-ouguiya transac- tions with the treasury. All CBM foreign exchange transactions with banks and foreign exchange bureaus are carried out in the EMM sessions. In addition to the CBM and the National Industry and Mining Society, which participates only through sell orders, the EMM is open to banks and exchange bureaus that have paid a guarantee deposit. In addi- tion, effective November 30, 2003, exchange bureaus must deposit 2.5% of the amount of any buy order exceeding the equivalent of $20,000 (previously, there was a ceiling on buy and sell orders by exchange bureaus). This deposit is paid to the counterparty if the order is accepted; otherwise, it is refunded to the exchange bureau. A bank may not buy or sell more than the equivalent of 8% of its net capital and reserves in dollars at any one session of the EMM. Effective July 9, 2003, the CBM requires banks to report weekly purchases and sales of foreign exchange equivalent to $10,000 or higher. Banks and exchange bureaus may freely determine the bid and offer rates and commissions they use in transactions with their customers and among themselves. The average exchange rate is applied to foreign clearing transactions of the Postal Administration; this exchange rate is applied also to re- mittances through the Postal Administration by Maur i tan ian workers residing abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Yes. An inoperative arrangement exists within the framework of the Arab Maghreb Union. Administration of control is vested in the CBM, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the Ministry of Commerce. Exchange control authority to approve current international transactions is delegated to authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus. International security restrictions n.a. 601 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 602 MAURITANIA Payments arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. All imports and exports of gold, except manufactured articles containing small quantities of gold, require prior authorization from the CBM. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic banknotes and coins. CBM permission is required for residents to export foreign currency exceeding the equiva- lent of $3,000, and nonresidents must declare amounts in excess of this limit; in both cases, documentary evidence of the source of the funds must be presented. If nonresidents wish to repurchase amounts exceeding the equivalent of $1,000 previously sold for ouguiyas, they must present a receipt of sale from a bank or an exchange bureau. Nonresident holders of foreign accounts denominated in a foreign currency or in convertible ouguiyas and main- tained in a licensed banking intermediary may export any amount of traveler's checks de- nominated in foreign currencies or foreign banknotes withdrawn from foreign exchange accounts. Yes. Imports of foreign banknotes exceeding the equivalent of $3,000 must be declared. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Effective November 30, 2003, commissions of 1.0% and 1.25% apply to withdrawals from dollar accounts of banknotes and traveler's checks, respectively. Held domestically Held abroad Residents may open accounts denominated in convertible foreign currencies, and these accounts may be credited and debited freely. Licensed banks and foreign exchange bureaus may open freely accounts with banks abroad to accommodate foreign exchange market transactions. Other residents are not allowed to maintain accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency New convertible accounts in domestic currency may not be opened. Those that existed prior to 2000 may be operated in accordance with the provisions of Circular No. GR/005/2000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Licensed intermediary banks may operate freely nonresident convertible accounts and tran- sit accounts on behalf of nonresident individuals and juridical persons. Nonresident con- vertible accounts may be credited with (1) transfers from abroad or from another foreign account; (2) proceeds from the cashing of checks drawn on a foreign bank or on another foreign account opened in a Mauritanian bank to the order of the account holder; (3) trans- fers issued by a licensed intermediary bank by order of a resident in payment of transac- tions authorized by the exchange control regulations; (4) undocumented transfers in ougui- yas from the holder's account up to the equivalent of $6,000 a year; and (5) proceeds from the surrender of foreign exchange held in the account on the foreign exchange market (banknotes, however, whether foreign or issued by the CBM, may not be deposited). These accounts may be debited for (1) foreign exchange surrendered on the foreign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 603 market, funds to be transferred abroad, and withdrawals of traveler's checks denominated in a foreign currency by the holder; (2) transfers in favor of another foreign account or a resident; (3) checks issued by the holder of the account in favor of another nonresident or a resident; and (4) withdrawals of banknotes issued by the CBM. Transit accounts may be opened freely by resident consignees on their books in the names of shipping companies. Nonresidents may open domestic currency accounts, and balances on these accounts are freely transferable. Existing convertible ouguiya accounts may be credited in the same manner as foreign exchange accounts. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Existing nonresident accounts in ouguiyas may be converted, but new convertible accounts may not be opened. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Imports exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 must be inspected by the Societe Generate de Surveillance (SGS) before shipment. The SGS provides the CBM with copies of import documentation. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Upon presentation of the advance import notification, the importer may purchase foreign exchange from an authorized bank or an exchange bureau. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports of a few goods, such as arms and alcoholic beverages, are prohibited for reasons of health or public policy. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Four duty rates apply: zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%. In addition, a statistical tax of 3% is levied. Goods that are imported by some public enterprises or with external financing are exempt from all import duties. The fourth phase of the tariff reform is in effect. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exporters o f f i sh are required to surrender their export proceeds to the central bank. The CBM immediately sells 70% of these proceeds on the EMM and deposits the remaining 30% in the exporter's foreign currency account. Financing requirements n.r. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Export certificates —which must specify the quantity, value, and destination of all goods- are processed by the customs valuation office (CVO); the CBM receives a copy for information purposes. Some exports require an LC. Exports exceeding the equivalent of UM 20,000 in value must be domiciled. Exports of goods require only a certificate endorsed by the CVO. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 604 Export taxes MAURITANIA A tax is levied on exports o f f i sh and crustaceans at rates ranging from 8% to 20% for specialized catches, and at a rate of 5% for shrimp and crayfish. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All payments for inv is ib les may be effected freely. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Total or partial repayments of foreign capital invested in Mauritania, as well as capital gains therefrom, are permitted freely in accordance with Circular No. GR/006/1999. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages There are restrictions on payments of fam i ly maintenance and alimony, but information is not available on other personal payments. Yes. Yes. Foreign workers' wages may be transferred freely, usually through foreign exchange accounts. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated w i th in four months. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital transactions are subject to exchange control. Outward capital transfers require CBM approval and are controlled, but inward capital transfers are normally permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases of securities of private enterprises are permitted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The facilities for these transactions do not exist at present. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are subject to CBM authorization. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Securities brokerage operations may be carried out only by residents who have received CBM approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 605 Purchase abroad by residents The purchase abroad of bonds by residents requires CBM authorization. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment All credit transactions, guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities by residents to nonresidents are controlled. The investment code (Law No. 2002-03) governs direct investments and all associated incentives and benefits. Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment There are no controls on the l iqu ida t ion of direct investments, and their transfer is guaranteed by law. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position limits On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The limits on commercial banks' net open foreign positions in foreign exchange are a maximum of 10% of net capital for each currency and a maximum of 20% of net capital for all currencies. Provisions specific to institutional investors n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 606 MAURITANIA Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement Resident accounts July 9. The CBM required banks to report weekly purchases and sales of foreign exchange equivalent to $10,000 or higher. November 30. The ceiling on buy and sell orders by exchange bureaus was replaced with a deposit requirement of 2.5% of all buy orders exceeding the equivalent of $20,000. November 30. Commissions of 1.0% and 1.25% were authorized for withdrawals from dollar accounts in the form of banknotes and traveler's checks, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 29, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Mauritius is the Mauritian rupee. Commemorative gold coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the Mauritian rupee is determined by supply and demand conditions in the foreign exchange market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Commercial banks are free to provide forward exchange cover to their clients. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with the Financial Intelligence and Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2002, cash payments in excess of MUR 350,000 or its equivalent are prohibited except in the case of specific transactions involving banks or financial institutions. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Mauritius is a member of COMES A and RIFF. Yes. No. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions are imposed in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes or as personal jewelry and ornaments. 607 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 608 MAURITIUS Controls on external trade A permit is required to import gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted There is no distinction between accounts of residents and nonresidents in Mauritius. Resident natural and juridical persons may hold accounts in foreign currencies with commercial banks. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Companies and ind iv idua ls may ma in ta in accounts denominated in foreign currencies with commercial banks. Companies and ind iv idua ls may maintain accounts denominated in Mauritian rupees with Category 1 banks. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses used as exchange licenses For goods that are not controlled for consumer protection purposes, an import permit issued by the Ministry of Trade and Shipping is required for foreign exchange to be released. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products require phytosanitary inspection. Imports of sugarcane are prohibited. Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Most goods are imported under OGLs. When necessary, imports of potatoes and salt are subject to quotas. Tariff rates range up to 80%. Certain items are subject to excise duties ranging from 15% to 360%. Imports of petroleum products, certain types of rice and flour that are government subsi- dized, and 50% of cement imports are under state monopoly. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS 609 Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses With quotas A permit is required for exports of textile products to Canada and the United States. Mauritius abides by quotas on exports of textiles and clothing to the United States and Canada under bilateral export restraint agreements. The volume of sugar exports to the EU is restricted under the Sugar Protocol of the Lome Convention; that to the United States is subject to quotas. Export taxes n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no controls on the purchase by nonresidents of shares listed on the stock ex- change. However, under the Noncitizens (Property Restriction) Act, the authorization of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Internal Affairs is required for nonresidents to purchase shares not listed on the stock exchange. In addition, purchases must be financed by funds transferred from banks abroad. Yes. No. No. Yes. No. Under the Noncitizens (Property Restriction) Act, prior permission of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Internal Affairs is required for noncitizens to acquire property in Mauritius. Additionally, purchases must be financed by funds transferred from abroad through the bank ing system. Controls on personal capital transactions No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 610 MAURITIUS Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Deposits in foreign currency at Category 2 banks are not subject to cash reserve requirements. Investments in shares require Bank of Mauritius (BOM) approval. Nonresidents may invest in shares of Category 1 banks that are listed on the Stock Ex- change of Mauritius (SEM). Authorization from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Internal Affairs is required in the case of investments in Category 1 banks not listed on the SEM and locally incorporated Category 2 banks if the bank holds any immovable property in Mauritius. Holdings in excess of 15% of a bank's capital by residents or nonresidents require BOM approval. A daily overall foreign exchange exposure limit of 15% in relation to Tier I capital is applicable to Category 1 banks. Daily overall foreign exchange exposure limits of 15% and 75% of required net owned funds apply to foreign exchange dealers and moneychangers, respectively. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws Noncitizens are not allowed to hold more than 15% of shares in listed sugar companies. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position as of March 31, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 12, 1946. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Mexico is the Mexican peso. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements The exchange rate of the peso is determined freely in the foreign exchange market. On March 20, 2003, the Exchange Commission announced the establishment of a rules-based mechanism to reduce the rate of international reserves accumulation. Under this mecha- nism, the Bank of Mexico (BOM) sells dollars directly in the foreign exchange market according to the following scheme every quarter: the BOM announces the total amount of dollars it will supply to the currency market in the following three-month period —the total amount of dollars to be sold during a quarter will equal 50% of the net international re- serves accumulated during the previous quarter, not including the cumulative amount of dollars sold through the auction mechanism during the same period (sales will be sus- pended if the amount to be sold fa l ls below US$125 million). Based on the total amount of dollars, the BOM auctions on a daily basis a fixed amount of dollars following a preestab- lished schedule (the daily amount to be sold is determined according to the number of working days in the current quarter; the auctions began on May 2, 2003). On March 12, 2004, the BOM modified this mechanism to reduce volatility in the daily auction of dollars. The main change is that the sales of dollars are carried out during the following four quar- ters, with one-fourth of the established amount being auctioned during each quarter. This procedure is repeated each quarter. Further, if the amount to be sold on any day is less than US$2 million, the daily sales will be US$2 m i l l ion un t il the total amount of reserves to be auctioned during that quarter is depleted. No. No. Commercial banks are allowed to enter into exchange rate, stock exchange, and other de- rivative transactions. Authorization from the BOM is required, which is granted on the basis of certain organizational, legal, and risk management requirements. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. There is a payments arrangement with the Central Bank of Malaysia. In accordance with the Reciprocal Credits and Payments Agreements entered into by the BOM with the central banks of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela, payments to these countries may be made through the BOM and the central bank of the country concerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAI A. A similar payments arrange- ment exists with the central banks of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Mexico is also a member of the NAFTA. 6 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 612 Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On imports Domestic currency MEXICO There are clearing agreements in accordance with the regional payments agreements referred to above. No. No. No. No. The customs law requires that persons bringing into the country an amount of cash, checks, or a combination of both exceeding the equivalent of US$10,000 declare it to the customs authorities. Foreign currency The regulations governing imports of domestic currency apply. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Commercial banks are permitted to hold foreign exchange deposits in checking accounts payable in Mexico, provided the holders of such accounts are (1) residents of the 20-kilometer-long strip along the northern border area of Mexico or living in Baja Califor- nia or Baja California Sur, or (2) firms domiciled in Mexico. Commercial banks are also permitted to hold foreign exchange deposits from firms established in Mexico, provided such deposits are payable abroad. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Commercial banks are permitted to hold foreign exchange deposits only in checking accounts payable in Mexico with respect to official representations of foreign governments and international organizations, including foreign individuals employed in such entities and foreign correspondents. In such cases, they must be registered in Mexico with the appropriate authority. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs MEXICO 613 Import licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy (MOE) are required for 243 of the 11,927 items on which Mexico's general import tariff is levied, except for temporary im- ports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export industries. New licenses are is- sued, provided that the criteria set by the MOE are satisfied. On average, import licenses are valid for a period of one year, but for some sensitive products, they are valid only for six months. For some products, "open-ended" import licenses may be granted, allowing imports to be effected during a period of six months to one year, subject to an overall limit. Depending on the importer's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. On January 1, 2004, import license requirements for new vehicles were eliminated (previously, imports of new cars by a given manufacturer were limited to 143% of the export levels of the same manufacturer). Imports of used cars are subject to the prior approval of the MOE, but only special-purpose vehicles that are different from those made locally are allowed. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports of raw materials and intermediate products require agricultural certificates, inspec- tion, and lab analysis. Goods covered by the Convention on International Trade in Endan- gered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora are prohibited. Other nontariff regulations, such as those related to national security concerns; health department standards; ecological and environmental regulations; and restrictions on drugs, narcotic substances, nuclear energy, and toxic and hazardous materials, apply to about 1,600 of the 11,927 items of Mexico's general import tar iff. About 3,672 tariff items are subject to qualitative examinations by customs to f u l f i ll certain Mexican consumer standards. Import tariffs range from zero to 30%, with higher rates for a few products such as fructose (subject to a 210% ta r i f f) and steel products, clothing, footwear, and leather goods (subject to a 35% tar iff). Effective January 1, 2004, a 50% tariff applies to imports of new cars from all countries except EU and NAFTA countries. Imports from members of the LAI A are granted preferential duty treatment. Free trade agreements exist with Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, the EFTA, the EU, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Israel, Uruguay, and Venezuela. Trade with Canada and the United States takes place under the NAFTA. Mexico has applied antidumping duties to the following products: electrical transformers and steel products from Brazil; textiles and articles of apparel, electronic products, toys, pencils, padlocks, bicycles and bicycle tires, iron and steel valves, and chemical products from China; beef, rice, sodium hydroxide, polyvinyl chloride, fructose, and polystyrene from the United States; seamless steel tubes from Japan; polyester from Korea; steel products from Canada, Russia, Ukraine, and Venezuela; chemical products from Denmark; and frozen beef and polystyrene from EU countries. Tariffs apply to imports destined for reexportation, except those under a free trade agreement. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of a few specified items related to drugs, narcotic substances, endangered species, and archaeological pieces are prohibited. Export taxes apply to endangered species' skins, turtle oil, and electricity, among others. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 614 MEXICO Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Other payments Under the insurance law, it is prohibited for foreign insurance companies to enter into the following types of contracts: (1) insurance of persons when the person is located in Mexico at the time the contract is executed; (2) insurance of hu l ls of ships or aircraft and of any class of vehicle against risks applicable to the maritime and transport class of insurance when the ships, aircraft, or vehicles are registered in Mexico or are the property of residents of Mexico; (3) credit insurance when the insured is subject to Mexican laws; (4) insurance against civil liability arising from an event that may occur in Mexico; and (5) other classes of insurance against risks that may occur on Mexican territory. Reinsurance may be contracted with foreign reinsurance companies. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature may be affected by the laws on inward direct investment and establishment. Such laws specify activities for which investment is reserved to the government or Mexican investors. Thus, with the authorization of the MOE, investment trusts may be established by Mexican banks acting as trustees. These trusts issue ordinary participation certificates that may be acquired by foreign investors; the certificates grant only economic rights to their holders and do not confer voting rights in the companies whose stock is held by the trusts (such voting rights being exercisable only by the trustee). Foreign commercial entities must be authorized by the MOE before engaging in habitual commercial activities in Mexican territory. Foreign securities publicly offered in the do- mestic market must be approved by the National Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV). Purchase abroad by residents MOF authorization is required for banks and securities firms to purchase shares of foreign financial intermediaries. Sale or issue abroad by residents Domestic securities offered in foreign markets must be registered with the National Registry of Securities (NRS). Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 615 On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Irrespective of the holder's nationality, the board of directors of each mutual fund must establish a maximum limit on individual holdings of its shares. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreigners are restricted to investing in publicly traded options when investments in the underlying shares or other securities of a participating nature of such options are reserved exclusively for Mexican residents. Foreign commercial entities must be authorized by the MOE before engaging in habitual commercial activities on Mexican territory. The underlying assets of publicly traded equity options must be registered with the NRS and the Mexican Stock Exchange (MSE) where the option is traded. Options on foreign stock exchange indexes need the approval on the respective index by the MSE on which the option is traded. Furthermore, foreign deriva- tives publicly offered in the domestic market must be approved by the CNBV. Purchase abroad by residents Controls apply to Mexican financial institutions with respect to the types of transactions they can enter into and amounts related thereto. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same controls apply as for purchases abroad by residents. Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents There are limits on the amounts that banks are allowed to lend to individual borrowers and on the open foreign exchange position of banks. To residents from nonresidents There are limits on credits denominated in foreign currency granted to Mexican banks and on open foreign exchange positions. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Contracting with foreign bonding companies to insure actions of persons who must fu l f i ll obligations on Mexican territory, except for reguarantee operations, is prohibited. If certain conditions are satisfied, the ownership by foreign investors of 100% of the capital stock of a Mexican company is permitted. The law sets forth which activities of the econ- omy are reserved to the government or to Mexican investors and lists the different activities in which foreign investment may not exceed 10%, 25%, and 49% of the total investment. Effective January 23, 2004, financial institutions and commercial entities that provide in- formation to credit information companies may acquire up to 18% ownership interest in such companies. Foreign governments or state enterprises are prohibited from investing directly or indirectly in insurance and bonding companies. Entities that exercise governmental authority are pro- hibited from investing directly or indirectly in commercial banks, limited-scope financial institutions, financial holding companies, securities specialists, securities firms, general deposit warehouses, financial leasing companies, savings and loan companies, factoring companies, foreign exchange firms, mutual funds, companies managing mutual or pension funds, companies distributing shares of mutual funds, companies appraising shares of mu- tual pension funds, central counterparties, stock exchanges, or (effective January 23, 2004) credit information bureaus. Investments in the following sectors are reserved for the government: petroleum and other hydrocarbons; basic petrochemicals; electricity; nuclear energy generation; radioactive minerals; telegraph service; radiotelegraphy; postal service; issuance of paper money; minting of coins; and the control and supervision of ports, airports, and heliports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 616 MEXICO Investments in the following sectors are reserved exclusively for Mexican individuals or Mexican corporations with a foreign exclusion clause: retail trade of gasoline and liquefied petroleum gas; radio and television broadcasting services other than cable television; ground transport of passengers, tourism, and loading (excluding courier and packaged goods transport services); credit unions; development banks; and certain professional and technical services. Notwithstanding these restrictions, foreign investors may invest in these activities through the acquisition of ordinary participation certificates issued by investment trusts established by Mexican banks acting as trustee, which grant only economic rights to their holders. Investments exceeding 49% in the following sectors and companies require prior authoriza- tion from the National Foreign Investment Commission: acquisition in a Mexican corpora- tion if the total value of assets exceeds the equivalent of approximately US$75 m i l l ion; port services for interior navigation; shipping companies dedicated only to the export of high- speed ships; administration of air terminals; cellular telephone service; construction of pipelines for oil and other derivatives; oil and gas drilling; legal services; private education; securities rating institutions; insurance agencies; and building, operation, and development of railway lines, if they are for general lines of communication, and the public service of railway transportation. Limits on maximum foreign investments are applied to the follow- ing sectors: cooperative production entities (10%); air transportation (25%); certain finan- cial institutions (49%); manufacturing of explosives and firearms (49%); newspapers for national distribution (49%); acquisition of T shares that represent the value of land used for agriculture, livestock, and forestry purposes (49%); fishing, other than aquaculture, in coastal and fresh waters or in the Exclusive Economic Zone (49%); interior navigation and coastal sailing, except tourist cruises and the development of dredges and other marine devices for ports (49%); integral harbor administration (49%); port pilot services for inte- rior navigation (49%); supply of fue ls and lubricants for ships, aircraft, and railroad equip- ment (49%); using, utilizing, or developing a frequency band in national territory, except for the free-use spectrum and the official-use spectrum (49%); installing, operating, or de- veloping public telecommunications networks (49%); occupying geostationary orbital posi- tions and satellite orbits assigned to Mexico or developing the corresponding frequency bands (49%); and developing signal transmission and reception rights of frequency bands associated with foreign satellite systems that may cover or render services in the national territory (49%). Any shareholder, regardless of nationality, may acquire the control of series O shares of a commercial bank, securities firm, or financial holding company. Prior approval from the respective f inanc ial authority is required for a shareholder to own more than 5% of the shares representing the capital stock of a banking institution, securities firm, or financial ho ld ing company. Shareholders may acquire control of the shares of an insurance company or bond ing com- pany, with prior approval of the MOF, regardless of their nationality. When such acquisi- tion exceeds 5% of the shares representing the capital stock of such insurance company or bond ing company, MOF approval is issued only with prior authorization of the National Insurance and Bonding Commission. Shareholders may acquire assets representing the capital stock of a credit bureau, regardless of their nationality. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents These controls apply to the direct acquisition by foreign nonresidents of real estate inside a 100-kilometer strip alongside the Mexican land border and a 50-kilometer strip inland from the Mexican coast. In addition, foreign nonresident investors may acquire real estate through Mexican companies, according to whose by-laws these nonresidents are considered Mexican, and refrain from invoking the protection of their government regarding the prop- erty acquired and the ir rights to the real estate within the zone defined above. Such acquisi- tions may take place (1) through the acquisition of shares of Mexican companies dedicated to nonresidential activities, with no t if ica t ion to the Ministry of Foreign A f fa i rs (MFA) or (2) through a real estate trust for residential activities, with the approval of the MFA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 617 Controls on personal capital transactions Gifts, endowments, inher i tances, and legacies from These transactions are subject to local civil provisions. In some states, foreign inheritances a Mexican resident are subject to international reciprocity. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Banks that obtain an unconditional warranty from foreign national entities may be exempt from the limits on foreign currency l iab i l i t ies and investments for foreign exchange transac- tions, provided that the long-term debt of the warrantor is rated at least A A- by Standard and Poor's or Aa3 by Moody's Investor Service. BOM approval is required for debt rated by other agencies. Borrowing abroad is permitted, subject to the limits on the liabilities of commercial banks denominated in foreign currency and on open foreign exchange positions. Maintenance of accounts abroad Foreign exchange risk positions, both total and for each foreign currency, must not exceed the daily limit of 15% of the bank's base capital. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange There are limits on the amount that banks may lend to nonresidents, There are l im i ts on the amount that banks may lend to ind iv idual borrowers, regardless of their nationality, and on the net open foreign exchange position of banks. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Irrespective of the currency denomination, banks may only enter into transactions on the ir own account with respect to securities registered with the NRS through securities firms, except for securities issued by banks. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities Banks must invest in liquid assets—as determined by the BOM and denominated in foreign currency —an amount calculated through the maturity structure of their liabilities payable in foreign currency. Controls apply on the types of transactions that banks may enter into and amounts related thereto. Any shareholder, regardless of na t iona l i ty, may acquire the control of O shares, with prior MOF approval. If the acquisition exceeds 5% of the shares representing the capital stock of a banking institution, CNBV opinion is required prior to MOF approval. The limits on shareholders do not apply to foreign offshore bank ing institutions that were set up in accordance with an international trade treaty. Irrespective of the counterparty's residence, total l iab i l i t ies of commercial banks denominated in or referred to foreign currency (excluding cash and h igh ly liquid assets, as determined by the BOM) must not exceed an amount equal to 183% of the capital stock of the respective bank. (Calculation of the base capital stock reflects the capitalization procedure set under the Basel Accord. The conversion of the base capital into national currency takes into account the exchange rate published by the BOM in the Off ic ial Gazette of the business day fo l low ing the date of the calculation of the base capital.) Notwithstanding th is requirement, the BOM allows short or long foreign exchange risk positions, which, both jo in t ly and for each foreign currency at the end of each day, do not exceed 15% of the bank's base capital (base capital being calculated pursuant to rules issued by the MOF). For the calculation of the foreign exchange position, commercial banks must include the foreign currency operations of their agencies and affiliates —in Mexico and abroad —except for securities firms, foreign exchange firms, bonding companies, insurance companies, managing companies of mutual funds, mutual funds, and pension fund management companies. Commercial banks may be authorized by the BOM to determine the positions referred to above from a long position in dollars. On nonresident assets and liabilities The regulations governing resident assets and liabilities apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 618 MEXICO Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Insurance companies may invest in equity of other insurance, reinsurance, or bonding com- panies. However, they may invest their reserve only pursuant to rules issued by the MOF. These rules specify the types of instruments and amounts in which insurance companies may invest. Mutual funds must invest at least 96% of their total assets in specially designated "assets for investment"—which include securities registered with the NRS and others established by law, depending on the types of funds —and those authorized by the CNBV. Pension fund management companies may invest in government-issued instruments and in instruments rated by international rating agencies. In addition, pension fund management companies may invest up to 20% of their assets in securities issued by nonresidents as authorized by the National Commission for Retirement Savings. The regulations governing limits on securities issued by nonresidents apply. Variable-income mutual funds and debt instrument mutual funds must invest their portfolios in accordance with the provisions set forth by the CNBV. The investment guidelines determined by such authority establish the types of instruments and the minimum percentage of total assets in which such mutual funds may invest. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exchange arrangement Exchange arrangement Changes During 2003 March 20. The Exchange Commission announced a rules-based mechanism to reduce the rate of international reserves accumulation. May 2. Daily auctions of dollars —part of the mechanism to reduce the rate of international reserves accumulation —were initiated. Changes During 2004 March 12. The BOM modified the daily auction mechanism for sales of dollars, distribut- ing in equal parts the amount of dollars to be sold during the following four quarters (pre- viously, one). In addition, if the amount to be sold on one day falls to less than US$2 mil- lion, the daily sales will be US$2 million until the total amount of reserves to be auctioned during that quarter is depleted. Imports and import payments January 1. Import license requirements for new vehicles were eliminated. January 1. A 50% tariff was introduced on imports of new vehicles from all countries, excluding NAFTA and EU countries. Capital transactions Controls on direct investment January 23. Entities exercising government authority were prohibited from acquiring own- ership interests in credit information companies. Financial and commercial entities that provide information to such companies are allowed to acquire up to 18% ownership interest in such companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 24, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Federated States of Micronesia is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by the two commercial banks that are authorized foreign exchange dealers and are regulated by a statutory banking board. The banks buy and sell foreign exchange at the rates quoted in international markets. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restriction. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Micronesia participates in PACER and PICTA. No. No. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Accounts in domestic currency held abroad The U.S. dollar is used as domestic currency, and no distinction is made between accounts in U.S. dollars held domestically and those held abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency The U.S. dollar is used as domestic currency and balances may be converted into foreign currency without restriction. 619 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 620 FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Importers must obtain a business license. Imports of certain products are prohibited for env ironmen ta l, health, safety, or social reasons. Import duties are levied on an ad valorem or specific basis as follows: (1) 25% on ciga- rettes (50% on other tobacco products), carbonated nonalcoholic beverages, dr ink mixes and preparations, coffee, tea, beer, malt beverages, wines, perfumes and articles containing perfumes (such as sachets), cosmetics, toiletries (including cologne and other toilet waters), all skin and hair applications (such as lipstick, pomades, and powders), and any other preparations not having medicinal properties; (2) $10 per U.S. gallon on spirits and distilled alcoholic beverages; (3) $0.05 per U.S. gallon on gasoline and diesel fue l; (4) 3% on food- stuffs (except for fresh citrus fru i t, for which the duty is 25%); (5) 100% on laundry bar soap; and (6) 4% on all other products. The ad valorem duties are based on the c.i.f. value of the goods. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. The Department of Health, Education, and Social A f fa i rs conducts preshipment inspections of foodstuffs. Exports are not subject to licensing requirements, taxes, or quantitative restrictions. The purchase and export of copra and dried coconut meat yielding coconut oil are conducted solely by the Coconut Development Authority. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA 621 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment All of these transactions are regulated. Yes. No. n.r. Foreign investors must obtain an application from the federal government and submit it for review and action to the Foreign Investment Board of the state in which the business will be located. They must also obtain a license from the federal government to engage in busi- ness or to acquire an interest in a business in the Federated States of Micronesia. If a for- eign investor wishes to conduct business in more than one state, an application for each state must be obtained from the federal government and submitted to the Foreign Invest- ment Board of each of the states in which the business will be located and operated. Priori- ties for foreign investment are reviewed by the federal and state authorities from time to time. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Investment regulations Abroad by banks Foreign investment in the real estate and construction sectors is prohibited in accordance with the laws proh ib i t ing land ownership by foreigners. Foreign investors normally obtain long-term leases (usually up to 55 years with an option to renew for another 44 years) for land needed for their business. Yes. n.r. The statutory lending l im it to any person is set at 20% of capital. Domestic banks are prohibited from investing in the stocks of any corporation, domestic or foreign. In banks by nonresidents Foreign investment in domestic banks may not exceed one-third of available shares, Provisions specific to institutional investors n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 622 FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA (Position as of February 29, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 30, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Moldova is the Moldovan leu. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed f loa t ing with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax The o f f ic ial exchange rate of the leu against the dollar is determined daily as the weighted average of the exchange rates used in all market transactions. The National Bank of Moldova (NBM) quotes exchange rates of the leu for other currencies on the basis of the leu-dollar rate and the cross-rate relationships between the dollar and the currencies con- cerned in the international market. The off ic ial exchange rate is used in accounting and statistical calculations. Institutions eligible to deal in foreign exchange are authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus. The latter and foreign exchange offices of authorized banks are authorized to purchase from and sell to resident and nonresident individuals foreign banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks in any currency. These transactions may also be effected through credit cards. Au- thorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus may set their own buying and selling rates in their foreign exchange transactions. Foreign exchange purchased by ind iv idua ls against cash at foreign exchange offices of authorized banks or at foreign exchange bureaus is subject to a tax of 0.1%. Receipts from th is tax are used for domestic social services. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market While this market does exist, it is small and operations are insignificant. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency The leu is the only legal tender within the territory of Moldova. The use of foreign currency among residents is allowed only in cases stipulated by legislation. For current transactions and payments For capital transactions The regulations governing international current transactions in foreign currencies also ap- ply to those effected with domestic currency. According to the Law on Foreign Investment, foreign investments must be undertaken in convertible currencies or in other foreign currencies that are purchased by authorized banks. A f ter the payment of taxes, duties, and dues, foreign investors and foreign invest- ment companies may use any domestic currency receipts for the following: (1) current ac- tivities; (2) reinvestment, including acquisition of companies, their shares, and other securi- ties; and (3) purchases of foreign exchange in the local foreign exchange market. NBM regulations on capital transactions apply to capital transactions in foreign currency and in domestic currency. Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other ins trumen ts Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. 623 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 624 MOLDOVA Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Except for authorized banks, transfers are not allowed between foreign currency accounts of d i f fe rent residents. The use of foreign currency among residents is allowed only in cases stipulated by legislation. Moldova has concluded agreements on settlements with some CIS countries, providing for settlements and payments in accordance with international bank ing practices. Several bilat- eral agreements exist for the promotion of investments and trade development that include provisions on payments between the signatories. Moldova is a member of the Payments Union w i th in the CIS; however, the arrangement is inoperative. The NBM has u l t ima te authority in the area of foreign exchange arrangements and is re- sponsible for managing the country's foreign exchange reserves, regu la t ing the currency market, and granting licenses to engage in foreign currency transactions. In accordance with the Law on Controls on the Repatriation of Funds, Goods, and Services, the NBM monitors export receipts and import payments based on customs and bank ing data. The Center for Combating Economic Crime and Corruption is responsible for controls on repa- triation. Customs authorities supervise imports and exports of currency. International security restrictions The Law on Fighting Against Terrorism stipulates that the funds and other f inanc ial assets of persons associated with terrorism are to be blocked. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Banks and other financial institutions have been instructed to freeze all funds, financial assets, and other economic sources of ind iv idua ls, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism, pursuant to the relevant UN Security Counc il resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade A license from the Chamber of Licensing is required to conduct international trade in gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign currency may be imported and exported by resident banks with a B or C type li- cense and, with NBM approval, by nonresident banks that have loro correspondent ac- counts with resident banks. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Domestic currency may be imported and exported only by nonresident banks that have loro corresponding accounts with resident banks, and then oruy with NBM approval. Imports and exports of banknotes by resident and nonres ident banks must be declared to customs. Effective February 7, 2003, resident and nonres ident ind iv idua ls are not allowed to export or import either domestic or foreign currency banknotes, coins; checks, traveler's checks through the mail or unaccompanied luggage. Effective August 15, 2003, the l im it for exports of banknotes, coins, and leu-denominated checks is MDL 7,000 (previously, MDL 2,500) for both res ident and nonresident individu- als; exports of domestic currency must be declared to customs. The limit on exports of foreign currency (banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks) for both resident and nonresident ind iv idua ls is the equivalent of $50,000 upon presentation of a customs declaration conf irm ing previous import of foreign currency or with the approval of an authorized bank or the NBM. Without these documents, the l im it for resident individuals is $5,000, while the l im it for nonresident ind iv idua ls is $1,000 (effec t ive August 15, 2003). Exports of foreign currency must be declared to customs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 625 On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Effec t ive August 15, 2003, the l im it for imports of banknotes, coins, and leu-denominated checks is MDL 7,000 (previously, MDL 2,500) for both residents and nonresidents; imports of domestic currency must be declared to customs. Imports of foreign currency (banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks) must be declared to customs, but there are no quantitative limits. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Resident legal entities and ind iv idua ls may open an unlimited number of accounts in any foreign currency. All foreign currency earnings of resident legal entities must be deposited in their accounts at authorized banks, and account holders may use foreign exchange bal- ances in their accounts to settle their transactions according to legislation. Domestic trans- actions may be settled only after the foreign currency has been converted into lei. All pay- ments by legal entities must be effected through transfers. Foreign currency may be withdrawn from accounts of resident juridical persons only for business trips. Resident individuals may open type A and B accounts in any foreign currency. Type A accounts may be credited with foreign currency that was received from abroad (documen- tary proof is required). Type B accounts may be credited with foreign currency purchased locally; no documentary proof of origin is required. There are no restrictions on the use of funds from both type A and type B accounts for current international transactions. MOF approval is required for the opening of bank accounts for public institutions. Finan- cial services to these public institutions are provided through treasury accounts. NBM approval is required for all residents to hold these accounts abroad, with the following exceptions: (1) banks holding a B or C license; (2) resident individuals during a temporary stay abroad; and (3) effective November 26, 2003, consular offices, diplomatic missions, and other representative offices located abroad. Effective November 26, 2003, authorized banks are not allowed to open accounts in shell banks. Resident legal entities, including authorized banks, may open accounts in domestic currency only af ter obtaining written NBM approval. Resident individuals are permitted to open accounts abroad for the duration of their temporary stay abroad without NBM approval. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Funds from leu-denominated accounts may be converted into foreign exchange in accor- dance with regulations. Foreign currency purchased by a resident jur id ical person must be used for making pay- ment transfers according to existing regulations. This does not apply to foreign currency purchased by authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus. Effective April 11, 2003, foreign currency purchased by a resident ju r id ical person (excluding authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus) must be used within seven business days; otherwise, it must be sold in the domestic market. However, effective August 1, 2003, a term exceeding seven business days is allowed for purchases made through credit cards. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident natural and juridical persons may open accounts in any foreign currency. These accounts may be credited with funds legally acquired, inc lud ing through purchases in the domestic foreign exchange market. Nonresidents with foreign currency accounts at authorized banks in Moldova are permitted to transfer the balances from these accounts abroad or sell them on the foreign exchange market through authorized banks without re- striction. Foreign currency deposited into foreign currency accounts of nonresident indi- v idua ls may be withdrawn in cash or traveler's checks up to the balances of their accounts. Foreign exchange accounts permitted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 626 MOLDOVA Domestic currency accounts Nonresident juridical person may withdraw foreign currency from their accounts for (1) permitted exports of foreign currency; (2) current expenses of diplomatic missions, representative offices of foreign states, and international organizations; and (3) remunerating business expenses of nonresidents. Accounts in lei may be opened freely by nonresidents, except for those from countries with which the NBM has signed a bilateral agreement that requires permission by the relevant central bank to open such accounts. All payments by nonresident juridical persons must be effected through bank transfers. Domestic currency (cash) may be withdrawn from the accounts of nonresidents only for (1) permitted exports of domestic currency; (2) remuneration of business expenses, and other current expenses of diplomatic missions and representative offices of foreign states, international organizations, and other nonresi- dent juridical persons; and (3) payments for goods and services and other legal payments and transfers. Convertible into foreign currency Balances on leu accounts of nonresidents may be converted into foreign currency freely. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Goods must be imported and services rendered no later than 90 days from the date of the advance payment. The value of all imported goods and rendered services must equal the amount paid. If a contract is not executed, the amount of the advance payment must be repatriated to Moldova no later than 90 days after such advance payment was effected. However, the length of this period may vary, depending on the type of contract. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports To effect payments for imports, the following documents must be presented to an author- ized bank: the contract executed with the nonresidents, the transaction passport, and other documents in accordance with the NBM regulations, as applicable. Import licenses and other nontariff measures The following imports are subject to licensing for the purpose of consumer protection and to ensure compliance with domestic standards: dual purpose goods and technologies, am- munition, military equipment, and special compounds for the manufacture thereof; explo- sive substances; nuclear products and technology; medicine, equipment for the manufacture of medicine, and medical equipment; chemicals; cultures for developing microorganisms; and stupefying or psychotropic materials and compounds for their derivation or production. Negative list Imports of unprocessed ivory are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs There are several tariff bands for imports. A zero customs tariff is applied to cotton, fertil- izers, pharmaceutical products, textbooks, and base metals and products thereof, as well as to other goods. Customs duties are not imposed on goods and objects produced in and im- ported from Romania and CIS countries that have ratified the Agreement on the Creation of a Free Trade Zone or with which Moldova has bilateral interstate agreements on free trade. Imported goods and services are subject to a standard VAT of 20%; imports of gas and liquid gases are subject to a reduced VAT of 5%. Effective February 16, 2004, a temporary four-year exceptional tax was imposed as a safeguard measure on imports of sugar (whether made from cane or beets) at the rate of 55% of customs value but not less than €115 per ton. The tax is to be reduced annually by 5% (with a minimum decrease of €5 per ton) until its elimination at the end of 2007. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 627 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports of goods must be repatriated no later than 180 days from the issuance of the export customs declaration. However, the length of this period may vary, depending on the type of contract. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements An export contract and a declaration on the repatriation of foreign exchange proceeds are required for exports of goods against payments in domestic and foreign currencies. Export licenses Export taxes Export licenses apply to a limited list of goods considered important for health and security reasons. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments and transfers by resident ind iv idua ls from type B accounts, leu accounts, and foreign currency balances purchased in the domestic foreign exchange market are subject to the fo l low ing regulations: (1) resident individuals are free to transfer abroad any foreign currency up to the equivalent of $200 to effect a single payment without presentation of documen ta t ion; (2) resident ind iv idua ls may, with written NBM approval, make transfers to pay for fam i ly maintenance expenses in the amount of up to $1,000 a quarter; and (3) effec- tive February 7, 2003, other payments and transfers from type B accounts in excess of $200 may be made up to the amount set forth in supporting documents (previously, NBM ap- proval was required for amounts in excess of $1,000). Effective February 7, 2003, transfers by resident ind iv idua ls using foreign currency in A accounts, foreign currency imported with a customs declaration, or foreign currency ac- quired from an authorized bank are subject to the following regulations: (1) a resident indi- vidual may freely transfer to a nonresident jur id ical person any foreign currency up to the equivalent of $200; (2) for transfers to a nonresident individual, the limit is $1,000. Trans- fers exceeding these amounts require presentation of documentation (such as an invoice or proof of fam i ly relationship). Resident juridical persons may effect payments or transfers for current international transactions only on the basis of supporting documents. Services must be rendered by nonresidents to resident legal entities no later than 90 days from the date of the advance payment for the services. All rendered services must be equal in value to the amount paid for them. To effect payment for services, the following documents must be presented to the author- ized bank: the contract executed with nonresidents, the transaction passport, and any other documents required by NBM regulations. Nonresidents may transfer abroad from their accounts or to residents' and nonresidents' accounts in Moldova any amount in foreign or domestic currency, provided that the transfers or payments comply with the law. Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments are permitted up to the amount set forth in supporting documents. Investment-related payments Af ter payment of all taxes, duties, and dues, foreign investors may transfer abroad any funds in foreign currency obtained domestically as a result of their investment activities. Private loans from nonresidents must be registered with the NBM. Current payments re- lated to these loans may be effected upon presentation of the certificates of registration issued by the NBM. Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments are permitted up to the amount set forth in supporting documents. Payments for travel W i thout supporting documents, nonresident ind iv idua ls may export the equivalent of $1,000 in foreign currency, while resident ind iv idua ls may export up to $5,000. The export of amounts in excess of these l im i ts requires a customs declaration with respect to prior importation or the approval of an authorized bank. Resident ind iv idual holders of type A ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 628 MOLDOVA accounts and nonresident individual account holders may withdraw foreign currency (cash or traveler's checks) for travel purposes up to their account balances and, with a bank's permission, export the currency. Resident individual holders of type B accounts may withdraw foreign currency (cash or traveler's checks) for travel purposes up to their account balance, but may export only up to the equivalent of $5,000. Exports of amounts exceeding this l im it require NBM approval. Authorized banks may provide resident legal entities and representative offices of nonresi- dents with foreign currency (cash, and/or traveler's checks) for business travel expenses abroad up to the equivalent of $5,000 a person a month, along with the corresponding per- mission to export foreign currency. Amounts exceeding th is l im it require NBM authoriza- tion. Exports of currency exceeding $50,000 must be effected through banks. Quantitative limits Residents may export up to the equivalent of $5,000 in foreign currency. Amounts in excess of this require NBM approval. Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Yes. Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test A labor contract is required, together with documents specifying the amount to be paid. Credit card use abroad International credit cards may be issued to ind iv idua ls and legal entities against all types of resident and nonresident accounts. International credit cards issued against leu or type B foreign exchange accounts of resident individuals may be used abroad up to certain l im i ts for cash withdrawal and payment at hotels, gas stations, and shopping centers, as allowed under NBM regulations. Resident jur id ical persons may make payments through international cards issued against their accounts only for business travel expenditures. Cash w i thdrawa ls are subject to limits. International cards issued in conjunction with type A foreign exchange accounts of resident individuals may be used abroad without quantitative l im i ts. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds received by residents from invisible transactions must be repatriated to Moldova unless a specific exemption has been granted by the law. In the case of advance payments, if services were not rendered by nonresidents to resident ju r id ical persons, the amount must be repatriated no later than 90 days af ter the advance payment was effected. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature MOLDOVA 629 Capital Transactions Approval from the NBM is required for the transfer of capital in monetary form to nonresi- dents. Loans and other monetary capital flows from nonresidents must be registered with the NBM. However, NBM regulations exempt certain monetary capital inflows from ap- proval and registration requirements. Commercial banks may purchase (in their portfolios) securities issued by the governments of Group of Seven countries without NBM approval. Issuance in Moldova of securities in foreign currency is not permitted. Purchase of state securities by foreign investors requires the permission of the finance min- istry, mainly for statistical purposes. A foreign investor may not possess more than 50% of state securities within a certain ISIN market, whether obtained on the primary or secondary market. Purchases or acquisition of more than 5% of the total value of the securities of an issuer— and each subsequent purchase/acquisition of 5%—must be reported to both the issuer and the National Securities Commission (NSC). An offer to acquire at least 25% of the total number of shares of a company, or such quantity that would allow control over the com- pany, must be registered with the State Institution for Antimonopoly Regulations and the NSC at least one month prior to the acquisition, and the value of the stock must be pub- lished within 10 days after the acquisition. Any acquisition of more than 25% of the ordinary shares of a company must be effected through tenders, which must be registered with the NSC. Purchase locally by nonresidents Registration is not required for these transactions. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign securities may be sold in Moldova only as Moldovan Depository Receipts (MDRs) issued by residents who are professional participants in the securities market, with regis- tered capital of at least MDL 500,000. Issuance of MDRs requires registration with the NSC subsequent to NBM approval for the exportation of capital from Moldova. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Registration is not required for these transactions. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents MOF approval (mainly for statistical purposes) is required for foreign investors to purchase state securities. A single investor's share (resident or nonresident) may not account for more than 50% of the issuance of a given government security purchased in an auction or on the secondary market. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Registration is not required for these transactions. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 630 MOLDOVA Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The following do not require NBM approval when interest does not accrue: (1) commercial lending and credits in the form of delivery of goods or services for up to 180 days (90 days in the case of exports of strategic goods); and (2) commercial lending and credits in the form of advance money transfers for up to 90 days. Commercial lending and credits exceeding these limits are not permitted. NBM registration is not required for these transactions. Commercial borrowing or credits in the form of delivery of goods or rendering of services or in the form of advance money transfers is permitted for a period not exceeding 180 days when interest does not accrue. NBM approval is required, except for government and overnight credits. Credits involving resident or nonresident nonentrepreneurial individuals are not allowed. To residents from nonresidents NBM registration is required, except for financial credits received by the government or under government guarantees and overnight financial credits received by residents. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment NBM approval is required for these transactions, except for (1) guarantees issued or re- ceived by the government; and, (2) effective, June 6, 2003, guarantees issued by resident banks to nonresident beneficiaries against resident current transactions. Residents may not issue guarantees against nonresidents without providing a security or placing a deposit with a bank in Moldova. Issues of guarantees to nonresident nonentrepreneurial individuals are not allowed. NBM registration is required, except for (1) guarantees received by the government; and (2) guarantees issued by nonresidents with respect to transactions with residents when the beneficiary of the guarantee is a nonresident. NBM authorization is required for investments intended to acquire a newly established enterprise or more than 10% of the shares of an entity or to set up branches or subsidiaries for the purpose of acquiring control of an enterprise. Inward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Proceeds from the liquidation of direct investments in Moldova must be transferred abroad within six months of receipt. After six months, special approval is required. Proceeds from the liquidation or sale of investments abroad must be repatriated to Moldova. Reinvestment of capital abroad by residents requires NBM authorization. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans NBM approval is required for the purchase of real estate abroad, including rights to land or subsoil. By residents to nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. To residents from nonresidents Registration with the NBM is required. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Effective February 7, 2003, resident individuals may transfer as gifts, donations, or gratuitous assistance up to (1) the equivalent of $1,000 from type A accounts, or upon ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 631 presentation of a customs declaration attesting to the previous import of the funds or with permission from an authorized bank to export foreign currency; and (2) up to $200 from type B accounts, MDL accounts, or foreign currency purchased in the local foreign exchange market. Effective February 7, 2003, legacies from residents to nonresidents may be transferred without NBM approval if the transfers are registered in the nonresident individuals' account in an authorized bank. To residents from nonresidents These transactions may be conducted freely. Effective February 7, 2003, the registration requirement no longer applies. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets These transactions require NBM authorization. Emigrants may export the equivalent of $5,000 (in banknotes, coins, or travelers' checks) without supporting documents or the approval of an authorized bank or the NBM. Effective February 7, 2003, emigrants may transfer without NBM approval balances in type B ac- counts, prior imports of foreign currency declared to customs, and foreign currency ap- proved by an authorized bank for export. Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings NBM approval is required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Commercial banks are permitted to purchase (for their portfolios) securities issued by the governments of Group of Seven countries without NBM approval. Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad NBM registration is required, with the exception of loans guaranteed by the government and overnight credits. There are no controls on the opening and maintaining of foreign currency accounts abroad by banks holding type B and C banking licenses. Authorized banks may open accounts in lei with nonresident banks only with NBM approval. Effective November 26, 2003, authorized banks are prohibited from opening accounts in shell banks. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) NBM approval is required, except for overnight credits to nonresidents. Lending to non- resident nonentrepreneurial individuals is not allowed. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Banks holding type B or C licenses are allowed to extend foreign currency credits to: (1) other banks; (2) effective July 4, 2003, resident juridical persons and individuals en- gaged in entrepreneurial activities; (3) residents in accordance with agreements between the government and nonresidents or between resident banks and international financial institu- tions; and (4) effective October 10, 2003, resident individuals for settlements with nonresi- dents for personal expenses such as education, medical treatment, and items for personal use. Securities denominated in foreign exchange are not issued in the country. Banking regulations do not provide for separate accounts in foreign exchange; banks, how- ever, perform separate accounting for each currency. Banking regulations do not provide for separate accounts for nonresidents; banks, however, perform separate accounting for nonresidents. NBM approval is required. Written NBM approval is required in order to transfer any equity interest in a bank that represents in a 10%, 25%, 33%, or 50% share of the aggregate capital of the bank. From April 16, 2003, to September 12, 2003, the limit for both long and short exchange positions was 5% (previously, 10%) of the aggregate normative capital for each foreign currency and 10% (previously, 20%) for long and short positions for all foreign currencies combined. Effective February 27, 2004, the ratio of foreign currency assets to foreign currency liabili- ties in balance sheets is not permitted to exceed ±25%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 632 MOLDOVA Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Changes During 2003 February 7. Resident and nonresident individuals were not allowed to export or import either domestic or foreign currency banknotes, coins, checks, or traveler's checks through the mail or unaccompanied luggage. August 15. The limit on exports and imports of domestic currency and leu-denominated checks was raised to MDL 7,000 from MDL 2,500 for both residents and nonresidents. August 15. Residents and nonresidents were allowed to export foreign currency (banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks) up to the equivalent of $5,000 and $1,000, respectively, with- out permission from the NBM or an authorized bank and without a customs declaration confirming a previous import of foreign currency. April 11. Foreign exchange purchased by a resident juridical person (other than authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus) was required to be used within seven days of pur- chase, or sold in the domestic market. August L The time l im it for using foreign exchange purchased with a credit card was ex- tended to more than seven business days. November 26. Consular offices, diplomatic missions, and other representative offices of the Republic of Moldova were allowed to open foreign currency accounts abroad without prior NBM approval. November 26. Authorized banks were prohibited from opening accounts in shell banks. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers February 7. Transfers of foreign currency in excess of $200 by a resident individual from type B accounts were allowed up to the amount set forth in the supporting documents (pre- viously, transfers in excess of $1,000 required NBM approval). Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Controls on personal capital transactions February 7. Transfers of foreign currency by a resident individual from type A accounts to a nonresident legal entity and to a nonresident individual were allowed up to the equivalent of $200 and $1,000, respectively. Transfer of amounts exceeding these limits requires documentation. June 6. Issues of guarantees by resident banks to nonresident beneficiaries against resident current transactions were allowed without NBM approval. February 7. Resident individuals were allowed to transfer up to the equivalent of (1) $1,000 from type A accounts (or upon presentation of documentary evidence of the previous import of funds or permission from an authorized bank to export foreign currency) or (2) up to $200 from type B accounts, MDL accounts, or funds purchased in the local foreign exchange market. February 7. Legacies from residents to nonresidents may be transferred without NBM ap- proval if the transfers are registered in the nonresident individual's account in an authorized bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOLDOVA 633 February 7. The registration requirement for transfer of gifts, endowments, inheritances and legacies from nonresidents to residents was lifted. February 7. Emigrants were allowed to transfer balances in type B accounts, prior imports of foreign currency declared to customs, and foreign currency approved by an authorized bank for export without NBM approval. April 16. Until September 12, 2003, the limit for both long and short exchange positions was reduced to 5% (previously, 10%) of the aggregate normative capital for each foreign currency and 10% (previously, 20%) for all foreign currencies combined. July 4. Banks with type B or C licenses were allowed to extend credit in foreign currency to resident juridical persons and individuals engaged in entrepreneurial activities. October 10. Banks with type B or C licenses were permitted to extend credit in foreign exchange to residents for settlements with nonresidents for expenses such as education, medical treatment, and items for personal use. November 26. Banks in Moldova were prohibited from opening accounts in shell banks. Changes During 2004 February 16. A temporary exceptional tax was imposed as a safeguard measure on imports of sugar (whether made from cane or beets), which is to be reduced gradually and eliminated by the end of 2007. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Imports and import payments Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions February 27. The ratio of foreign currency assets to foreign currency liabilities in balance sheets was not permitted to exceed ±25%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 1, 1996. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Mongolia is the Mongolian togrog. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Effective January 6, 2003, the official (reference) exchange rate of the togrog against the dollar is set daily by the Bank of Mongolia (BOM) as the daily average buying and selling rates established by transactions among participants in the interbank foreign exchange mar- ket. The BOM reserves the right to intervene in the foreign exchange market using the dol- lar as the principal intervention currency. The official exchange rate is applied to public sector imports and service payments, including debt service, and to trade and service trans- actions conducted under bilateral payments arrangements. All other transactions, including sales of retained foreign exchange by public sector enterprises, take place through the in- terbank market. Exchange rates for other convertible currencies are calculated on the basis of the cross rates against the dollar in international markets. No. No. Banks are granted a supplementary foreign exchange settlement license from the BOM for engaging in forward exchange transactions. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Within the territory of Mongolia, all settlements, advertisements, setting of prices, and tariffs must be made in togrogs. Yes. There are outstanding balances under the clearing arrangement with the Russian Federa- tion. Under inoperative bilateral trade arrangements, there are also outstanding balances with the Islamic State of Afghanistan, the People's Republic of China, and Serbia and Montenegro. Clearing agreements Mongolia maintains a bilateral clearing agreement with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Administration of control International transactions are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Restrictions are imposed on certain transactions with Serbia and Montenegro. In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. Payments arrears Off ic ial Although the pre-1991 convertible ruble arrears have been settled, some arrears are still owed to the Russian Federation. 634 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA 635 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Exporters of gold must register their exports with the BOM or a commercial bank. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Exportation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. The source of foreign currency must be documented. Importation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts may be held at authorized banks; they may be credited with retained export earn- ings and foreign exchange transferred from abroad, and the balances may be used for any purpose without restriction. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Registration with the State Registry is required. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Open general licenses Imports of drugs, alcohol, materials that encourage or depict violence or pornography, and items that could cause environmental damage are banned. A special permit is required for imports of historical artifacts, precious metals, weapons, radioactive materials, ferrous and nonferrous metals, and goods and services requiring licenses under international contracts and agreements. Other nontariff measures Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 636 MONGOLIA Import taxes and/or tariffs A uniform import duty of 5% applies. A uniform VAT of 15% is levied on imports of most goods. Specific excise taxes are levied on imports of alcohol, cigarettes, tobacco and tobacco products, passenger cars, and petroleum products. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes A special permit is required for exports of historical artifacts, precious metals, weapons, radioactive materials, ferrous and nonferrous metals, and goods and services requiring licenses under international contracts and agreements. Yes. Export taxes apply to the export of nonferrous and scrap metals, raw cashmere, raw camel wool, and lumber or other wood products. Other export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of capital market securities is prohibited. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Registration with the Mongolian Stock Exchange is required. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of money market instruments is prohibited. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of collective investment securities is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MONGOLIA 637 Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of derivatives and other instruments is prohibited. Controls on credit operations Registration with the MOF is required for both commercial and financial credits. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Investment by private corporations is encouraged, particularly in projects involving export promotion, the use of advanced technology, and the exploitation of natural resources. The Law on Foreign Investment guarantees that foreign firms will not be nationalized and that foreign investors will have the right to dispose of their assets. The maximum rate of the profit tax is 40%, and foreign investors are exempt from the tax for 3 to 10 years, depend- ing on the sector and export performance. In addition, the law stipulates that entities with foreign participation may export at world prices or other agreed prices, and may import or export directly or in cooperation with foreign trade enterprises. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Registration with the State Real Estate Registry is required except for sale locally by nonresidents. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Registration with the BOM and the MOF is required. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies involving antiques must be registered with the appropriate state administrative authority. By residents to nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Registration with the BOM is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad BOM permission is required. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks are required to obtain a supplementary foreign exchange settlement license to engage in these transactions. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks There is a 50% cap on the share of the reserve requirement that may be met by cash in vault, and on the symmetrical treatment of domestic and foreign currency deposits in meeting reserve requirements. Banks are required to obtain a supplementary foreign exchange settlement license to engage in these transactions. Open foreign exchange position limits The limits are 15% of capital base for the net position in a single currency and 40% of capital base for the total net position in all currencies. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws Securities may be issued only by government institutions upon the approval of the Great Rural or by companies registered in Mongolia. It is prohibited to lend securities. Any person owning 5% or more of the total shares of any company must report it to the Securities Committee of the Great Hural within five days after acquisition. Any person who intends to own, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of the total shares of any company must make a tender in accordance with the Securities Law of Mongolia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 638 MONGOLIA Exchange arrangement January 6. The official (reference) exchange rate of the togrog against the dollar began to be set daily by the BOM. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position as of February 29, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 21, 1993. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan dirham. Commemorative gold coins with a face value of DH 250 and DH 500, and commemorative silver coins with a face value of DH 50, DH 100, DH 150, and DH 200 are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) The exchange rate is determined freely in the interbank foreign exchange market. Bank Al-Maghrib (BAM) —the central bank —intervenes continuously in the market during the day by setting the buying and selling rates applicable to its operations with banks, based on a basket of currencies weighted in accordance with the geographic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade and the pattern of currencies of settlement. This quotation system is also based on the observance of the cross exchange rates in the international market. For exchange operations with customers, banks may not exceed the rate limits set by the BAM. Banks charge a commission of 0.2% on their foreign exchange transactions with customers. No. No. Banks may provide forward exchange contracts for commercial and financial operations for periods of up to 12 months. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All transactions between Morocco and foreign countries —regardless of the type of transac- tions—must be settled in foreign currencies that are quoted by the BAM or in convertible dirhams. Transactions among residents must be denominated and settled in domestic currency. There are regional payments arrangements between the BAM and the central banks of Algeria, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, and Tunisia. Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Office (FEO), an agency under the MOF. This office has delegated the execution of the main exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, which are required for some products, are issued by the Department of Foreign Trade (DFT). In accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, prior FEO authorization is required to conduct financial transactions with listed individuals or entities associated with terrorism. In accordance with UN sanctions Morocco maintains restrictions against certain countries pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions. Payments arrears No. 639 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 640 MOROCCO Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or invest- ment purposes. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization from the Customs and Indirect Taxes Admini- stration. The MOF fixes annually a quota for the importation of gold ingots. The quota is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. Exports of gold are also regulated. The exportation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Foreign nationals visiting Morocco are permitted to repurchase foreign exchange on pres- entation of receipts indicating the amount of the original conversion of foreign exchange into dirhams. Residents may also export foreign banknotes within the limits specified in foreign exchange regulations. The importation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely foreign banknotes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency. Resident travelers may also import freely foreign banknotes or any other means of payment denominated in foreign exchange, but must surrender them for dirhams within 30 days of their return to Morocco. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Two types of account may be opened. Resident Accounts (1) Natural and juridical persons may open foreign currency accounts in Moroccan banks without restriction. These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad, any foreign currency-denominated means of payment (e.g., banknotes or traveler's checks), or foreign currency that was withdrawn from a Moroccan bank in accordance with current foreign exchange regulations. They may be debited for transfers abroad or for purchases of dirhams for all domestic settlements. There are no restrictions on the rate of interest payable on these accounts or on transfers between foreign currency accounts or between these accounts and convertible dirham accounts. Authorized banks may issue international credit cards to holders of these accounts. Overdrafts on these accounts are not permitted. (2) Moroccan exporters of goods and services holding convertible export promotion ac- counts (CCPEX) are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts; those without a CCPEX must still obtain prior approval from the FEO. Up to 20% of foreign exchange receipts from exports may be credited to these accounts (fishing companies may credit up to 25%) and the remainder must be sold to Moroccan banks. Exporters' foreign exchange accounts may also be credited without restriction with proceeds (principal and interest) from finan- cial investments made from these accounts and with transfers from other foreign exchange accounts of the same account holder. These accounts may be debited for payment of busi- ness expenses, as provided for in the exchange regulations; for investments in authorized banks; for subscribing to bonds issued by the Moroccan Treasury; to credit another foreign exchange account or a CCPEX held in the name of the same account holder; and for the surrender of foreign currency to banks. Authorized banks may issue international credit cards to holders of these accounts. Overdrafts on these accounts are not permitted. Approval required Held abroad Approval is not required for foreign nationals. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 641 Approval required Approval is not required for foreign nationals. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Two types of accounts may be opened. (1) Foreign currency accounts in the names of foreign nationals may be maintained by non- resident natural or juridical persons of foreign nationality. These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad; with foreign banknotes, checks, and traveler's checks; with any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency; and with foreign currency with- drawn from domestic banks, in accordance with exchange regulations. They may be deb- ited for transfers abroad or for the surrender of foreign currency for dirhams for all domes- tic settlements. (2) Foreign currency accounts may be opened by Moroccan nationals residing abroad. These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad, with traveler's checks, banknotes, or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, and foreign currency withdrawn from domestic banks in accordance with exchange regulations. They may be debited for transfers abroad, and for the surrender of foreign currency for dirhams for all domestic settlements. There are no restrictions on the rate of interest payable on these two types of accounts or on transfers between foreign currency accounts, or between these accounts and convertible dirham accounts. Domestic currency accounts There are three types of accounts. (1) Convertible in foreign currency dirham accounts are restricted to resident and nonresi- dent natural and juridical persons of foreign nationality. (2) Convertible dirham accounts may be opened freely in the name of Moroccans residing abroad. Both types of accounts may be credited with proceeds from the surrender of foreign currency and transfers from Morocco in accordance with current exchange regulations. They may be debited for the purchase of foreign currency and all domestic settlements. There are no restrictions on transfers between foreign accounts in convertible dirhams, or between these accounts and foreign currency accounts. Holders of these accounts may ob- tain international credit cards from authorized banks. Overdrafts are not allowed, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. (3) Nonresident foreign nationals not entitled to maintain convertible dirham accounts may open term convertible accounts. Funds in these accounts may be transferred within a maximum period of five years in annual installments of 20%. The holders of these accounts may debit them, without prior authorization from the FEO, to make payments for current expenses or investments in Morocco. Holders may also transfer account balances to resi- dent or nonresident foreigners or to Moroccan nationals residing abroad. The recipients of the proceeds of these accounts may use them to cover certain expenses incurred in Mo- rocco, including investment financing for up to 50% of the concerned investor's share; the remainder must be financed with funds transferred from abroad. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 642 MOROCCO Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Importers may make advance payments for imports of capital goods up to 40% of the f.o.b. value of the imports. In the case of spare parts, consumer goods, and samples, advance payment is limited to the foreign exchange equivalent of DH 20,000. Importers may make payment in advance of the due date under a contract in exchange for a discount of at least 3% from the foreign suppliers. Except for goods imported by air, insurance policies for imports must be taken out with insurance companies in Morocco. For certain groups of goods, however, insurance policies may be underwritten abroad. This group includes (1) externally financed imports if the terms include foreign insurance; (2) capital goods and equipment under turnkey contracts; and (3) crude oil, gas, cattle, and wood. For all imports, a commercial security must be underwritten by the importer and domiciled at an authorized bank to cover eventual payment for goods and related services. This domi- ciliation is not required for imports that do not involve payments. Imports are not restricted, except for arms and explosives; secondhand clothing; chemical products that deplete the ozone layer; and wheels with used tires or retreads. These prod- ucts require an import license issued by the DFT. Imports of products that affect public health, morals, order, or security may be prohibited. Imports may be restricted for limited periods to protect infant industries or to countervail dumping. Tariff measures may be established for periods of five years to protect infant industries, and they may be extended to eight years. In the case of dumping, the product in question is subject to a prior import declaration for a maximum period of nine months and this measure is renewable once. During this period, investigations are carried out to deter- mine whether or not dumping is taking place and, if it is, to determine what tariff measures are to be introduced. Customs duties are levied on an ad valorem basis. A large number of consumer goods not produced in Morocco are subject to a 10% duty. Imports of products to be used in the manufacture of goods for export are exempt from customs duties. Specific rates are applied to certain agricultural products. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds All exporters must provide an export certificate guaranteeing repatriation and surrender of foreign exchange proceeds. Certain exports are exempt from this regulation. Proceeds from exports may be collected abroad and used directly to finance imports of goods and raw materials needed to manufacture goods for export. Effective December 16, 2003, companies exporting clothing, household textile products, and related products may grant a price reduction to their foreign clients of up to 3% of the invoice price, provided payment is made during the repatriation period of export proceeds. The 3% reduction may be applied by the buyer against the payment due. Foreign exchange must be surrendered within one month of the date of payment by foreign buyers specified in the commercial contract. In principle, this date must not be more than 150 days from the date of the shipment of the goods. This deadline may be extended if warranted by business conditions and approved by the FEO. Exporters are authorized to maintain up to 20% of export earnings in convertible dirham or foreign exchange accounts. Financing requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 643 Documentation requirements Exporters must provide an export certificate guaranteeing repatriation and surrender of proceeds from their exports. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection is not required; however, exports of food products may be subject to quality control. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of grain flour, charcoal, archaeological items, chemical products that deplete the ozone layer, and hides and skins require export licenses issued by the DFT. A tax of DH 34 a ton is levied on exports of phosphates. A 1% quality control tax is levied on exports of foodstuffs. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Authorized banks are permitted to provide foreign exchange —within specified limits, where applicable —for payments relating to international trade transactions, including transportation, services, technical assistance, income ( inc lud ing interest and dividends), and other current international transactions. Payments for freight, unloading, and storage are not restricted. Importers may pay for overweight freight charges in amounts not exceeding 10% of the amount initially stated in the commercial contract, as well as any penalty for the shipment. Effective November 19, 2003, representation and brokerage charges of exporters of goods or services (previously, exporters of goods only) may be settled for up to 10% of the value of exports of goods or services; this limit may be exceeded only when payment is made by debit to a CCPEX. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments In general, there are no restrictions on the transfer of profits, dividends, and income from investments or interest on loans. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are indicative limits on transfers of interest, which must be market based. Payments for travel Quantitative limits For tourist travel, authorized banks may provide Moroccan or foreign nationals the equiva- lent of DH 15,000 a person a year. Effective November 10, 2003, this allowance is in- creased to DH 7,000 (previously, DH 5,000) for a minor child on the passport of the bene- ficiary parent when accompanying the parent at the time of travel abroad. For a given trip, the tourist allowance may be combined, in whole or in part, with any other foreign currency allowances granted under a general or special FEO authorization. The same allocation for tourist travel may also be granted to Moroccan nationals living abroad upon their return to Morocco, provided they have not benefited from the 15% allocation on remittances within the previous 12 months, up to a limit of DH 20,000. Residents of foreign nationality who wish to travel abroad may be granted the foreign exchange equivalent of all their income savings. Effective November 10, 2003, Moroccan or foreign nationals residing in Morocco and Moroccan nationals residing abroad are eligible for a foreign currency allowance equivalent to DH 14,000 for Umra (lesser pilgrimage) travel. Business travel by exporters of goods and services may be financed without restriction by debiting convertible export promotion accounts or foreign currency accounts maintained with Moroccan banks. In the case of business travel other than by exporters of goods and services, annual foreign ex- change allowances are approved by the FEO on the basis of need, with a daily limit of DH 2,000. Banks have been authorized to provide allowances of up to DH 40,000 to small and medium-sized enterprises and of up to DH 20,000 a year for business travel by indi- viduals not belonging to either of these categories. Larger allowances may be approved by the FEO on proof of need. The allowances for specific business travel may not be added to other allowances, except for the tourist allowance. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Transfers for fam i ly maintenance and alimony payments require presentation of documen- tary evidence. Commercial banks are authorized to transfer retirement pensions provided by public and private agencies in favor of retirees residing abroad permanently. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 644 MOROCCO Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval from the Ministry of Health is required to make transfers abroad for medical treatment when the patient is not covered by an insurance policy. Authorized banks may sell foreign exchange to Moroccan nationals for travel abroad for medical treatment up to a maximum of the equivalent of DH 30,000, and to make transfers on patients' behalf for treatment abroad to hospitals and medical institutions concerned. Effective July 1, 2003, the power to authorize transfer for studies abroad was delegated to banks. Transfers for study abroad are authorized as follows: (1) an annual installation al- lowance equivalent to DH 20,000 and the same amount for a person accompanying a minor student leaving Morocco for the first time; (2) school fees to foreign academic institutions, in unlimited amounts, upon presentation of supporting documents; (3) allowances for living expenses amounting to (i) the equivalent of DH 7,000 a month for nonscholarship holders; (ii) DH 7,000 a month less the amount of the scholarship for scholarship holders; (iii) ex- penses required for boarding school plus DH 2,500 a month for school fees; and (iv) for students in the United States, the sum for tuition fees and living expenses stated in U.S. immigration documents; (4) payments of rent and corresponding charges to a foreign land- lord upon presentation of a lease and a certificate of residence or other equivalent docu- ment; (5) the purchase price of a computer, up to DH 25,000 for a three-year period; and (6) repayments of student loans contracted with foreign banks. Banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange to public officials and staff of international institutions for training and missions abroad and to medical staff in governmental institutions for attendance at profes- sional events abroad. Effective August 22, 2003, banks may transfer funds to cover emigra- tion processing costs. In addition, emigrants who have obtained a visa may purchase up to the equivalent of DH 25,000 for moving expenses. Indicative limits/bona fide test Requests for additional amounts require FEO approval, which is granted upon presentation of supporting documents. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign nationals residing in Morocco and employed in either the private or public sectors or engaged in professions in industry, commerce, or agriculture may transfer all their in- come. They may also contribute freely to pension or social security funds in their countries of origin. These arrangements apply equally to foreign spouses of Moroccan nationals. Commercial banks may transfer pensions paid by government or private organizations to retired individuals residing permanently abroad. In addition, retired foreign nationals and foreign spouses of Moroccan nationals may transfer their entire pensions. Banks may issue credit cards without restriction to (1) foreign nationals holding accounts in foreign currency or convertible dirhams; (2) staff of international organizations that have offices or headquarters in Morocco; (3) Moroccan nationals residing abroad who hold ac- counts in convertible dirhams or in foreign exchange; (4) exporters of foods or services who hold foreign currency accounts or a CCPEX; (5) economic operators, other than ex- porters of goods and services, who have a foreign currency allowance as specified in for- eign exchange regulations; and (6) effective February 17, 2004, Moroccan and foreign nationals residing in Morocco and Moroccan nationals residing abroad who have foreign currency allowances through a general or specific authorization from the FEO. The limit is the amount of funds in the beneficiary's account and the authorized foreign currency allowance. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Residents of Moroccan nationality must repatriate foreign exchange receipts accruing from all their claims on nonresidents and sell them on the foreign exchange market. Resident foreign nationals must repatriate only those foreign exchange receipts that result from their activities in Morocco. Repatriation must take place within one month of the date of the claim. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M O R O C CO 645 Effective October 30, 2003, sales of goods and services by a foreign supplier to a foreign client that are arranged by Mo ro c c an entities must have a profit margin of at least 10%, and the proceeds from the sale must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Exporters of goods and services may keep up to 20% of their foreign exchange receipts in foreign currency or convertible dirham accounts. Restrictions on use of funds N o. Controls on capital transactions Y e s. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The issue of capital market securities by nonresidents is prohibited. There are, however, no restrictions on the sale of Mo ro c c an securities by nonresidents. Proceeds from such sales may be transferred freely, prov ided that the relevant purchases are financed by foreign exchange inflows or other comparable means. In other cases, the proceeds must be depos­ ited in a convertible dirham account and may be transferred abroad over a five-year per iod. Purchases of foreign securities by residents of Mo ro c c an nationality and transfers of the funds required for such purchases are subject to the p r ior approval of the F E O. Au tho r ized intermediary banks may place foreign currency w i th correspondent banks abroad and may acquire sovereign securities issued by international financial institutions. Residents of for­ eign nationality are free to purchase securities abroad, prov ided that these purchases are financed from their foreign exchange holdings abroad or from their foreign currency ac­ counts or convertible dirham accounts. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to pr ior F EO authorization. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of these instruments by nonresidents is proh ib i ted. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases by Mo ro c c an nationals require p r ior F EO authorization. Residents of foreign nationality are free to engage in these transactions, prov ided they are financed w i th their own foreign exchange holdings. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require pr ior F EO authorization. On collective investment securities The regulations governing money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase loca l ly by nonresidents These instruments have not yet been developed in M o r o c c o. Sale or issue loca l ly by nonresidents These instruments have not yet been developed in M o r o c c o. Purchase abroad by residents Effective January 13, 2004, economic agents may acquire hedging instruments through authorized banks against price fluctuations for certain basic agricultural, m in ing, or energy products. These instruments may be traded on a secondary market. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are subject to pr ior approval by the F E O. Controls on credit operations Comme rc ial credits By residents to nonresidents Merchandise exporters are free to extend commerc ial credits to nonresidents for up to 150 days. Credits w i th longer terms may be extended w i th F EO approval, if justified on the basis of commercial necessity. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 646 MOROCCO Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment These transactions are subject to FEO approval. Local banks may extend loans in dirhams to nonresidents for the purchase or development of Moroccan real estate, up to 70% of the value of the real estate to be purchased or developed; these loans must be serviced with funds transferred from abroad or with debits from convertible dirham accounts. Moroccan enterprises may obtain loans abroad without limitation, provided that these are used to finance investment or foreign trade. Repayments from Morocco must be made through the banking system. Moroccan banks may issue or accept, in favor of residents, sureties issued on behalf of nonresidents in support of the participation of these nonresidents in markets abroad (the supplying of goods or services), the refund of down payments received from foreign cus- tomers, and the guarantee of loans or any other financial instruments mobilized in accor- dance with foreign exchange regulations. Moroccan banks may issue or accept, in favor of residents, sureties issued on behalf of nonresidents in support of the participation of these nonresidents in public or private con- tracting, supplying of goods or services, and the refund of down payments. They may also issue sureties on behalf of nonresidents in settlement of tax liabilities or financial obliga- tions. A counterguarantee from a foreign bank is required for sureties issued by Moroccan banks on behalf of nonresidents. When claims are entered under sureties issued or accepted in favor of residents on behalf of nonresidents, the relevant amounts must be repatriated to Morocco. Outward direct investments are subject to prior approval of the FEO, but residents of foreign nationality are free to invest abroad, provided that the operations are financed from their own assets abroad or from their holdings denominated in convertible dirhams or foreign currency. There are no controls on transfers made directly through the banking system of the pro- ceeds of the liquidation or sale of foreign investments, including capital gains when such investment is governed by the convertibility arrangement (financing by sale of foreign ex- change or other comparable methods). For the liquidation of any investment not fa l l ing under this category, the relevant proceeds must be deposited in a convertible time deposit account denominated in dirhams. Funds placed therein may be used in Morocco or trans- ferred over a five-year period in equal annuities. Controls on real estate transactions These operations are subject to the investment regime. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases of real estate abroad by Moroccan nationals require prior FEO authorization. Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign nationals may purchase real estate, except farmland, with funds from foreign exchange accounts. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents These operations are subject to FEO approval. However, Moroccan banks may grant loans to foreign individuals for the purchase or development of real estate in Morocco up to 70% of the value of the real estate to be purchased or developed. To residents from nonresidents These operations are subject to FEO approval. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Gifts and endowments are subject to prior FEO authorization; transfers of inheritance may be effected freely if the inherited property is subject to convertibility arrangements or under arrangements made before departure, if such transfers have not been already used by the deceased. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 647 Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants These operations are unrestricted, provided they are financed from the foreign assets of the parties concerned or from their assets in foreign currency or in convertible dirhams. Upon departure from Morocco, foreign nationals may transfer those assets not subject to the convertibility arrangement for amounts up to DH 25,000 or the equivalent for each year they were in Morocco. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings These earnings are transferable, provided that the gambling was financed with foreign currency. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Commercial banks may borrow abroad only to finance foreign trade or investment opera- tions on behalf of customers. Banks may open and maintain accounts abroad to effect payments and to manage hedging operations against price fluctuation risk on certain basic products. Lending by Moroccan banks is subject to FEO approval. However, banks may grant loans to nonresident foreign individuals for purchases or development of real estate in Morocco, up to 70% of the value of the real estate. Banks may use available cash held in foreign ex- change accounts (by foreign nationals, Moroccan citizens residing abroad, and exporters) to provide credits to foreign customers to finance Moroccan exports. Lending locally in foreign exchange FEO approval is required for these operations. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange These transactions are subject to prior FEO approval. Reserve requirements Convertible dirham and foreign exchange accounts are excluded from reserve requirements. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks An overdraft position is not permitted in foreign exchange accounts. These operations are subject to approval by the FEO and the monetary authorities. Author- ized intermediary banks may undertake foreign exchange investments with counterparts abroad and may purchase sovereign bonds and securities issued by international financial institutions. In banks by nonresidents These operations are subject to approval by the monetary authorities. Open foreign exchange position limits The open foreign exchange position limit for each currency is 10% of net capital and 20% in aggregate for all currencies. On resident assets and liabilities The assets and liabilities of these accounts are included in the calculation of banks' foreign exchange positions. On nonresident assets and liabilities The assets and liabilities of these accounts are included in the calculation of banks' foreign exchange positions. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 648 MOROCCO Changes During 2003 Exports and export proceeds December 16. Companies exporting clothing, household textile products, and related products were permitted to grant a price reduction to foreign importers of up to 3% of the invoice price, provided payment is made during the period for the repatriation of export proceeds. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers July L The authority to approve applications for foreign exchange for studies abroad was delegated to banks. August 22. Authorized banks were permitted to transfer funds to foreign government agencies to cover emigration processing costs. August 22. Banks were permitted to extend a foreign currency allowance up to the equivalent of DH 25,000 for moving expenses. November 10. The tourist allowance for a minor child included on the passport of a parent when accompanying that parent was increased to DH 7,000 from DH 5,000. November 10. Authorized banks were permitted to provide resident and nonresident Moroccans a foreign exchange allowance of up to the equivalent of DH 14,000 to cover expenses for Umra (lesser pilgrimage) travel. November 19. Exporters of services were permitted to transfer settlements of representation and brokerage charges up to 10% of the proceeds of services exports. Previously, only exporters of goods were permitted to do so. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers October 30. Proceeds from sales of goods and services by a foreign supplier to a foreign client that are arranged by a Moroccan entity were required to be repatriated and the profit margin on the sale was required to be at least 10%. Changes During 2004 Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers February 17. Banks were authorized to issue credit cards to Moroccan and foreign nation- als residing in Morocco and Moroccan nationals residing abroad who have foreign currency allowances through a general or specific authorization from the FEO. Capital transactions Controls on derivatives and other instruments January 13. Economic agents were permitted to acquire hedging instruments through au- thorized banks against price fluctuations for certain basic agricultural, mining, or energy products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Mozambique is the Mozambican metical. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The Bank of Mozambique (BM) sets the official rate on a daily basis, and adjusts this rate and intervenes in the foreign exchange market when the weighted average selling rate of commercial banks and exchange bureaus deviates significantly from the daily rate an- nounced in the immediately preceding days. The commercial banks and exchange bureaus, which participate in the market, buy and sell foreign exchange from and to individual cus- tomers at freely negotiated rates. The foreign exchange market is cleared twice daily through telex and telephone transactions. There is also an interbank money market as well as an interdealer market in foreign exchange outside the fixing sessions. On the basis of the nature of the BM's participation in the foreign exchange market, the exchange rate regime of Mozambique has been reclassified, effective January 1, 2003, to the category managed floating with no predetermined path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The metical may not be used for transactions abroad. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents The use of foreign currency by residents in domestic transactions is common, although not encouraged. Payments arrangements No. Administration of control The BM is responsible for foreign exchange policy and administers its control. International security restrictions No. 649 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 650 Payments arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) MOZAMBIQUE In exceptional cases, some private sector payments arrears can be rescheduled, subject to an agreement with the creditor and BM approval. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents other than monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes or as jewelry or ornaments. Controls on external trade The exportation of gold is governed by special regulations, while the same regulations that apply to other import items are applicable to the importation of nonmonetary gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Exports of domestic currency are subject to a limit of Mt 500,000. Nonresidents may export foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of $5,000 and, above that, up to the amount they declared on entry. Imports of domestic currency are subject to a limit of Mt 500,000, provided they had been previously exported. Foreign currency Imports of foreign currencies in excess of the equivalent of $5,000 must be declared. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Juridical persons must report the opening of such accounts to the BM. No. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be opened with funds from the conversion of foreign currency or from employment and technical assistance contracts approved by the appropriate institutions; transfers of such funds abroad are permitted once the origin of the funds has been proven. Convertible into foreign currency This is permitted for funds whose origin has been proven; prior approval is required. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. Yes. Advance payment requirements Documentary proof of the arrival of goods must be presented. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 651 Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection Inspections are performed on listed goods. Import licenses and other nontariff measures All imports must be registered with customs. A single-document import procedure is required. Negative list A negative product list exists for imports financed by donors' or creditors' funds. The re- cipients of the funds are responsible for procuring the products themselves. Some import support funds are allocated by the BM to commercial banks. Open general licenses A single-document import procedure is in effect. Import taxes and/or tariffs A variable import surcharge is levied on sugar. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Other Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds, except in cases authorized by the BM, must be collected through commercial banks. No. Yes. Yes. All exports must be registered with customs. A single-document export procedure is required. A variable export surcharge is levied on raw cashew nuts. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Personal payments Prior approval Exchange bureaus are authorized to sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $5,000 to individuals to pay expenses associated with travel, study, or medical treatment abroad, as well as for film rental, expenses for fairs and exhibitions, contributions to international organizations, and subscriptions to publications. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $5,000 for the payment of all types of invisible transactions and current transfers, except for profits and dividends from investments. Op- erations exceeding the limits and those relating to profits and dividends are subject to prior approval of the BM. Yes. Remittances of profits and dividends from foreign direct investment may be made in accordance with the specific project authorization. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 652 MOZAMBIQUE Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Foreign experts working in Mozambique may remit abroad all or part of their salaries, depending on the terms of their employment contracts. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Certain Mozambican nationals working abroad under officially arranged contracts (specifi- cally, miners in South Africa) are obliged to remit 60% of their earnings through the BM and to convert them into meticais. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Controls apply to all capital and money market transactions. All derivative transactions are subject to control. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Public and private enterprises need BM approval to borrow abroad. All foreign borrowing must be registered .with the BM. Borrowing by the government must be obtained on concessional terms. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Public and private enterprises need BM approval to borrow abroad. All foreign borrowing must be registered with the BM. Borrowing by the government must be obtained on concessional terms. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign investors are guaranteed the right to repatriate their initial capital. The incentives for foreign investments include tax and customs exemptions for specified periods and for access to domestic credit. Foreign investment proposals are processed by the Investment Promotion Center. Foreign investors may remit profits and dividends from their investments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 653 Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Nonresidents are prohibited from purchasing real estate and may enter into contracts only for leasing and concessions. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Controls apply on all personal capital movements. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Earnings from gambling are fu l ly transferable, provided they are confirmed by the casinos, in accordance with a special permanent authorization granted to the casinos by the BM. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad No prior approval is required, but the borrowing must be registered at the BM. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents A reserve requirement of 11.5% applies to deposits in both domestic and foreign currencies. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Limits are set as a percentage of core capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Prior BM approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 654 MOZAMBIQUE Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Prior BM approval is required, Prior BM approval is required, Yes. n.r. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement January 1. On the basis of the nature of the BM's participation in the foreign exchange market, the exchange rate regime of Mozambique was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange Arrangement The currency of Myanmar is the Myanmar kyat. In addition to the official exchange rate, an unofficial rate is determined on an officially tolerated parallel foreign exchange market. Foreign exchange certificates (FECs) are issued by the Central Bank of Myanmar (CBM) in denominations of 1, 5, 10, and 20 units and are exchangeable with euros, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and dollars or with authorized traveler's checks at the rate of FEC 1 per $1. FECs are widely used and serve the needs of visitors and investors in Myanmar. FECs may be exchanged for kyats at a fixed rate at FEC exchange centers. There is also an illegal parallel market that exchanges dollars with kyats at a premium over the parallel market FEC rate. Holders of FECs may open foreign currency accounts and/or deposit their FECs into their foreign exchange accounts. The kyat is off ic ia l ly pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 per SDR 1 within margins of ±1%. The exchange rates of the kyat for the euro, Bangladesh taka, Indian rupee, Japanese yen, Pakistan rupee, pound sterling, Sri Lankan rupee, Swiss franc, and the dollar are determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR. The exchange rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the appropriate cross rates in the Singapore market. The exchange rate of the parallel market, through which the majority of foreign exchange transactions take place, is determined freely. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with member countries of the ACU are made in AMDs through the ACU mechanism. Border trade may be conducted in euros, kyats, Japanese yen, Singapore dollars, U.S. dollars, and, in the respective border areas, Indian rupees, Chinese yuan, Thai baht, and Lao kip. Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. 655 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 656 MYANMAR Use of foreign exchange among residents Yes. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Myanmar is a member of the ACU. Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts Bilateral trade arrangements with neighboring countries exist. These arrangements do not provide for the extension of credit. Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Exchange control is administered by the CBM in accordance with instructions from the Ministry of Finance and Revenue (MFR). A Foreign Exchange Control Board headed by the Deputy Prime Minister allocates foreign exchange for the public sector. Ten percent of the gross earnings of Myanmar nationals working abroad must be paid as income tax. Myanmar nationals working abroad in UN organizations are not required to pay this tax. Measures have been taken to freeze the funds and other financial assets of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Arrears have been incurred with respect to debt-service payments of the central government. Imports and exports of gold are not allowed for the private sector. Jewelry for personal use may be brought into Myanmar, subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. Personal jewelry of a prescribed value may be taken out, subject to approval by the controller of foreign exchange and the condition that the jewelry be brought back into the country. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to customs when it was brought into Myanmar. Gold bullion may not be imported from any source. The export of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Residents, other than government officials, who have been granted an official permit to travel abroad are allowed to buy the equivalent of $100-$200 from the Myanmar Foreign Trade Bank (MFTB) and the Myanmar Investment and Commercial Bank on presentation of FECs from their own foreign currency accounts. Government officials are allowed to take out the equivalent of $500 when traveling abroad. Nonresidents leaving Myanmar within six months of arriving may take out any balance of foreign currency they brought in with them and may also reconvert the remaining balance of FECs purchased in excess of the minimum required purchase of $200 or its equivalent. The importation of Myanmar currency is prohibited. Foreigners may bring in up to $2,000 or its equivalent without any declaration. Effective August 14, 2003, tourists arriving in Myanmar are no longer required to purchase FECs equivalent to a minimum value of $200. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR Resident Accounts 657 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Approval required Foreign currency accounts of national firms may be kept with state-owned banks. Accounts may be opened in U.S. dollars or euros only by Myanmar nationals who earn foreign exchange. Account holders are allowed to effect imports under import licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce (MOC) on the basis of LCs or telegraphic transfers. With prior approval, account holders may use funds from their accounts to purchase air tickets for fam i ly visits abroad and to make payments for personal imports, for examination fees for their children, and for medical treatment abroad. Transfers of funds between accounts are permitted. Held abroad These accounts may be opened, but prior approval is required, Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Conversion is permitted only for payment of o f f ic ial expenses. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign currency accounts of diplomatic missions and international organizations and their home-based personnel may be kept with the MFTB only. For other nonresidents, prior approval is required. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but all debits and credits require prior authorization. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is required. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget An import program for the public sector is prepared annually as part of the foreign exchange budget drawn up jointly by the Ministry of National Planning and Economic Development and the MFR. Financing requirements for imports Imports are permitted relative to the level of export earnings. Advance payment requirements A 100% advance payment is required. Advance import deposits Yes. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports from countries under UN embargo or with which Myanmar has severed diplomatic relations are prohibited. The state economic enterprises under the different ministries are authorized to engage in their own external trade, but must apply for an export/import license from the MOC. Private importers also need to obtain licenses, and their imports must consist of 80% of priority items A and 20% of priority items B. Generally, no quota or ceiling is imposed on import items. Some restrictions apply to the imports of certain goods, ma in ly foodstuffs (e.g., monosodium glutamate, soft drinks, all types of biscuits, canned goods, instant noodles, liquors, beer, cigarettes, fresh or dried fruit, chewing gum, water, cake, and chocolate). Import licenses for foreign trading companies have been suspended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 658 Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs MYANMAR Certain items, such as opium and other narcotics, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion, may not be imported from any source. OGLs are issued on a case-by-case basis. Tariff rates range from zero to 40%. Agricultural implements, raw materials, and other essential imports are taxed at low rates, while the highest rates are applied to imports of luxury goods. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports must be fu l ly repatriated. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes No. Yes. Yes. Export trade may be conducted with any country without restriction, except with those under UN embargo or with which Myanmar has severed diplomatic relations. Export licenses of foreign trading companies have been suspended. In practice, state agencies responsible for production may export any product in excess of that which is needed for domestic consumption. State enterprises have a monopoly on the export of teak, petroleum, natural gas, pearls, jade, and other precious stones and metals. Since January 1, 2003, exports of rice have been liberalized in cases where there is an exportable surplus of production as determined by the authorities (previously, these exports were subject to a state monopoly). Local entrepreneurs involved in land reclamation projects are permitted to export 50% of the rice they have produced. Private traders and cooperatives are also permitted to export some beans and pulse, and rattan under valid export permits issued by the MOC. Border trade of certain products, including teak, rubber, petroleum, hides, leather, cotton, and groundnuts, is not permitted. Exports from which proceeds are received in foreign currency are subject to a commercial tax of 8% and an income tax of 2%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits All payments for invisibles outside the public sector are subject to approval, which is granted on a case-by-case basis. The maximum amount that may be remitted against FECs is $10,000 a month or its equivalent. Prior approval from the Controller of Foreign Exchange is required for remittances of insurance premiums. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Remittances to retired government employees are permitted only if the persons concerned were not Myanmar nationals throughout their term of service and are now residing in their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MYANMAR 659 native countries. Family remittances are permitted only for foreign technicians employed under contract by the government or by private firms established under the Foreign Investment Law. The limit is one-half of the net salary if the spouse is living abroad, and one-third of the net salary if the spouse is living in Myanmar. Balances of salary and lawfully earned income that remain after payment of taxes and deduction of living expenses of the worker and his or her family may be transferred abroad through a bank with the approval of the CBM. Yes. Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Other payments Prior approval Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Restrictions on use of funds Use of funds is subject to exchange control approval. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment The Myanmar Investment Commission may accept proposals for investment from foreigners for full ownership and under a joint-venture arrangement, with the share of foreign capital representing at least 35% of the total capital. To facilitate and promote foreign investment, the commission may grant exemptions from customs duties and other internal taxes on machinery and equipment imported during construction of the project, spare parts used in business, and raw materials imported for the first three years of commercial production, as well as exemptions from the income tax for a period of up to three consecutive years—including the year when production of goods and services began—or for longer than three years, depending upon the profitability of the enterprise. In addition, accelerated depreciation allowances may be granted. Types of economic activity and the sectors open to foreign investment are specified in a detailed positive list. The government guarantees that an economic enterprise formed under a permit will not be nationalized during the term of the contract or during an extended term. Repatriation of capital and profits is allowed through banks after payment of taxes and prescribed funds. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 660 MYANMAR Purchase locally by nonresidents Land may not be owned by foreign investors but may be leased from the state. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad State approval is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. n.a. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts August 14. The requirement that tourists arriving in Myanmar purchase FECs equivalent to a minimum of $200 was abolished. Exports and export proceeds January 1. Exports of rice have been liberalized, provided that an exportable surplus of production exists, as determined by authorities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 20, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Namibia is the Namibia dollar. The South African rand is also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Nam ib ia dollar is pegged to the South African rand at par. The exchange rate of the Nam ib ia dollar against other currencies is determined on the basis of cross rates of the South African rand against the currencies concerned in international markets. The exchange market in Namibia has developed as an extension of the exchange market in South Africa. No. No. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations, including for- ward cover, with residents in any foreign currency with respect to authorized trade and nontrade transactions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the out- standing commitments and accruals. Forward cover is also provided to nonresidents, sub- ject to certain limitations. Gold mining companies and houses may sell forward anticipated receipts of their future gold sales. Forward cover is provided in U.S. dollars only and is available to authorized dealers for maturities not exceeding 12 months at a time in the form of swap transactions involving Namibia dollars (South African rand) and U.S. dollars, with a margin based on the interest rate differential between the two currencies. Official cover of forward operations Special forward cover at preferential rates is provided for import financing. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts If a particular type of payment is not covered in the Exchange Control Rulings, an applica- tion is lodged with the Bank of Namibia (BON). Each application is considered on its merits. In accordance with the CMA arrangements, residents are not allowed to transact business in foreign currencies. Transactions may be invoiced in foreign currencies, but payments must be made in local currency. Namibia is part of the CMA, and no restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA. The BON has delegated some powers to authorized dealers who assist the BON in adminis- tering exchange control. When an authorized dealer is not empowered to approve a transac- tion under the terms of the Exchange Control Rulings, an application is lodged with the BON. The norms applied by the BON in scrutinizing applications are subject to policy guidelines established w i th in the CMA. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, the BON prohibits financial transac- tions with the Taliban. Payments arrears No. 661 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 662 NAMIBIA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) The exchange control regulations prohibit the purchase and sale, both domestically and abroad, of unwrought gold by Namibian residents without the specific authority of the BON. All such requests are considered on merit. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are permitted to purchase, hold, and sell gold coins within the CMA for numis- matic and investment purposes only. Controls on external trade All exports and imports of gold require the prior approval of the monetary authority. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency An individual may export up to N$5,000. Residents and contract workers departing from Namibia to destinations outside the CMA may take out their travel allowance in foreign banknotes. Foreign visitors leaving Namibia may take with them the unspent portion of the proceeds of foreign currency imported and exchanged in Namibia. Upon entry from countries outside the CMA, residents and nonresidents may bring in a total of N$5,000 in Namibian banknotes or R 5,000 in South African banknotes. There are no limitations on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Importation of foreign currency by nonresidents of the CMA is unrestricted. However, Namibian residents are only allowed to import into Namibia the residual balance of foreign currency initially exported. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Resident private individuals are allowed to hold foreign currency accounts with local authorized dealers, subject to prior approval. Effective March 3, 2003, the BON eliminated the documentary requirement for sales and purchases of foreign exchange (previously, forms A and E were required for amounts exceeding N$50,000). The amount of N$750,000 allowed for investment by resident private individuals may also be held in a domestic foreign exchange account. Approval is required and is granted on the merit of the application. Private individuals are allowed to invest up to N$750,000 and to retain abroad income earned overseas. No prior approval is required for these transactions. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Payments in foreign currency may be effected from resident accounts, provided the transaction is covered under the Exchange Control Rulings or when prior approval has been obtained. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Only foreign currency accounts of export-processing zone (EPZ) customers are allowed. These accounts are kept offshore with a local authorized dealer and are set up to facilitate the foreign currency disbursements of EPZ enterprises. Transactions through these accounts must conform to normal banking practices and must be carried out with the fu ll cognizance and approval of the authorized dealer concerned. For other residents, prior approval is required. The regulations that apply to these accounts in South Africa also apply in Namibia. EPZ nonresident accounts are allowed. These are Namibia dollar accounts funded with foreign currency that are used for the normal operational requirements and expenditures of EPZ ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 663 Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is required. enterprises and to facilitate local investments. Balances remaining in these accounts are freely convertible and transferable abroad. Blocked accounts Residents who emigrated from Namibia on or before February 28, 2002, may transfer their blocked funds abroad freely through an authorized bank. The assets of residents who emi- grated after that date are subject to normal emigration procedures. However, effective June 3, 2003, emigrants may transfer up to the equivalent of NS1.5 mil- lion a family unit or N$750,000 an individual, inclusive of any assets previously transfer- red abroad. Transfers in excess of these limits are subject to a transfer tax of 10% of the amount in excess of the limit. Emigrants may subsequently transfer annual income from their remaining blocked assets, but may not dispose of the assets through sale to Namibian residents. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Advance payment for the importation of capital goods is allowed upon filing an application with the BON. Authorized dealers may approve 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods as well as "cash-with-order" advance payments of up to N$50,000 a transaction for permissible imports other than capital goods. Documentation confirming receipt of the imported articles into Namibia (e.g., a b i ll of entry or local post receipts) is required. Letters of credit LCs may be established locally by authorized dealers. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs There are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the SACU. Imports from countries outside the SACU are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations. Permits are valid for one year for imports from any country outside the SACU and are expressed in value terms. At present, about 90% of imports require a permit. Namibia has the right to restrict certain imports (through customs duties or quantitative restrictions) from countries outside the SACU and, under certain conditions, from countries within the SACU. Taxes collected through the exchange system A general sales tax of 10% is levied on all imports in addition to a sales duty between zero and 15%, depending on the type of commodity. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All export proceeds are normally required to be repatriated within 30 days of accrual. Surrender requirements Exporters are allowed to retain export proceeds for 180 days after accrual in a customer foreign currency account with authorized dealers. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All exports from Nam ib ia over the amount of N$50,000 must be accompanied by an export declaration, and, upon receipt of export proceeds locally, the inflow of foreign currency must be declared. Letters of credit Guarantees Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 664 Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes NAMIBIA All exports, except to SACU member countries, require a license. Permits are required for exports of goods in short supply to non-SACU countries. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Authorized dealers may approve trade-related invisible payments without limitation and other invisible payments up to established limits. Larger amounts may be granted on pres- entation of documentary proof of need. Virtually all remaining controls on current account transactions have been liberalized, except in cases where limits were retained to maximize the effectiveness of remaining controls on capital outflows. No prior approval is required, but if a local company is contracting any loans via a local source, an application should be filed with the BON. The repayment of foreign loans requires BON approval. Residents ages 12 years or older may obtain up to N$ 140,000 a person a year and those ages less than 12 years may obtain up to N$45,000 a person a year. On June 3, 2003, these limits were increased to N$ 160,000 and N$50,000, respectively. Residents traveling to destinations outside the CMA are allowed to take out the foreign exchange that was made available to them in any form. Indicative limits/bona fide test Amounts in excess of the indicative limits are approved when the applicant provides docu- ments in support of a bona fide request. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits There are no restrictions on payments of medical costs. Remittances for alimony (subject to presentation of a court order) are permitted up to the equivalent of N$7,000 a month. On June 3, 2003, this limit was increased to N$9,000. Applications for the transfer of pensions are considered on the merits of each case. Effective June 3, 2003, the annual allowance for study abroad for a single student is the equivalent of N$ 160,000 (previously, N$ 140,000) and for a student accompanied by a non- student spouse N$320,000 (previously, N$280,000). Effective June 3, 2003, student holi- day allowances are N$50,000 (previously, N$40,000) for an individual and N$ 100,000 (previously, N$90,000) if accompanied by a spouse. Family maintenance transfers are lim- ited to N$9,000 a month for a recipient family (previously, N$7,000). Indicative limits/bona fide test Amounts in excess of the indicative limits for payment of study abroad are approved when applicants provide documents in support of a bona fide request. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Contract workers may transfer two-thirds of their monthly salary. No prior approval is required for travel expenses. Limits must be in accordance with prescribed travel allowances. Authorized dealers may permit up to the equivalent of N$20,000 a transaction for permissible imports. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Prior approval Applications are considered on the merits of the particular case. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 665 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Namibian private individuals may retain income earned abroad from any source other than merchandise exports. Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within 30 days of the date of accrual, unless exemption is authorized. Restrictions on use of funds Prior BON approval should be obtained to use such funds outside the CMA. Controls on capital transactions The investment limit for private residents abroad is the equivalent of N$750,000. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Inward transfers of capital from non-CMA countries for equity investment are freely per- mitted, whereas applications by residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, countries outside the CMA for bona fide long-term investments in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects owned or controlled by residents are considered on their merits. Nam ib ian corporations are allowed to invest substantial amounts in the SADC member countries, and dual listing of companies on both the Namibia Stock Exchange and other SADC stock exchanges is permitted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Proceeds from the sale of quoted or unquoted CMA securities, real estate, and other equity investments by nonresidents are freely transferable. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are permitted up to the N$750,000 (or its equivalent) foreign investment limit of resident individuals. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents The controls governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents The controls governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents The controls governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Prior BON approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Interest rates applicable on foreign currency-denominated loans should not exceed LIBOR plus 2%, while those on local currency-denominated loans should not exceed the prime overdraft rate plus 3%. Credit operations outside the CMA are subject to the specific approval of the BON, which is generally given for borrowing abroad with a maturity of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, except for speculative borrowing or consumer credit. Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of Nam ib ia's foreign trade and other approved purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 666 NAMIBIA By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment A wholly nonresident-owned company may borrow 100% of shareholder equity locally. Only companies that are 75% or more foreign owned are subject to exchange controls. Foreign loans to Namibian residents require prior approval, which is usually granted when the repayment and servicing of loans do not disrupt the balance of payments, and the level of interest rates paid is reasonable in terms of prevailing international rates. Effective June 3, 2003, corporations are allowed to borrow abroad using their local balance sheet as a guarantee when the investment required exceeds the limit of the equivalent of N$750 mil- lion (previously, investments in SADC members were subject to a limit of N$500,000). Yes. Yes. Applications by residents to retain funds in, or transfer them to, countries outside the CMA for bona fide long-term investments in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects owned or controlled by residents are considered on their merits. Effective June 2, 2003, the limit on outward direct investment was unified at N$750 million (previously, the limit for countries other than SADC members—other than Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland—was N$500 million). Consideration is given to foreign borrowings to finance direct investments with recourse to or guarantee from Namibia, implying that the local corporation's balance sheet may be used in negotiating such a facility. Approved for- eign subsidiaries may expand activities abroad without prior approval, provided such ex- pansion is financed by foreign borrowings or by profits earned by the foreign subsidiary. Namibian private individuals over 18 years of age may invest abroad or place in a domestic foreign currency account up to the equivalent of N$750,000, subject to the production of a Tax Clearance Certificate from the Namibia Inland Revenue. The investment may be in any form. Income earned abroad and capital introduced into Namibia on or after July 1, 1997, by private individuals resident in Namibia may be retransferred abroad, provided that the income and/or capital had previously been converted into Namibia dollars. The BON is now considering applications by private individuals to invest in fixed property, e.g., holiday homes and farms, in the SADC member countries. Inward direct investment Inward transfers of capital from non-CMA countries for equity investment may be effected freely. Yes. These purchases are permitted up to the N$750,000 (or its equivalent) foreign investment limit. Other purchases are subject to exchange control approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Residents require prior approval. To residents from nonresidents Residents require prior approval. Authorized dealers may allow the transfer of loans up to a limit of N$25,000 an applicant, a year. On June 3, 2003, this limit was increased to N$30,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NAMIBIA 667 Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Cash bequests and the cash proceeds of legacies and distributions from such estates due to nonresidents may be remitted up to N$500,000. Sums due in excess of this amount require prior BON approval. Residents must declare funds obtained and repatriate them to Namibia. Alternatively, an exemption may be obtained from the BON for the retention of such funds abroad. Each application is considered on its merits. Transfer by authorized dealers of monetary gifts of up to N$25,000 an applicant are allowed annually. On June 3, 2003, this limit was increased to N$30,000. If immigrants have formally declared their assets and liabilities and have no cash resources available with which to pay a debt, the BON may consider requests for exemption based on merit. Effective June 3, 2003, the regulations that apply to the transfer of assets abroad in South Africa also apply in Namibia. Emigrants are allowed to export any household and personal effects for an emigrating family unit or single person up to an overall limit of NS1.5 m i l l ion or N$750,000, respectively. Previously, families emigrating outside the CMA were granted the normal tourist allowance and were permitted to remit up to N$400,000 (N$200,000 for single persons). Emigrants are allowed to transfer abroad funds in excess of the aforemen- tioned limits, subject to a transfer tax of 10% of the amount in excess of the limits. Immigrants are required to furnish the exchange control authorities with a complete ac- count of their foreign assets and liabilities at the time of their arrival. Any foreign assets they transfer to Namibia may, through the same channel, be retransferred abroad. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Normally, Namibians are discouraged from participating in international lotteries. Most requests in this regard are thus declined. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Authorized dealers are generally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of Namibia's foreign trade and for other approved purposes. Prior approval is needed for lending not related to trade transactions. Only companies that are 75% or more foreign owned are subject to exchange controls, and permission is given for local financial assistance to be granted to nonresident-owned companies against a non- resident guarantee, provided the amount made available does not exceed the limit calcu- lated in terms of the formula requirements. Lending locally in foreign exchange Authorized dealers may lend money locally in Namibia dollars. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents As long as these deposits are liabilities to the public arising from operations in Namibia, they will be included in the basis for calculating the m in imum liquid assets and reserve requirements. The limit for credit facilities to any person or group of related persons is 30% of a banking institution's capital funds. In addition to the above limit, granted credit facilities of more than 10% of capital funds may not exceed, in aggregate, 800% of the total capital funds of the banking institution in Namibia. These limits apply to all customers irrespective of their citizenship. As long as these deposits are liabilities to the public, arising from operations in Namibia, they will be included in the basis for calculating the minimum liquid assets and reserve requirements. Credit controls The regulations governing deposit accounts in foreign exchange apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 668 Investment regulations Abroad by banks NAMIBIA Banking institutions are at all times required to maintain minimum local assets situated in Namibia of an aggregate value of not less than 100% of the amount of their liabilities pay- able in Namibia dollars (excluding capital funds), less any debit balances denominated in South African rand in the clearing account held with their associate banks in South Africa. Open foreign exchange position limits There is no distinction between residents and nonresidents. The net open position limit is 15% of a bank's share capital and unimpaired reserves. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Namibian pension funds and insurance companies are obliged by law to invest 35% of their total assets locally. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The maximum is 65% of the total assets of pension funds and insurance companies. With BON approval, qualifying institutions (i.e., insurance companies, pension funds, and fund managers) may invest up to 15% of total assets; the limit for investments made by unit trusts through unit trust management companies is 20% of total assets. However, the use of the asset swap mechanism by institutional investors has been prohibited since March 14, 2001. Institutional investors are allowed to acquire foreign portfolio investments up to the percentages mentioned above by way of foreign currency transfers based on a percentage of the previous years' inflow of funds. Ten percent of the net inflow of funds in the previous year may be invested on the stock exchanges of SADC member countries, subject to the limits in place. The definition of institutional investor includes the unit trust management company itself. The minimum is 35% of the total assets of pension funds and insurance companies. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2003 Resident accounts Nonresident accounts March 3. The BON no longer required the submission of forms A and E for sales and pur- chases of foreign exchange (previously, these forms were required for amounts exceeding N$50,000). June 3. Emigrants were allowed to transfer abroad up to the equivalent of N$1.5 million a family or N$750,000 a person. Additional amounts are subject to a 10% tax. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers June 3. The maximum amount that Namibian residents may take out when traveling abroad for business or holiday was increased to N$ 160,000 from N$ 140,000 per calendar year for persons 12 years or older and to N$50,000 from N$45,000 for each child under 12 years. June 3. The limit on payments for family maintenance or alimony payments with a court order were increased to N$9,000 from N$7,000 a month. June 3. The limit on living expenses for a student abroad was increased to N$ 160,000 from N$ 140,000 a year and to N$320,000 from N$280,000 for students accompanied by a non- student spouse. June 3. The student holiday allowance was increased to N$50,000 from N$40,000 or to N$ 100,000 from N$90,000 if accompanied by a spouse. June 3. Corporations were allowed to borrow abroad using their Namibian balance sheet as collateral in cases when the investment outside Africa exceeds the equivalent of the NS750 million. Capital transactions Controls on credit operations ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on direct investment Controls on personal capital transactions NAMIBIA 669 June 3. The distinction between an investment in SADC countries and in the rest of the world was removed, and the existing limits of N$500 million outside SADC countries and N$750 million in Africa were equalized at N$750 million. June 3. The maximum amount that authorized dealers may transfer in monetary gifts, including loans, was increased to N$30,000 from N$25,000 an applicant during a calendar year. June 3. The maximum amount that emigrants may transfer abroad was increased to N$1.5 m i l l ion a fam i ly un it or N$750,000 an individual from N$400,000, and N$200,000, respectively, inclusive of any assets previously transferred abroad. Addi- tional amounts are subject to a 10% tax. June 3. The maximum amount that residents may lend to nonresidents through an authorized dealer was increased to N$30,000 a year from N$25,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position as of February 29, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 30, 1994. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The Nepalese rupee has been pegged to the Indian rupee at the rate of Nrs 1.6 per Re 1 since February 1993. The reference rate of the dollar quoted by the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB) is based on the average of the quoted buying and selling rates of commercial banks. Exchange rates of other major currencies are quoted on the basis of overseas markets. Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for certain other currencies, with quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the dollar in markets abroad. Effective December 17, 2003, the 1% limit on the spreads between commercial banks' foreign exchange buying and selling rates no longer applies. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks provide forward exchange cover for trade transactions. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Convertibility between the Indian rupee and the Nepalese rupee is unrestricted in Nepal. All current transactions with member countries of the ACU other than India must be effected through the ACU. Payments for selected imports from India may be settled in dollars. Other imports and proceeds from exports to India must be settled in Indian rupees. Proceeds from exports to other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Commercial banks may transact in renminbi with Chinese tourists. Effective January 23, 2004, resident individuals may purchase Indian rupees and sell them to the NRB, and effective July 28, 2003, commercial banks are allowed to engage in inter- bank transactions in Indian rupees. Nepal is a member of the ACU. Yes. Payments in convertible currencies may be made without permission, subject to the proce- dures prescribed by the NRB. All exchange transactions must be settled through authorized dealers. Nonbank authorized dealers are licensed to accept foreign currencies only for their services to foreign nationals. n.a. No. Persons who have stayed abroad for more than one month and have an official source of foreign earnings may import up to 10 kilograms of gold. 670 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 671 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Foreign banknotes, other than Indian banknotes, may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresidents may take out any unconverted foreign banknotes they brought in. Yes. Residents and nonresidents may bring in foreign banknotes freely but must declare amounts exceeding the equivalent of $2,000. No limit applies to Indian rupees. Resident Accounts Exporters are allowed to deposit up to 100% of export earnings in a foreign exchange ac- count to cover trade-related expenses. Nepalese citizens earning foreign exchange from working abroad (except in Bhutan and India) for more than three months may open these accounts. Commercial banks may accept deposits denominated in most of the freely usable currencies and are free to determine the rate of interest paid on deposits. Current accounts may be opened with a minimum equivalent to $500, and time deposits with a minimum equivalent to $3,000. Banks are free to determine the minimum balance on time deposits. Effective July 28, 2003, employment agencies are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts. Yes. Prior approval is required for commercial banks to open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts may be maintained in all specified convertible currencies, and balances in these accounts may be transferred abroad freely. Diplomats and foreign nationals, except Indian nationals, are free to open foreign currency accounts with Nepalese banks. Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Effective December 3, 2003, imports of 41 items (previously, 33 items) imported from India were eligible for payments in convertible foreign exchange. On February 2, 2004, another item was added, bringing the total to 42 items. Banks are required to obtain information regarding the business credibility of suppliers before opening LCs in excess of the equivalent of $50,000. Effective July 28, 2003, deferred-payment LCs of up to one year are allowed for all imports (previously, only imports of machinery and raw materials were eligible). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 672 Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs NEPAL Effective July 28, 2003, importers are allowed to make payments of up to the equivalent of $30,000 by draft or telegraphic transfer. Most imports are covered by OGLs. Imports of arms, ammunition, wireless transmitters, precious metals, and jewelry require special permission from the government. Yes. Quantitative restrictions are in effect for the importation of poppy seeds. There are seven tariff rates (5%, 10%, 15%, 25%, and 40%, and two special rates of 80% and 130%). Most goods are subject to either the 15% or the 25% rate. Nepalese citizens returning from abroad who have spent at least 15 nights out of the country are permitted to bring in goods worth the equivalent of Nrs 1,000 free of customs duty and sales tax. Citi- zens with official sources of foreign exchange earnings and who have stayed abroad for one month or more are allowed additional imports without official documentation. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 180 days of receipt. Exporters are al- lowed to accept short payments in export proceeds if they do not exceed the equivalent of $500 or 1%, whichever is higher. Approval of the NRB is required for amounts above the specified limit. Exporters may retain the export earnings on their foreign currency accounts with local banks. Commercial banks may grant preexport credits of up to 70% of the f.o.b. value of products to all individuals and institutions holding irrevocable LCs opened or endorsed by foreign banks and acceptable to Nepalese banks. Such credit may be provided for a maximum of three months; this period may be extended without penalty due to special circumstances beyond the control of the exporter. Exports to countries other than India are allowed only against irrevocable LCs or advance payments by foreign banks. Export consignments not exceeding $50,000 or its equivalent may be undertaken on the basis of a bank guarantee. Reexportation to India of non-Nepalese goods and reexportation to any destination of goods imported from India are prohibited. Preshipment inspection is not compulsory. Exports of items having archaeological or religious value, old coins, narcotics, and explo- sive materials are prohibited. The export volume of selected ready-made garments to the United States is restricted by a quota system. Export taxes are levied on 23 specific items and a 5% service charge—based on the f.o.b. value of the item in question—is levied on all other exports. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 673 Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits Prior approval is required in the case of private sector loan amortization; approval is not required for foreign investors operating in Nepal to repatriate profits earned from their investments. Effective July 28, 2003, quantitative limits on travel allowances no longer apply. Previ- ously, the limit for travel to the United States and Western Europe was $2,000 or its equivalent and that for other countries was $ 1,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Effective July 28, 2003, the indicative limit for Nepalese passport holders is $2,000 or its equivalent. Bona fide payments in excess of the limit are permitted. Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Prior approval of the government is required for transfers related to medical expenses and costs related to study abroad. Yes. The use of credit cards abroad is allowed under specific guidelines. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Nonresidents may invest in equity shares of up to 25% of the capital of Nepalese companies. Yes. Yes. Yes. No such transactions have occurred. Specified borrowers may borrow from abroad in accordance with guidelines. Controls apply on all credit operations and guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 674 NEPAL Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Nepalese citizens, whether or not residing in Nepal, are not allowed to make any type of investment in foreign countries, except as specifically permitted by government notice. Exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad and investments abroad by any banking or financial institution incorporated in Nepal. Investments require prior approval in the form of a guarantee from the Department of In- dustry. Foreign investment is not permitted in cottage, small-scale, or defense-related in- dustries. Foreign investors may hold 100% equity in large and medium-scale industries. Foreign securities firms are permitted to form jo int ventures with local state exchange members, but their ownership is limited to 40%. Controls are in effect based on the provisions of the Company Act. Controls on real estate transactions Controls apply on all real estate transactions. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Approval of the NRB is required. Commercial banks may enter into interest rate swap arrangements with foreign banks and other financial entities without NRB approval. Lending locally in foreign exchange Exporters, tourism-related businesses, and specific industries are entitled to such credits. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No such transactions have occurred. Differential treatment is based on the type of currency. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.r. n.r. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement December 17. The 1% limit on the spreads between commercial banks' foreign exchange buying and selling rates was eliminated. Arrangements for payments and receipts July 28. Commercial banks were allowed to engage in interbank transactions in Indian rupees. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 675 Resident accounts July 28. Employment agencies were authorized to open foreign exchange accounts. Imports and import payments July 28. Importers were allowed to make payments of up to the equivalent of $30,000 by draft or telegraphic transfer. July 28. Deferred-payment LCs of up to one year were permitted for all imports (previously, only imports of machinery and raw materials were eligible). December 3. Forty-one items (previously, 33 items) imported from India became eligible for payments in convertible foreign exchange. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers July 28. Quantitative limits of the equivalent of $2,000 for travel to the United States and Europe and $1,000 for other destinations were replaced with an indicative limit of $2,000 for Nepalese passport holders for all destinations. Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments Changes During 2004 January 23. Individuals may purchase Indian rupees and sell them to the NRB. February 2. Forty-two items (previously, 41 items) imported from India became eligible for payments in convertible foreign exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position as of December 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of the Netherlands is the euro. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The Netherlands participates in the EMU with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Portugal, and Spain. The ECB may intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. No. No. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, nor is an underlying trade transaction required. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, certain restrictions are maintained on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to certain individuals and/or entities associated with Myanmar, certain individuals associated with the previous government of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe. In accordance with EU regulations, financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia (effective January 27, 2003) and the Democratic Republic of the Congo (effective October 2, 2003) are prohibited. Restrictions also apply on transfers with respect to Al-Qaida, the Taliban, and individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. Effective August 27, 2003, general sanctions against Iraq were lifted; restrictions are still maintained, however, with respect to certain individuals associated with the former government. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 676 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 677 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts In compliance with relevant UN Security Council resolutions and/or EU regulations, ac- counts belonging to specific persons and/or entities related to Al-Qaida, and the Taliban are blocked. Accounts belonging to specific persons or entities of Myanmar, Zimbabwe and the previous government of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are also blocked. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly those of the agricul- tural, steel, and textile sectors, as well as for goods of unknown origin. These apply to imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in some other countries. Imports of most products covered by the CAP from non-EU countries are subject to common EU regulations. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for only a few commodities, mostly of a strategic character. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 678 NETHERLANDS Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits Inward and outward capital transfers by residents and nonresidents are not restricted, but they are subject to reporting requirements based on the External Financial Relations Act. No. No. No. No. No. No. Limits are imposed on banks' total position in foreign currency and precious metals. Banks are required to report to the Nederlandsche Bank their position in each foreign currency and precious metal (spot, forward, and option positions) at the end of each month. On resident assets and liabilities Integrated reports of nonresident assets and liabilities are required. On nonresident assets and liabilities Integrated reports of nonresident assets and liabilities are required. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. Restrictions were introduced on transactions related to military activities in Somalia (EC Regulation No. 147/2003). August 27. General sanctions against Iraq were lifted. October 2. Restrictions were introduced on transactions related to military activities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Netherlands Antillean guilder. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions The guilder is pegged to the dollar, the intervention currency, at NA f. 1.7900 per $ 1. The official selling rate is NA f. 1.82 per $1. Official buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are set daily on the basis of rates of the dollar abroad. There is no tax, but a license fee of 1% applies to all transfers to nonresidents. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. The Central Bank (CB) issues exchange licenses where required. The Department of Fi- nance (DOF) issues import licenses where required, and authorized banks may provide foreign exchange for all current transactions without prior approval of the CB. Pursuant to UN Security Council resolutions, economic sanctions are imposed against Iraq, the Taliban, and individual groups and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Effective March 28, 2003, exports and imports of banknotes exceeding the equivalent of NA f. 20,000 must be declared to customs. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exportation is prohibited except for travel purposes. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency that they brought in, although amounts exceeding the equivalent of NA f. 20,000 must be declared to customs. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident individuals may hold these accounts without a special license. 679 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 680 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Transfers from a local bank account to foreign accounts are allowed up to NA f. 50,000 a quarter without prior CB approval. These accounts and all transfers from and to these accounts must be reported to the CB. No. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is required for accounts exceeding NA f. 200,000. In addition, these accounts may be funded only with foreign exchange. Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Imports with delivery dates exceeding payment dates by more than 12 months must be reported to the CB. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs No. No. Imported goods are subject to tariffs and levies. Goods for which locally produced substi- tutes are available are subject to import surcharges in Bonaire and Cura?ao. However, these surcharges will be phased out through the end of 2005. Effective January 1, 2003, the spe- cial levy on imports of motor vehicles and pleasure crafts was phased out completely. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds If export proceeds are not received within 12 months of shipment, the delay must be re- ported to the CB. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Most types of current invisible payments and remittances may be made freely. A license is required if the delivery and payment dates are more than one year apart. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES 681 Investment-related payments These transactions are subject to certain conditions. Prior approval Companies must submit their financial statements to the CB for verification of the actual amount of profits and dividends recorded before they may remit them. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Investments by residents in o f f ic ia l ly listed foreign securities (and in mutual funds whose shares are listed) are permitted free of license up to NA f. 100,000 a year, provided that these payments are effected through a local exchange bank. Reinvestment of proceeds from the sales of securities is also allowed. On capital market securities There are licensing requirements for most capital market transactions. Controls on derivatives and other instruments All of these transactions are regulated. Controls on credit operations Credit operations require licenses, which are normally granted. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Investments require licenses, which are normally granted. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Transfer of assets Only short-term loans are permitted without a license. Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents A license is required if these transactions involve local currency. Nonresident deposits with local banks are not subject to reserve requirements. CB approval is required for the acquisition of more than 5% of shares in other companies. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 682 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are not allowed to have negative net foreign asset positions. Any negative position is subject to penalty. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The limits are 40% for the first NA f. 10 million, 50% for the next NA f. 10 million, and 60% for additional amounts of the total provisions and liabilities. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition There must be sufficient assets in a particular currency to cover the liabilities in that cur- rency (currency exposure is not allowed). Other controls imposed by securities laws There is no securities law. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts March 28. Exportation and importation of banknotes exceeding the equivalent of NA f. 20,000 must be declared to customs. Imports and import payments January 1. The special levy on imports of motor vehicles and pleasure crafts was phased out completely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 5, 1982. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements The exchange rate of the New Zealand dollar is determined on the basis of supply and de- mand in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. New Zealand participates in PACER. Administration of control No. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Measures have been taken to prohibit dealing with or making available to any person assets of the Taliban and of other designated individuals and organizations associated with terror- ism, in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. A prohibition has been imposed on dealing with or making available to any person assets of the former government of Iraq, except for transfers to the Development Fund for Iraq or as authorized by the minister of foreign affairs and trade. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transac- tions with respect to Serbia and Montenegro have been suspended since December 1995 in cases in which it is clear that the assets, funds, or securities are not subject to any claim or interest on the part of the successor states of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia other than Serbia and Montenegro. Certain restrictions remain on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions pursuant to the UN Security Council resolutions with respect to Libya. No. No. Under the Financial Transactions Reporting Act of 1996, exports and imports of banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks exceeding $NZ 10,000 or its equivalent require customs docu- mentation (Border Cash Report). 683 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 684 NEW ZEALAND Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import prohibitions and restrictions affect some 70 products or classes of products— primarily plants, animals, and products considered dangerous to human health or not in the public interest. For nonprimary produce, tariffs apply to imported products that compete with New Zea- land's domestic production. All primary produce competing with New Zealand's domestic production is admitted free of tariff. Overall, 95% of imports (by value) are imported free of duty. Most tariffs are ad valorem, except for many clothing products, to which either an alterna- tive specific tariff of 19% or a corresponding alternative specific tariff expressed in dollars per unit —whichever is higher—applies. Tariffs on most imports from nonpreferential sources are 6-8%. The only tariffs over 15% apply to clothing and footwear (both 19%) and carpets (17.5%). Under the terms of the ANZCERTA and the SP ARTEC A agreements, imports from par- ticipating countries that meet the respective preferential rules of origin enter New Zealand duty-free, while Canada enjoys a margin of preference. Eligible imports from developing countries are allocated tariff preferences. All goods that are produced in the 49 least- developed countries are granted duty-free access. Products imported from Singapore are exempted from customs tariffs. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 685 Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Yes. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific require- ments have been met and an export permit has been issued. For conservation reasons, there are also restrictions or prohibitions on exports of various animals and plants. Yes. No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Under the Overseas Investment Regulations, there are separate authorization procedures for "nonland," "land," "farmland," and fishing-quota investments, which apply both to new investors and to existing foreign-controlled firms. Nonland investments involving the ac- quisition of over 25% of the shares of a New Zealand company —and where the considera- tion exceeds $NZ 50 million or which involve the purchase of property costing more than $NZ 50 million, to be used in carrying on a business —are subject to a bona fide investor test. Established foreign-controlled enterprises also need approval for investments exceed- ing $NZ 50 million in areas unrelated to that consented to originally. However, since these investors were screened when they first invested, the procedure is straightforward. Under the Fisheries Act, a nonresident must obtain either an exemption or a permission to acquire or to continue holding a fishing quota, an interest in quota, annual catch entitlement, or provisional catch history. Foreign ownership of Telecom Corporation of New Zealand, Ltd. is limited to 49.5%. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents For foreign investment in certain types of land, the investor must undergo a bona f ide test, and the investment must be in the national interest. Authorization is required for acquisi- tions of the following: land exceeding 5 hectares in area or where the consideration exceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 686 NEW ZEALAND $NZ 10 million; islands or land containing or adjoining reserves, historic, or heritage areas; foreshore or lakes in excess of 0.4 hectare; and land containing or adjoining foreshore in excess of 0.2 hectare. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 30, 1964. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Nicaragua is the cordoba. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling peg Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements The official exchange rate is determined and preannounced by the Central Bank of Nicaragua (CBN). Effective January 1, 2004, the exchange rate of the cordoba against the dollar is adjusted to depreciate 5% a year (previously, 6% a year). There is no tax, but the CBN charges a commission of 1% on sales of foreign exchange. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts International loans may be settled in the currency of the lender or in any other currency set by the lender. Operative Yes. Regional arrangements Nicaragua is a member of the CACM. Administration of control Exchange operations between private agents are not restricted. The CBN allows the central government, authorized commercial banks, and exchange agencies to conduct foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Off ic ial Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Payments arrears are maintained with non-Paris Club members. The Ministry of Promotion, Industry, and Commerce (MIFIC) and the National Admini- stration of Geological Resources coordinate, manage, and supervise exploitation, produc- tion, and exportation of gold. Natural and juridical persons may trade gold coins for nu- mismatic purposes only (commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967, 1975, 1980, and 2001). Controls on external trade A permit from the MIFIC is required to export gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On imports Foreign currency Imports of the equivalent of $10,000 or more require a customs declaration. The CBN is the only entity authorized to import nonredeemable money. 687 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 688 NICARAGUA Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad No limit applies on the amount of foreign currency that residents may hold in a bank. No limit applies on the amount of foreign currency that residents may hold abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Accounts denominated in cordobas are dollar-indexed, except for current deposit accounts. Conversion may be effected through transfers of funds into a foreign exchange account. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Only foreigners with approved immigration status (e.g., diplomatic missions and international organizations) may open these accounts. Domestic currency accounts Only foreigners with approved immigration status may open these accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Some import payments are made through certified drafts, but almost all are made through LCs. A certain group of imports is banned. Measures apply to certain imports, including those related to public health, national security, the environment, and national emergencies. The import tariff regime is harmonized with that of the CACM. The maximum tariff rate, which applies to chicken legs and thighs, is 170%. A 72% duty applies to rice imports from non-WTO countries. An additional 35% sovereignty tax is imposed on imports from Colombia (effective March 1, 2003, this tax no longer applies on imports from Honduras). State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Export licenses are generally not required, but all exports must be registered with the Ministry of Economy. Licenses are required for exports of wildlife, including worked goods and taxidermic work, and precious woods (excluding cedar and mahogany). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA 689 Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Capital Transactions No. No. No. No. No. For statistical purposes, these credits must be reported to the CBN within 30 days after being granted. Financial credits The same requirement applies as for commercial credits. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign exchange originating from new investments or additions to capital must be surren- dered to the CBN through commercial banks. However, as a result of the elimination of exchange controls, this regulation does not apply in practice. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange These instruments may be issued by the CBN, the government, or any private corporation registered in the local stock exchange. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition There are pruden t ial limits established by the Superintendency of Financial Institutions. There are prudential limits established by the Superintendency of Financial Institutions. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 690 NICARAGUA Imports and import payments March 1. The sovereignty tax imposed on imports from Honduras was rescinded. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement January J. The annual rate of crawl (depreciation) of the cordoba against the dollar was reduced to 5% from 6%. Changes During 2004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Niger is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at a fixed rate of legal tender CFAF 655.957 per €1, which is the official buy ing and selling rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. Exchange tax Authorized banks charge an exchange commission of 2% on exchanges involving euros and a commission on purchases and sales of other currencies, the rate of which is freely determined. In addition, they levy a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered in its entirety to the treasury. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services, and maturities may not take place after the payment due date for the imports or exports in question. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Niger is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account; therefore, settle- ments with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made in euros or the currency of any other Opera- tions Account country or any other currency stipulated in commercial contracts. Foreign currency accounts (FCAs) may be debited with domestic currency for the follow- ing transactions: cash purchases of foreign exchange, credit to another FCA, and payments to a resident. All other transactions through FCAs in domestic currency require prior BCEAO approval. For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents Foreign exchange may be used among residents only in transactions between authorized dealers and their clients. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. 691 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 692 NIGER Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency A multilateral clearing agreement exists between the WAEMU members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jointly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Most of the authority to supervise foreign exchange transactions has been delegated to authorized banks, which are required to report those operations to the MOF. The only operations that continue to require prior authorization of the MOF or the BCEAO involve residents' investments abroad, domestic accounts in foreign exchange, foreign exchange accounts held in currencies other than euros, and residents' accounts abroad. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. No. No. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the MOF. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Travelers are allowed to export CFA franc banknotes within the WAEMU. However, repurchases by the BCEAO of banknotes exported outside their area of issue continue to be suspended. In addition, the shipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondent banks located outside of the WAEMU zone is strictly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes for amounts exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 500,000 requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Nonresidents bringing in foreign banknotes, foreign currency traveler's checks, and other means of payment exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 1 million must declare the amounts to customs upon entry. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or banks abroad with authorization from the MOF, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. These accounts are valid for one year and renewal requires an application to the MOF at least one month prior to expira- tion of the validity period. If no application is presented by the beneficiary, the account must be closed at the end of the validity period. Individuals traveling abroad may open bank accounts abroad to deposit foreign currencies legally exported during travel and income earned during a stay abroad. Residents are re- quired to repatriate assets held in these accounts within 30 days of their return. Foreign accounts of national diplomatic representatives are not subject to any restrictions. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 693 Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. These accounts are valid for two years. For renewal of these accounts, account holders are required to submit an application with proof of their position and actual residence within one month prior to expiration of the validity period. The BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the WAEMU countries; therefore, these accounts may not be credited with banknotes of the BCEAO, French franc notes, or any other banknote issued by a central bank maintaining an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury. These accounts may not be overdrawn without prior authorization from the MOF, subsequent to BCEAO approval. Transfers may be made freely between nonresident accounts. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be freely debited for the purchase of foreign currencies on the official market. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Advance payments for imports require authorization, and importers may not acquire foreign exchange until the scheduled date of the payment. Exchange authorization and invoices are required. Domiciliation requirements All imports exceeding CFAF 5 million must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Goods exceeding CFAF 3 million f.o.b. require an inspection for quality and price. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Quantitative restrictions may be applied on products for public health and security reasons. Negative list Imports of narcotics and firearms are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). In addition, imports are subject to a 1% statistical fee and a community solidarity levy of 1%. All im- ports from outside the ECOWAS are subject to a community solidarity levy of 0.5%. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements The due date of payment for exports must be within 120 days after the goods have been shipped. Proceeds from exports, regardless of the purchasing country, must be repatriated in their entirety through the BCEAO no later than 30 days from the date of receipt. The repatriation of proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries is not required. Residents are required to surrender to an authorized bank all proceeds in foreign currency within one month from the date of receipt. Financing requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 694 NIGER Documentation requirements A customs declaration is required. Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports of more than CFAF 5 million, except those to WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. Authorization is required for exports of gold. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Payments for invisible transactions to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely. Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents traveling as tourists or on business to franc zone countries that are not members of the WAEMU are allowed to take out up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million in cash in foreign currency. Any sum above this amount may be taken out in the form of traveler's checks, certified checks, or other payment instruments. Foreign currency is issued upon presentation to an authorized bank of a ticket and a valid passport or identity card. Resident travelers must declare to customs and surrender to an authorized bank within eight days of their return any foreign means of payment in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 that they bring in. Prior approval is required for payment of family maintenance. Indicative limits/bona fide test Total net wages may be transferred upon the presentation of pay slips. Credit card use abroad Other payments Credit cards issued by resident financial intermediaries or foreign financial institutions may be used abroad. Indicative Urnits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions with countries that are not WAEMU members must be repatriated. Proceeds, except those from WAEMU members, must be surrendered within one month of the due date or date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 695 Capital Transactions All investments abroad by residents require prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of the financing of such investments should be effected by borrowing from abroad. Capital inflows to WAEMU countries are unrestricted. Capital transfers to all other countries re- quire MOF approval, but receipts are freely permitted. There are no controls on foreign investments in WAEMU countries or on capital outflows for repayment of loans, disinvestment abroad, and option contract purchases. These operations must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Prior authorization of the RCPSFM is required for the issuing and marketing of securities and real assets of foreign entities, canvassing, or advertising investments abroad. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents These are subject to declaration to the MOF for statistical purposes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Residents may purchase securities sold or issued by nonresidents only after obtaining the authorization of the RCPSFM. Purchase abroad by residents The prior authorization of the MOF is required for these operations. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may sell securities freely to nonresidents for disinvestment purposes, but the settlement by transfer abroad or by a credit to a nonresident's account requires an exchange license issued by the MOF. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents These instruments are virtually unknown in Niger. However, instruments of this type are governed by the rules and regulations normally applicable to securities and direct invest- ments. Residents are authorized to purchase abroad call and put options in commodities and securities. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Credits to nonresidents may be granted freely for merchandise exports if the due date of payment is within 120 days following shipment of the goods; commercial credits for ser- vices may be granted freely; or no time limit has been off ic ia l ly fixed for such payment. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls on the granting of loans of this type. Their repayment is, in general, authorized, subject to the submission of documents. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The granting of financial credit is subject to prior authorization of the MOF. For the trans- fer abroad of funds in this context, a foreign exchange authorization must be submitted for clearance from the MOF, together with the necessary supporting documents. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls, but funds required to service these facilities must be transferred through an authorized intermediary. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 696 NIGER Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The regulations governing financial credits apply. To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment There are no controls, but the necessary funds must be transferred from abroad through an authorized intermediary. If, however, these transactions take place between a direct invest- ment company resident in Niger and its parent company located abroad, the transactions are considered direct investments and require a prior declaration to the MOF. Participation in a company is considered direct investment if it exceeds 20%. Authorization from the MOF is no longer required for investments consisting of the acquisition by resi- dents of securities, for which the issue or marketing by nonresidents has been authorized in advance by the RCPSFM. At least 75% of such investments must be financed with borrow- ing from abroad. Inward direct investment Inward investment is subject to prior reporting to the MOF for statistical purposes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The liquidation of a resident's investments abroad must be reported to the MOF. Reinvest- ment of the proceeds of such liquidations is subject to prior MOF authorization. If rein- vestment is not authorized, the proceeds must be repatriated within one month through an authorized bank. There are no controls on the sale of foreign investment in Niger, but such operations must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Prior authorization of the MOF is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases for purposes other than direct investment in a business, branch, or company are allowed with prior declaration to the MOF. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Operations may be settled only after approval of the MOF. Following settlement, the liqui- dation or sale must be reported to the MOF and the BCEAO within 20 days. By residents to nonresidents Prior authorization of the MOF is required. To residents from nonresidents A declaration for statistical purposes and submission of a report to the MOF are required. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Gifts and endowments are subject to prior authorization of the MOF. Inheritances and dowries are generally authorized. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are subject to declaration to the MOF. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Immigrants who have acquired resident status must first obtain authorization from the MOF to settle debts contracted abroad while they were nonresidents. Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are subject to prior authorization of the MOF. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad All borrowing abroad must be reported to the Directorate of External Finance for statistical purposes. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and financial institutions may open accounts with correspondent banks but are not authorized to hold liquid assets, except to meet the needs of their current operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 697 Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Prior MOF authorization is required. Lending in foreign exchange by resident banks to resident individuals who are authorized to hold accounts in foreign exchange is subject to prior MOF authorization, after the consent of the BCEAO has been obtained. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Loans and other assistance granted to nonresidents are subject to prior MOF authorization, after the consent of the BCEAO has been obtained. Credit controls Yes. Investment regulations The regulations governing direct investment apply. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference of Insurance Markets (CIMA Code). Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Securities and mutual funds issued outside the WAEMU by a private or public entity that is not a resident of a member country may not be listed on a regional securities exchange. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad The CIMA Code does not allow insurance companies to invest abroad. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The CIMA Code includes specific rules for the use of insurance companies' technical reserves. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition The CIMA Code specifies that liabilities in a given currency must be covered by assets denominated in the same currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Multiple Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian naira. There are four exchange rates: (1) the official exchange rate, which results from auctions (Dutch) of foreign exchange by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN); (2) the interbank market exchange rate (NIFEX), at which commercial banks transact among themselves using proceeds from non-oil exports and personal transfers; (3) the bureau de change rate; and (4) the parallel market rate. During 2003, the average premium between the exchange bureau rate and the CBN's auction rate narrowed to 9.8% from 14.8%. The official exchange rate of the naira is determined in the Dutch auction system, in which banks bid on behalf of legitimate users to purchase foreign exchange from the CBN with requests supported by the required documentation; The auction is a sealed bid-multiple price system, with the marginal exchange rate being the rate that clears the market. Auc- tions take place twice a week; the CBN announces the amount on offer the day before the auction, and the auction results the day after. Funds purchased from the CBN must be used for eligible transactions only, subject to stipulated documentation requirements. Such funds are not transferable in the interbank foreign exchange market. The NIFEX rate is freely negotiable among authorized dealers, including commercial banks. Funds obtained through the Dutch auction system may not be used on the NIFEX. Effective January 1, 2004, Nigeria participates in the W-ERM II of the WAMZ, which requires that the spot exchange rate between the Nigerian naira and the dollar be maintained within margins of ±15% around the central rate. However, the CBN has not yet implemented these measures. No. No. Forward exchange transactions in the interbank market are permitted among the authorized foreign exchange dealers and between the dealers and their customers, subject to prudential limits and provided that the transactions relate to trade in goods and nonfactor services. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.r. Yes. Yes. The CBN formulates basic foreign exchange policy and issues directives as appropriate for the operation of the interbank market. The CBN approves and revokes the appointments of authorized dealers or authorized buyers of foreign currency, and supervises and monitors the operation of the interbank market. International security restrictions No. 698 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade NIGERIA 699 An agreement has been reached with Paris Club creditors to restructure Nigerian o f f ic ial external debt. Most of the arrears are owed to Paris Club bilateral creditors, but there are also small ar- rears to multilateral and non-Paris Club bilateral creditors. While the arrears to Paris Club creditors were cleared under the rescheduling agreement, new arrears to Paris Club credi- tors accumulated during 2002-2003 as debt-service payments fell short of the amount due as agreed in the rescheduling operation. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed, without special permission, to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Controls on external trade The importation and exportation of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF). Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency The exportation of naira notes and coins by residents is prohibited; travelers are allowed to export a maximum of N 10,000 per trip, subject to declaration. The exportation of amounts in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent must be declared or evidence of the origin of the funds must be provided. Importation of naira notes and coins by residents is prohibited; travelers are allowed to import a maximum of N 10,000, subject to declaration. Foreign currency The importation of amounts in excess of $5,000 or its equivalent must be declared. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Any person may open, maintain, and operate a domiciliary account designated in foreign currency with an authorized dealer. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Conversion is permitted only with respect to balances remaining after the completion of contracts or the account holders' business in Nigeria. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts External accounts are maintained for diplomatic representatives of all countries and international organizations. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries, with payments from other external accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for payments to other external accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. Domestic currency accounts Funds derived from local sources may be deposited in nonresident accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident accounts may be credited with proceeds from services rendered locally, and remittance can be effected subject to adequate documentation. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 700 NIGERIA Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports The CBN may not sell foreign exchange for imports of bottled water, tobacco, or beer or other imports on the prohibited list. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports, irrespective of their value, are subject to preshipment inspection. Importers are responsible for the payment of 1% of the f.o.b. value of goods as a service charge for the Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme. Import payments covered by confirmed LCs are made, on presentation of the specified documents to the overseas correspondents, on the understanding that the goods paid for will arrive in Nigeria and that all shipping documents are filed by importers with an authorized dealer within 90 days of negotiation of the specified documents. Unless a "clean report of inspection" has been issued on the goods to be imported, foreign exchange settlements for imports may not be effected. Transactions involving the use of b i l ls for collection are allowed. Transactions executed on private sector initiative do not, however, carry any government guarantee or obligation. Remittances are to be made through the official foreign exchange market or with autonomous funds, and the relevant shipping documents for the transactions are to be channeled through authorized dealers. The importation of the following items is prohibited: barite and bentonite, gypsum, kaolin, barley and malt, beer and stout, bottled water, poultry (including eggs), maize, millet, sorghum, vegetable oils, wheat flour, secondhand clothing, gaming machines, housewares, mosquito repellent coils, plastic, used air conditioners, compressors, textile materials containing hazardous chemicals (such as chloride), refrigerators, motor vehicles and motorcycles more than eight years old, and retreaded or used tires. The importation of cassava, cassava products, and frozen poultry across land borders is prohibited. Effective February 28, 2003, the importation of biscuits, noodles, spaghetti, and toothpicks is prohibited. On March 26, 2003, temporary restrictions on imports of printed fabrics and other textiles were lifted. An appropriate insurance certificate issued by a registered insurance company in Nigeria is required for importing goods. Import duties range from 2.5% to 150%. The minimum duty of 2.5% applies to agricultural inputs (e.g., fertilizers) and industrial raw materials that are not locally available. The maximum duty of 150% applies to cigarettes, table water, and other bottled water, both flavored and unflavored. Most goods are subject to rates between 5% and 20% due to con- cessions provided to a wide range of goods that help local production. More than 190 prod- ucts carry tariffs of 100% or higher. The trade-weighted average was 17.4% in 2003. Tariff protection is high for finished goods. In addition, the following import surcharges apply: a 5% port development surcharge; a 1% Raw Materials and Development Council surcharge; a 0.02% freight rate stabilization surcharge earmarked for the Nigerian Shippers Council; and an ECOWAS levy of 0.5%. Certain categories of imports are exempt from import taxes. Imports that were duty-free in the past are now subject to a duty charge of at least 2.5%. Effective July 1, 2003, imports of sugar confectionaries were banned. Imports of sugar are subject to a 50% duty. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of shipment of the goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 701 Surrender requirements Non-oil exporters are permitted to sell their export proceeds to authorized dealer banks at interbank rates, or use the funds to finance eligible transactions. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Dom ic i l ia t ion Other Export licenses Payment for exports should be made with LCs or any other international mode of payment. Repatriated non-oil export proceeds and other inflows should be held in domiciliary accounts maintained with authorized dealers in Nigeria. Holders of the domiciliary accounts have easy access to their funds maintained therein, subject to the existing guidelines, and may sell their export proceeds to banks other than those where they maintain their domiciliary accounts. Exports require the following: (1) completion of an off ic ial foreign exchange form; (2) registration with an authorized dealer; (3) certification by the collecting/negotiating bank; (4) submission of all original copies of bills of lading relative to all commercial ex- ports to the collecting/negotiating bank; and (5) proof of payment of administrative charges to the Nigerian Export Supervision Scheme. Production of unrefined gold and petroleum products is subject to licensing. The exportation of African antiques, works of art, and objects used in African ceremonies is prohibited, except under certain conditions. Exports of timber (rough and sawed), raw hides and skins, scrap metal, unprocessed rubber latex and rubber lumps, palm kernels, and yam tubers are prohibited. Exports of petroleum are handled by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation and are subject to special arrangements. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Applications for foreign exchange must be submitted to banks; such payments are allowed, subject to documentation requirements. Indicative Urnits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Transfers of profits are permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved, subject to completion of the official foreign exchange form for invisible trade and other documentation requirements. Authorized dealers are required to submit monthly reports to the CBN on capital transfer and repatriation and remittances of profits and dividends. Applications for the remittance of profits and dividends from capital investment are made through authorized dealers and do not require prior approval, but are subject to documentation requirements. Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest on b i l ls for collection transactions is limited to a maximum of 1% above the prime rate prevailing in the country of the beneficiary. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Yes. Authorized dealers may sell foreign exchange for personal travel, subject to documentation requirements (i.e., a completed off ic ial foreign exchange form for invisible trade, a valid passport, and evidence of travel). There are additional documentation requirements for travel for medical and business purposes. Up to 100% of net salary after taxes may be transferred abroad, subject to documentation requirements. Up to 5% of consulting and legal fees for projects of a h igh ly technological nature, for which local expertise is not available, may be remitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 702 NIGERIA Quantitative limits Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be received through banks. Surrender requirements All proceeds from oil companies are sold directly to banks, including the CBN. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Applications for private capital transfers abroad are processed by banks, subject to satisfactory documentation. No prior approval is required, except in the case of the Debt Conversion Program (DCP). Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions may be conducted through authorized dealers, subject to documentary requirements. Purchase abroad by residents Residents of Nigeria may deal in foreign currency securities and may buy from, or sell to, nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without prior approval. Bonds or other debt securities On money market instruments The DCP regulates the purchase of selected Nigerian foreign debt instruments (mainly CBN promissory notes arising from past consolidation of unsecured trade credit arrears) at a discount, and the disposition of the naira proceeds on the conversion of such debt. Purchase abroad by residents While documented investments are permitted, the transfer to external accounts is not. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Permission of the FMF is not required for nonresident individuals or companies (other than banks) registered in Nigeria that are controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable companies to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or permit overdrafts for periods of up to 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Approval is not required from the FMF for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. However, official agencies and state-controlled corporations need the prior approval of the FMF for any foreign borrowing. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies is also subject to approval from the FMF. There are no ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy. The Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) deals with all matters relating to registration and the prescription of applicable incentives for direct capital investment in priority areas. Authorized dealers must issue a Certificate of Capital Importation within 24 hours of the receipt of capital. Nonresident investors are required to register their investment with the NIPC for statistical purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 703 Controls on liquidation of direct investment Approval of the FMF is not needed. Capital proceeds arising from the subsequent disposal of investments made under the DCP may only be repatriated 10 years after the effective investment of the proceeds, and are limited to 20% a year. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans To residents from nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Residents may make cash gifts not exceeding $500, or the equivalent, to charitable organi- zations and $200 to individuals a year, subject to documentation requirements. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gambling is prohibited. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Reserve requirements Reserve requirements are not applied on foreign exchange deposits. Liquid asset requirements Liquid asset requirements are not applied on foreign exchange deposits. Investment regulations Abroad by banks CBN approval is required. In banks by nonresidents The inflow of funds is subject to the provisions of the Money Laundering Decree. Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 704 NIGERIA Changes During 2003 Imports and import payments February 28. The importation of biscuits, noodles, spaghetti, and toothpicks was prohibited. March 26. Temporary restrictions on imports of printed fabrics and other textiles were lifted. July 1. Imports of sugar confectionaries were banned. Exchange arrangement January 1. Nigeria joined the W-ERMII of the WAMZ. Changes During 2004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position as of February 29, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 11, 1967. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Norway is the Norwegian krone. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the krone is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. Monetary policy is anchored in accordance with an inflation- targeting framework. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Yes. Effective January 1, 2004, use of foreign exchange for cash payments between residents is permitted, subject to notification to the Bank of Norway (BN). Previously, foreign exchange cash payments between residents were not allowed. Payments arrangements No. Administration of control The BN exercises control in cooperation with the MOF. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On February 24, 2004, Norway notified the IMF that, in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council Resolutions, measures have been taken to freeze financial assets and im- pose restrictions on financial transactions with respect to: (1) certain individuals associated with the former government of Iraq (effective May 25, 2003, UN Security Council Resolu- tion No. 1483) and the previous government of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; (2) certain members of the current governments of Myanmar (effective August 15, 2003) and Zimbabwe (effective July 4; 2003); and (3) individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. Effective September 26, 2003, financial sanctions imposed against Libya were lifted following the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution No. 1506. Yes. No. No. A resident or nonresident who on entry into or departure from Norway is carrying Norwegian and/or foreign banknotes and coins equivalent to more than NKr 25,000 a person a journey is required to no t ify the Customs Administration on the prescribed form. A resident or nonresident staying in Norway who receives a dispatch by post, courier, or other form of transport containing Norwegian and/or foreign banknotes and coins from abroad, or who sends such a dispatch abroad, equivalent to more than NKr 25,000, is required to no t i fy the BN in writing. 705 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 706 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad NORWAY Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. A notification and reporting requirement applies if transactions and/or average balances at the end of the previous 12 months exceed the equivalent of NKr 100 million. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad A notification and reporting requirement applies if transactions and/or average balances at the end of the previous 12 months exceed the equivalent of NKr 100 million. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency A notification and reporting requirement applies if transactions and/or average balances at the end of the previous 12 months exceed the equivalent of NKr 100 million. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. The accounts belonging to the following are blocked: (1) certain individuals associated with the former government of Iraq and the previous government of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; (2) certain members of the current governments of Myanmar and Zimbabwe; and (3) individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The direct or indirect imports of all rough diamonds, round logs, and timber products from Liberia are prohibited. Imports of cultural items from Iraq are prohibited. Other imports subject to regulation are listed and require licenses. The trade in or transfer of cultural property that has been removed from Iraq illegally is prohibited. Other imports subject to regulation are listed and require licenses. Yes. Yes. Certain measures are imposed for sanitary or phytosanitary reasons or in order to satisfy labeling requirements. Under the EEA agreement and other preferential agreements, most imports are not taxed. In general, tariffs on industrial goods are low, while tariffs on agricultural products are higher. All products from the least-developed countries may be imported duty- and tariff-free. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 707 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Exports subject to regulation are listed and require licenses. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents The BN has not issued any foreign exchange regulations governing these transactions. The only control applies to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment and establishment. Collective investment schemes, insurance companies, and private funds are subject to non- discriminatory limitations on exposure to derivatives. Sale or issue abroad by residents Limits on exposure to derivatives apply to issues by residents of derivatives abroad and locally. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The BN has not issued any foreign exchange regulations governing these transactions. The only control applies to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature that may be affected by laws on inward investment and establishment. This includes gen- eral nondiscriminatory provisions on ownership control in financial institutions based on EEA directives. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 708 NORWAY Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Arrangements for payments and receipts No. Credit institutions and investment firms are subject to nondiscriminatory, exposure regula- tions. Net positions must be kept within 25% of these institutions' capital liability (equity and subordinated loan capital). The book value of a bank's domestic and foreign holdings of real property, and shares in real estate holding companies may not exceed 4% of total assets. Savings banks are not allowed to acquire or purchase shares in a sea vessel. Nondiscriminatory rules on ownership control in financial institutions, based on EEA directives, apply. Credit institutions and investment firms are subject to exposure regulations. Net positions of up to 15% of institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital may be taken out in indi- vidual currencies, and the aggregate positions must be kept within 30% of the financial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital. Insurance companies and pension funds are subject to controls regarding classes of invest- ments held against technical provisions to ensure a sufficiently diversified portfolio (e.g., there is a combined cap of 35% on domestic and foreign shares). Collective investment schemes are subject to limitations on investments, which are related to the place of listing. Insurance companies are subject to nondiscriminatory exposure regulations. Net positions must be kept within 4% of non-life insurance companies' technical provisions and within 3% of life insurance companies' technical provisions. There are no currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition for investment funds. However, such regulations exist for insurance companies and pension funds, for which net financial assets in a given currency have to be equivalent to at least 80% of tech- nical provisions in the same currency at any time. An insurance company cannot have negative financial assets in a currency. Other controls are included in the Act on Securities Funds and Rules for Asset Manage- ment, and regulations on insurance activities and pension funds. Changes During 2003 May 25. Restrictions were imposed on financial assets and financial transactions with re- spect to persons and entities associated with the former government of Iraq (UN Security Council Resolution No. 1483/2003). July 4. Restrictions were imposed on financial assets and financial transactions with respect to certain individuals of Myanmar. August 15. Restrictions were imposed on financial assets and financial transactions with respect to certain citizens of Zimbabwe. September 26. Restrictions on Libya were lifted (UN Security Council Resolution No. 1506). Changes During 2004 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. Use of foreign exchange for payments in cash between residents was permitted, subject to notification to the BN. February 24. The authorities informed the IMF of certain restrictions imposed in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 19, 1974. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Oman is the rial Omani. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The exchange rate of the rial Omani is pegged to the dollar at RO 1 per $2.6008. The com- mercial rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements with Israel and the use of its currency are prohibited. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Effective January 1, 2003, the GCC Customs Union came into effect. Administration of control The Central Bank of Oman has exclusive exchange control authority; there is no exchange control legislation. International security restrictions Restrictions are imposed with respect to Israel. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. No. Controls on external trade Gold transactions with Israel are prohibited. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Residents are not allowed to maintain domestic currency accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. 709 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 710 OMAN Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are required for some imports. Importers must be registered in the commercial register. Negative list Companies operating in Oman and trading in manufactured oil products are prohibited from importing specified products as long as domestic production is deemed adequate to satisfy local demand. Other nontariff measures Imports from Israel are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs In accordance with the GCC Customs Union, a maximum CET of 5% is applied on most dutiable goods, and duties range from 5% for most goods to 100% for alcoholic beverages. Duties are not levied on imports from GCC countries or on government imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. Documentation requirements Exports to Israel are prohibited. Export licenses Export taxes No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for invisibles are generally not restricted, except for payments to Israel. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents OMAN 711 Capital Transactions Yes. Foreign share ownership in Omani companies is generally limited to 70%, but it may be raised to 100%. A nonresident portfolio investor may not hold more than 10% of the shares in an Omani company. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The Oman Development Bank may provide medium- and long-term loans at preferential interest rates for financing projects in priority sectors. In addition, the government provides loans at subsidized interest rates for projects with a majority Omani shareholding that are used for industrial production of exports, use indigenous raw materials or labor, or promote the development of tourism. Investment in business firms in Oman by nonresidents requires prior approval. Foreign ownership is generally limited to 70%, but it may be raised to 100% in certain cases. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad These transactions are not allowed, although some exceptions apply to citizens of the GCC countries. Yes. No. Foreign borrowing by individual commercial banks is restricted to 300% of their net worth. Subceilings of 200% and 100% are applicable for foreign loans with maturity periods of up to five years and up to two years, respectively. Effective April 5, 2003, foreign currency borrowing by nonbank financial institutions is increased to 100% of net worth (previously, 40%). Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending to nonresidents is limited to 30% of the lending bank's net worth with a sublimit of 5% for an individual nonresident borrower. Open foreign exchange position limits A limit of 40% of banks' respective capital and reserves applies. In order to limit maturity mismatches, effective January 1, 2004, the cumulative gaps of respective banks in domestic and foreign currency may not exceed 15% of cumulative liabilities (outflows) in each of the first five time bands. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 712 OMAN Arrangements for payments and receipts Capital transactions Changes During 2003 January 1. The GCC Customs Union came into operation. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions April 5. The limit on foreign currency borrowing by nonbank financial institutions was raised to 100% from 40% of net worth. Changes During 2004 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January L The cumulative gaps of respective banks in domestic and foreign currencies could not exceed 15% of the cumulative liabilities (outflows) in each of the first five time bands. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations All current international transactions are conducted in the interbank exchange market. Banks may purchase foreign exchange from foreign exchange companies (FECs) at freely negotiated rates. No new exchange licenses will be issued to money changers, and existing money changers have been given until June 30, 2004, either to convert to FECs or to close. No. No. The maximum term of forward cover provided by banks for trade transactions is 12 months, although this may be rolled over; these facilities are also provided for funds transferred from abroad for portfolio investment. The State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) provides forward cover for frozen foreign currency accounts (FCAs) and the National Debt Retirement Program, subject to an annual fee of 4% on onshore dollar deposits. For deposits made under FE Circular No. 45 of 1985, the forward cover fee is 5.5%. No forward cover is offered on new foreign currency deposits. Authorized dealers (ADs) may extend forward cover for imports, exports, and foreign private loans. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Yes. Yes. Yes. Pakistan is a member of the ACU. Payments to, and receipts from, member countries of the ACU for current transactions are effected in AMUs, at the rate of AMU 1 per $1. Accounts are settled every two months. The SBP has delegated authority to a number of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies and to sell or purchase foreign exchange within limits prescribed by the SBP for different transactions. Banks are allowed to provide foreign exchange in excess of the prescribed limit for bona fide requirements. In addition, the SBP issues licenses to FECs for the sale and purchase of foreign currency in cash and for other business remittances. 713 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 714 PAKISTAN International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Effective June 10, 2003, restrictions on transactions with Serbia and Montenegro were lifted (FE Circular No. 9). Yes. No. Local trade in gold bullion is unrestricted. No restrictions apply to exports. Imports may be effected only through dealers authorized by the government. An individual may take out up to PRs 500 to India and PRs 3,000 to other countries. Exports of foreign currency in excess of $10,000 or its equivalent require permission. Ex- ports exceeding $10,000 or PRs 3,000 to Afghanistan may be effected by international organizations, subject to certain terms and conditions. An individual may bring in up to PRs 500 from India and PRs 3,000 from other countries. Resident Accounts Banks and nonbank financial institutions are allowed to offer new FCA schemes. Holders of frozen (old) FCAs are permitted to purchase special dollar bonds of the government of Pakistan against the outstanding balances in their FCAs or to convert the foreign currency into Pakistan rupees at the prevailing exchange rate. These accounts may be credited with remittances from abroad, traveler's checks, and for- eign currency notes. However, receipts from exports of goods and services, earnings from services of residents, earnings and profits of overseas offices or branches of Pakistan firms or companies and banks, and foreign exchange released from Pakistan for any specified purpose may not be credited to these accounts. FCAs maintained by resident corporate bodies or legal entities may not be credited with foreign currency purchased in the kerb market. These accounts may be permanently retained. Under the new FCA scheme, institu- tions are free to keep or invest their deposits abroad or in Pakistan. To lend these deposit funds to borrowers in Pakistan for trade-related activities, ADs are required to observe prudential regulations of the SEP. ADs are free to decide the rate of return that they offer to depositors. Effective September 10, 2003, family remittances and all other remittances effected by nonresidents to residents exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 (previously, PRs 10,000) are exempt from the requirement of filing forms; however, they must be declared to ADs (FE Circular No. 16). Balances of up to the equivalent of $1,000 may be held abroad by residents in any country (except the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, India, and Israel) in FCAs, which may not be used for operations from Pakistan without the approval of the SBP. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts PAKISTAN 715 Nonresident Accounts Pakistan nationals residing abroad; foreign nationals, whether residing abroad or in Pakistan; charitable organizations and firms and companies owned by persons who are otherwise eligible; and diplomatic missions and the staffs of international organizations may open FCAs and transact freely with banks in Pakistan without prior approval of the SEP. ADs are free to decide the rate of return they offer to depositors. Deposit holders wishing to make payments in Pakistan in Pakistan rupees must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from their accounts into Pakistan rupees. If Pakistan nationals holding such accounts return to Pakistan, they may retain the accounts permanently. There is no ceiling on interest rates on these accounts, and accrued interest is exempt from income tax. There are no restrictions on the opening of FCAs by diplomatic missions or by staffs of international organizations. Holders of frozen (old) FCAs are permitted to purchase dollar bonds of the government of Pakistan against outstanding balances in their FCAs. Funds mobilized under the new FCA scheme are not required to be surrendered to the SBP nor does the SBP provide forward cover for such accounts. The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies residing outside Pakistan are designated nonresident accounts. Different rules apply to the nonresident rupee accounts of individu- als, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to the nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for non- bank nonresidents without prior SBP approval when the accounts are opened with funds received from abroad through banking channels or with rupee funds accepted for remit- tance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified purposes may be made by authorized banks without prior approval. Effective March 17, 2003, foreign shipping companies and airlines with offices or agents in Pakistan may open and operate interest-bearing rupee accounts, provided that the interest is used only to meet local expenses. Convertible into foreign currency Domestic currency accounts are convertible into foreign currency when opened as con- vertible rupee accounts with funds received from abroad. Blocked accounts Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Foreign exchange budget Yes. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Effective April 1, 2003, advance payments of up to 50% (previously, 33.33%) are allowed when the goods are of a specialized or capital nature (FE Circular No. 6). Payments exceed- ing this limit require SBP approval. Foreign currency financing is available for a maximum period of 180 days. Clean-on-board shipped bills of lading and other documentation as stipulated by contracts or LCs are required. Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are not required. Positive list Negative list A positive list is maintained with respect to imports from India. Many of the products on the negative list consist of products banned for religious and health reasons, and goods banned under international agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 716 PAKISTAN Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of 36 items on the health and safety list are restricted. Imports of 17 items on the procedural list must meet certain technical requirements (e.g., petroleum) or certain other conditions (e.g., unassembled cars). Effective July 1, 2003, the import tariff structure consists of four rates: 5%, 10%, 20%, and 25%; higher tariffs apply on beverages, liquor, spirits, motor vehicles, and vinegar. A 6% tax is levied on the value of imports by commercial importers. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated by the due dates of bills of exchange or within six months of shipment, whichever is earlier. Export proceeds may be held in a special exporter's account for up to three working days for the purpose of sale to an AD only. Exporters are required to sell their proceeds in the intrabank market within three days. Ef- fective August 15, 2003, exporters may retain up to 10% (previously, 6%) of the f.o.b. value in their FCAs for advertising, purchase of designs and patterns, market studies, bona fide export claims, and to cover export proceeds, without approval from the SBP (FE Cir- cular No. 15). For software and service sector exports, this limit is 35%. Exporters report- ing an increase of more than 10% in export earnings may keep 50% of the additional earned amount in FCAs. Financing requirements Foreign currency financing is available for a maximum period of 180 days. Documentation requirements The documents required are a firm order and Form E. Effective June 16, 2003, this re- quirement does not apply to exports of textbooks for schools and colleges for Pakistani students and other institutions operating under embassies abroad (FE Circular No. 12). Domiciliation Yes. Preshipment inspection Preshipment inspection is mandatory for basmati rice exports. Export licenses Export taxes Other export taxes No. An export development surcharge of 0.25% is levied on all exports, except for a few speci- fied items. Effective January 4, 2003, this amount is to be paid to the SBP or an authorized bank when the export proceeds are realized (previously, it was collected by customs upon shipment) (SRO 10(1)72003). An income tax of 1.25% applies to export proceeds; a reduced rate of 1% applies to exports of goods manufactured in Pakistan. A rate of 0.75% applies to exports of bed linen; blan- kets; ceramics; cutlery; engineering goods; handmade carpets and rugs; horticultural prod- ucts; jewelry; leather and textile products; pharmaceutical products; surgical equipment; sporting goods; and wooden furniture, doors, and windows. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers ADs may issue foreign currency-denominated traveler's checks for any purpose, provided they are paid for with an equivalent amount of foreign currency. Trade-related payments The payment of freight against invoices is unrestricted. Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Commissions, brokerage fees, and other charges are generally limited to 5% of invoice values. A rate of 1% applies for cement, and higher rates apply for a few other goods. Indicative limits/bona fide test Indicative limits or bona fide tests apply to the payment of commissions. Investment-related payments The remittance of dividends declared on current profits may be made freely to foreign shareholders if the investment was made on a repatriable basis. The remittance of profits by branches of foreign companies—other than banks and those engaged in insurance, shipping, and the airline business —and of dividends to foreign portfolio investors credited ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 717 to their convertible rupee accounts is permitted without restriction, provided that the required documents are submitted to the SEP. Remittances of royalty, franchise, and technical fees or service charges in the financial sector are allowed, subject to certain restrictions. Prior approval is required for the transfer of profits only by the branches of foreign companies and banks. Interest payments are allowed up to 1.5% over LIBOR. However, there is no limit on inter- est for project loans. The payment of interest is permitted under imports only on a usance basis. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test No indicative limits or bona fide tests apply to the payment of profits and dividends. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Yes. The prescribed limit is $50 or its equivalent a person a day up to a maximum of $2,100 a calendar year. However, ADs may provide additional travel allowances in bona fide cases. Foreign exchange allowances for students' tuition fees and expenses, as required by institutions, may be obtained from ADs without approval from the SEP. Effective January 21, 2003, the limit on remittances of premiums on all types of life insurance policies was removed. Previously, the limit was PRs 350,000. For medical costs, approval is required and is granted on a case-by-case basis. Allowances for professional training abroad are granted at the equivalent of $1,200 a month. For family maintenance and alimony payments, allowances are determined on a case-by-case basis. Indicative limits/bona fide test Limits are set by the banks without reference to the SEP. Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits No limits apply to individuals with regard to subscriptions and membership fees. For pro- fessional and specialized organizations, the limit is PRs 20,000 a calendar year. Prior approval is required for the payment of consulting and legal fees. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds of foreign exchange earnings must be sold to an AD. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature With prior SEP permission, Pakistani residents, as well as firms and companies, may make equity-based investments, including portfolio investments, in companies abroad (i.e., joint ventures) on a repatriable basis. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents No controls apply on the sale of securities purchased in Pakistan. Nonresidents, however, are not permitted to issue securities in Pakistan. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 718 PAKISTAN Purchase abroad by residents Prior SBP approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents may sell or issue securities with approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan (SECP). The proceeds associated with these issues must be transferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of plants and machinery abroad. Transfer of funds required to service these securities issues is permitted. Nonresidents are allowed to trade freely in registered corporate debt instruments and bonds listed on the stock exchange, federal investment bonds, Pakistan investment bonds (PIBs), and market treasury bills (MTBs). Foreign bank branches in Pakistan and foreign- controlled investment banks are permitted to make investments in registered, listed corporate debt instruments in the primary and secondary markets. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior SECP approval is required. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents No controls apply to the purchase of certificates of investment, PIBs, MTBs, and term finance certificates by nonresidents. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are not permitted to issue such instruments in Pakistan. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Residents may sell or issue money market instruments after obtaining approval from the SECP. The proceeds associated with these issues must be transferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of plants and machinery abroad. The transfer of funds required to service these securities issues is permitted. Nonresidents are permitted to purchase units of the National Investment Trust, the State Enterprise Mutual Fund of the Investment Corporation of Pakistan, and other mutual funds listed on the Pakistan stock exchange. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Residents may sell or issue securities after obtaining approval from the SECP. The pro- ceeds associated with these issues must be transferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of plants and machinery abroad. The transfer of funds required to service these securities issues is permitted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted, except for rights issues. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits of up to six months are permitted with respect to exported goods, and up to 121/2 years with respect to the export of plants and machinery. To residents from nonresidents Residents have been granted general permission, with certain conditions. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These credits are not allowed. However, effective June 25, 2003, ADs are allowed to ex- tend rupee overdrafts to foreign nationals locally up to the extent of their requirements (FE Circular No. 13). Previously, the limit was the equivalent of two months' salary. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 719 There are no controls on these transactions. Parent companies of multinationals are also permitted to provide loans for financing the foreign currency cost of projects, as well as working capital requirements. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents These transactions are allowed with certain controls. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are subject to compliance with other credit controls. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Direct investment abroad requires prior approval under foreign exchange laws. Liquidation proceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. Pakistani resi- dents, as well as firms and companies, may make equity-based investments, including port- folio investments, in companies abroad (i.e., joint ventures) on a repatriable basis. Prior SBP permission is required, however. Prior approval is not required for investment in the manufacturing and services sectors. Foreign investors are allowed to hold equity up to 100% in new industrial units. Investment in arms and ammunition, security printing, currency and minting, high explosives, and radioactive substances requires prior approval. Investment in the production of alcoholic beverages is prohibited. Foreigners are permitted to make investments in services, infra- structure, social, and agricultural sectors, subject to the condition that the foreign equity investment be at least $300,000 or the equivalent. Foreign investors may hold 100% equity in social and infrastructure sectors. In the case of the services sector, they may hold 100% of equity for five years, subject to the following conditions: (1) remittances of profits and dividends are restricted to 60% of total equity during the five-year period; and (2) a mini- mum of 40% of the equity must be transferred to Pakistani investors within a period of five years, including disinvestment through the stock exchange. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Residents are not permitted to purchase real estate abroad. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases for business purposes are not restricted. Sale locally by nonresidents Sales of real estate by nonresidents engaged in real estate businesses are permitted. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Up to PRs 500 is permitted. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Remittance is not allowed. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Foreign-controlled investment banks are permitted to borrow locally for their working capi- tal requirements of up to 100% of their paid capital, reserves, etc., subject to observance of all other nonbank financial institutions' rules. Banks are required to maintain domestically not less than 80% of their assets against time and demand liabilities as specified in Part A of Form X, as prescribed in Rule 17 of the Banking Companies Rules of 1963. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 720 Borrowing abroad PAKISTAN Transactions are allowed for temporary periods, and only if they are necessary for the normal course of business. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions are allowed only for purposes of financing exports and imports against foreign currency deposits. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange There are no locally issued securities that are denominated in foreign currency. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange All bank and nonbank financial institutions that accept foreign currency deposits may use deposited funds freely in Pakistan. Any other use is subject to prudential regulations. Reserve requirements Banks are required to maintain separate dollar cash reserves with the SBP against foreign currency deposits. The requirements are 5% in a nonremunerated cash reserve account and 15% in a special cash reserve account, the interest rate of which is announced monthly. Rupee deposits are subject to a 15% reserve requirement, which must be held in approved securities. Liquid asset requirements In accordance with prudential regulations, balances must be kept in dollars. Credit controls Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In accordance with prudential regulations, balances must be kept in dollars. All bank and nonbank financial institutions that accept foreign currency deposits may use deposited funds freely in Pakistan. Any other use is subject to prudential regulations. In banks by nonresidents Prior approval is required. Open foreign exchange position limits There is an aggregate foreign exchange exposure limit for each bank equivalent to 10% of its paid-up capital, with maximum and minimum limits of PRs 500 million and PRs 50 million, respectively. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Nonresidents are not allowed to issue securities in Pakistan, and residents require specific permission to make portfolio investments abroad. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts June 10. Restrictions on transactions with Serbia and Montenegro were lifted (FE Circular No. 9). Resident accounts Nonresident accounts September 10. Family maintenance and all other remittances from nonresidents to residents up to the equivalent of $10,000 were exempted from the requirement of filing forms, but they must be declared to ADs (FE Circular No. 16). Previously, the limit was PRs 10,000. March 17. Foreign shipping companies and airlines with offices or agents in Pakistan were allowed to open and maintain interest-bearing accounts, provided that the interest is used only for payment of local expenses. Imports and import payments April 1. The limit on advance payments for goods of a specialized or capital nature was raised to 50% from 33.33% (FE Circular No. 6). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and export proceeds PAKISTAN 721 July L A new import tariff structure came into effect with rates of 5%, 10%, 20%, and 25%. January 4. The export development surcharge of 0.25% was required to be paid to the SBP or an authorized bank once the export proceeds have been realized (SRO 10(1)72003). Previously, this was collected by customs upon shipment. June 16. The Form E requirement ceased to apply to textbooks for schools and colleges for Pakistani students (FE Circular No. 12). August 15. The amount of the f.o.b. value that exporters may retain in an FCA for advertising, purchase of designs and patterns, market studies, bona fide export claims, and to cover export proceeds without approval from the SBP was increased to 10% from 6% (FE Circular No. 15). Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 21. Unlimited remittances of premiums on all types of life insurance policies were allowed. Previously, those exceeding PRs 350,000 were subject to regulations. Capital transactions Controls on credit operations June 25. ADs were allowed to extend rupee overdrafts to foreign nationals locally up to the extent of their requirements (FE Circular No. 13). Previously, the limit was two months' salary. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PALAU (Position as of December 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 16, 1997. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Palau is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The currency of Palau is the U.S. dollar, which circulates freely, Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements n.a. Regional arrangements Palau participates in PACER and PICTA. Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No restrictions apply on exports or imports of banknotes; however, transactions exceeding the equivalent of $ 10,000 must be reported under the Money Laundering Act of 2001. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts n.r. n.a. n.r. No. No. Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts 722 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Blocked accounts No. PALAU 723 Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of controlled substances, guns, ammunition, nonquarantined fruits, live plants, and animals is restricted. The tariff for general imports is 3%; government, personal, medical, and food imports are exempted. Effective July 3, 2003, the tariff for cigarettes was increased to $2 per 20 from $0.50 per 20 and the ad valorem tax on tobacco products was increased to 150% from 100%. Cosmetics and toiletries are subject to a tariff of 25%; carbonated soft drinks, $0.10 per 12 ounces; beer, $0.03 per ounce; liquor, $0.30 per ounce; wine, $0.20 per ounce; wine coolers, $0.05 per ounce; liquid fuel, $0.05 per gallon; and vehicles, 5% ad valorem plus $250. On September 12, 2003, an ad valorem tax of 25% was imposed on bottled water. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes No. No. No. Yes. Export taxes are levied on fish at $0.25 per kilo. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. No. Yes. No. No. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 724 PALAU Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The Palau National Code restricts foreign direct investment without local ownership. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents According to the constitution, only citizens of Palau and corporations wholly owned by citizens of Palau may acquire title to land or waters in Palau. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Specific provisions apply only to the Palau National Development Bank, which is not involved in commercial banking. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2003 Imports and import payments July 3. The tariff for cigarettes was increased to $2 per 20 from $0.50 per 20. July 3. The ad valorem tax on tobacco products was increased to 150% from 100%. September 12. An ad valorem tax of 25% was imposed on bottled water. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 26, 1946. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Panama is the Panamanian balboa. It is the unit of account and is limited to coins. Other legal tender The dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The balboa is pegged to the dollar at the rate of B 1 per $ 1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade No. No. No. No. No. Imports and exports of gold in any form, other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers, require a license if effected by residents other than the monetary authorities. Ex- ports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1% ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U.S. coins, which are exempt) are subject to a duty of 0.5%. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 725 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 726 PANAMA Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. For rice products, pork meat, poultry meat, and tomato paste and puree, a contingent mechanism was negotiated under the WTO agreement to facilitate the exchange of permits, thereby allowing imports of these products at preferential tariff rates. All tariff rates are calculated on an ad valorem basis and are assessed on the c.i.f. value of imports. Trade reform has resulted in simplified tariff bands of zero, 3%, 5%, 10%, and 15%. The exceptions to the maximum tariff of 15% are automobiles (17%) and sugar (50% on imports exceeding a historical average price range). Also included are several other products (mainly foodstuffs) whose tariffs are the maximum (and declining) levels negoti- ated with the WTO, including dairy products (90-173%); rice (130%); onions (90%); beef (40%); pork (70-90%); boneless and whole hams (83%); some poultry (300%); cabbages, carrots, celery, and lettuce (32.5%); cooking oils (20-30%); margarine (20%); salt (87%); ketchup (70%); and tomato paste and puree (87%). All imports into the area designated as the Colon free zone and the newly established export-processing zones are exempt from duties. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports of certain drugs, firearms, and ammunition are prohibited or restricted. Any prod- uct (including raw materials and machinery) may be imported into the Colon free zone and stored, modified, processed, assembled, repacked, and reexported without being subject to customs procedures. Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, other minerals, unrefined sugar, coconuts, scrap metal, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Certain nontraditional exports (with a minimum local cost-of-production content of 20%) are eligible for tax credit certificates equivalent to 20% of value added. Export-processing zones are exempt from all taxes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA 727 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 4, 1975. Currency The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Guinea kina. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the kina is determined freely in the interbank market, in which author- ized banks participate. The commercial banks, the only authorized foreign exchange deal- ers, publish rates for all current transactions with their customers within a maximum spread of 2% between the buying and selling rates. No. No. Exporters and importers are free to take out forward cover with the commercial banks at market-determined rates. Each commercial bank is subject to a prudential limit on its un- covered forward position. Official cover of forward operations Authorized dealers (ADs) may take out forward exchange cover among themselves or for their clients. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Contractual commitments to persons residing outside Papua New Guinea and expressed in a foreign currency must be paid in foreign currency. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency. Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control These transactions are unrestricted provided there is a real underlying transaction, Residents may not use foreign exchange for domestic transactions, Papua New Guinea participates in the following arrangements: the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, PACER, PICTA, and APEC. Foreign exchange control is administered by the Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG) under the Central Banking Act (Foreign Exchange and Gold Regulation). Overall policy is deter- mined by the government with the advice of the BPNG. The BPNG has delegated consider- able powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Guinea, which have been appointed ADs in foreign exchange. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. Yes. 728 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA 729 Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents may trade gold freely within Papua New Guinea, The export of gold is restricted to licensed gold exporters. For the large mines, licenses are given in conjunction with relevant mining development agreements. For exports of alluvial gold, specific export licenses must be obtained from the BPNG. BPNG approval is required for the export of domestic currency in excess of K 200 in bank- notes or K 5 in coins, including those issued for numismatic purposes. Visitors are free to take out the amount of currency they brought in and declared on arrival in the same calendar year. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Approval required Yes. Resident business entities are required to obtain BPNG approval, except for term deposits placed for a minimum of 90 days. Held abroad These accounts may be held abroad, but BPNG approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency ADs may hold such accounts under correspondent bank arrangements. Approval from an AD or the BPNG is required where applicable. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Approval required BPNG approval is required. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval from an AD or the BPNG is required where applicable. Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 730 PAPUA NEW GUINEA Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports ADs may approve applications for import transactions that are not subject to quotas or li- censing requirements without referring to the BPNG. Payments exceeding K 5,000 require commercial invoices, shipping documents, and customs forms. Letters of credit Issuance by ADs is subject to BPNG approval. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of a limited number of goods are restricted for reasons of health and security. Licenses apply on certain products, including firearms, chemicals, and drugs. These measures are applied to protect health and security. The import tariff regime consists of the following rates: (1) zero for essential items (includ- ing food staples, such as rice and meat not produced domestically); (2) 8% or 11% for basic goods (including some consumer goods and raw materials); (3) 40% for intermediate goods; (4) 55% for luxury goods; (5) 15% or 100% for selected goods that have domestic substitutes, such as tinned mackerel and citrus fruits; and (6) 85% for sugar. Under a tariff reform program covering the period 1999-2006, import tariffs are gradually being reduced. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements The retention period for export proceeds is six months. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be sold to an AD within six months of the date of export. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Customs forms must be submitted to the BPNG or an AD after each shipment. Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses Without quotas Licenses for exports other than gold are granted by the Department of Trade and Industry or the relevant government department or authority. Licenses for gold exports are granted only by the BPNG. Licenses are required for exports of logs, pearls, fishery and marine products, wood chips, sandalwood, rattan, coffee, cocoa, and copra. Log export licenses are issued based on minimum export price guidelines. Export taxes Export taxes apply on logs, mineral products, and crocodile skins. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits ADs may approve payments and transfers up to the equivalent of K 500,000 a year for adult individuals and corporations with supporting documentation. Payments and transfers in excess of this amount must be referred to the BPNG. For amounts exceeding the equivalent of K 50,000 a year, a certificate of tax payment is required. Yes. Yes. Yes. There are no restrictions on dividend and interest payments provided companies submit financial statements and tax clearance certificates. Payments for the servicing of foreign debt require approval from the BPNG or an AD. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA 731 Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Credit card use abroad Credits may be used only for travel and accommodation expenses. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be converted into domestic currency upon receipt. Restrictions on use of funds Approval is required for use of foreign currency proceeds other than those sold to an AD in Papua New Guinea. Controls on capital transactions No controls apply to the terms of external borrowing. However, borrowers must comply with gearing ratios. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Although there are no controls on inward portfolio investment, large amounts must be re- ported to the BPNG. ADs may approve outward investments by resident individuals and corporations up to the equivalent of K 500,000 a year; investments in excess of this limit require the approval of the BPNG. Income from these investments must be repatriated to Papua New Guinea as soon as it is received. Prior clearance from the tax authorities is re- quired for these transactions if the amount exceeds K 50,000 in any calendar year. The transfer of a Papua New Guinea security to a foreign resident requires prior BPNG approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents Approval is required to repatriate principal and earnings from abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 732 PAPUA NEW GUINEA Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Yes. Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Approval is required to repatriate principal and earnings from abroad. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require approval. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Approval is required to repatriate principal and earnings from abroad. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Approval is required to remit proceeds abroad or to repatriate capital from abroad. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require approval. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Approval is required to repatriate principal and earnings from abroad. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Derivatives must be based on a real underlying transaction and are subject to exchange control rules. Purchase locally by nonresidents Approval is required for payments overseas. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Approval is required for payments overseas. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Approval is required for payments overseas. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit operations. Commercial credits Short-term credits with less than a one-month maturity are not actively regulated. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Permission is required for these credits; however, ADs may approve amounts up to the equivalent of K 5 million from offshore sources and lend to residents for businesses not involved in the forestry sector (logging) or the mineral and gas sectors, provided that the term is for a minimum of one year and that interest rates and fees do not exceed the levels acceptable to the BPNG. Repayment of the principal is subject to a six-month moratorium, commencing on the date of disbursements. A maximum debt-to-equity ratio of 5:1 applies to borrowing by companies other than those in the forestry, mining, petroleum, and gas sectors. In the case of a business involved in resource exploration activities, inward invest- ment is considered non-interest bearing equity or loan funds (including preferred shares) until exploration reaches commercial development stage, at which time any excess above the 5:1 equity-to-debt ratio must be converted into an interest-bearing loan. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Approval is required. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities PAPUA NEW GUINEA 733 Approval is required to repatriate capital. The transfer of proceeds abroad requires BPNG approval. Approval is required. Repatriation of funds from abroad requires approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. These transactions are subject to BPNG approval. Securities denominated in foreign exchange may not be issued locally. Approval is required. Approval is required for the repatriation of capital. Foreign currency exposure limits against capital are 15% of a bank's total capital in all currencies and 10% of a single currency. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment por tfo l io held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Changes During 2003 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 23, 1994. Currency The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan guarani. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Private The exchange rate of the guarani is determined by supply and demand. The Central Bank of Paraguay (CBP) intervenes in the foreign exchange market to smooth undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. No. No. Commercial banks are permitted to enter into forward transactions with respect to trade transactions and on terms that may be negotiated freely with customers. The short or long forward position may not exceed 5% of the actual net worth of each institution. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.r. Paraguay is a member of LAI A and MERCOSUR. Payments between Paraguay and the other LAIA countries are made through accounts maintained with the CBP and other central banks that participate in the multilateral clearing arrangements of the LAIA. Clearing takes place every four months. The CBP administers laws and regulations pertaining to monetary policy. The CBP supervises, through the Superintendency of Banks, foreign exchange transactions carried out by banks and exchange bureaus. The CBP regulates open foreign exchange positions. In exceptional circumstances, the CBP may introduce controls on current and capital transactions. Yes. Yes. Yes. The CBP does not monitor private external debt. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Banks and exchange bureaus must no t ify the Superintendency of Banks at least two days prior to importing or exporting foreign currency. 734 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 735 On exports Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Yes. Banks and exchange bureaus must notify the Superintendency of Banks at least two days prior to importing or exporting foreign currency. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. Paraguay, as a member of MERCOSUR, applies its GET, which is composed of 11 rates ranging up to 20%. Paraguay also has over 1,500 exemptions to the GET, many of which are to be phased out by 2010. Many of these are for computer goods (1,153 items); tele- communications products (453 items); and processed foods, textiles, clothing, and shoes. Imports of diesel fuel and some military equipment and supplies are effected by state agencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 736 PARAGUAY Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Exports of logs and unprocessed forest products, raw hides, and wild animals are prohib- ited. In addition, certain exports require prior authorization from the appropriate agency. No other exports are restricted; however, technical standards are imposed by the National Institute of Technology and Standardization, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, depending on the product exported. Exports of sugar to the United States are subject to quotas. Quotas also apply on exports of meat and edible oils to Chile, under the Economic Complementary Agreement between MERCOSUR and Chile. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Financial enterprises require prior authorization from the CBP to transfer earnings. All transfers of earnings from financial investments are subject to a 5% income tax. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Effective November 20, 2003, in accordance with anti-money laundering legislation, financial entities are required to report all suspicious transactions. Maintenance of accounts abroad Accounts maintained abroad are subject to a legal limit of 20% of a bank's net worth. This limit may be extended to up to 70% of a bank's net worth in the case of Tier I banks. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These credits may not exceed 5% of a bank's net worth. Subject to approval of a guarantee by the Superintendency of Banks, this limit may be increased up to a maximum of 20%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D i f fe ren t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks PARAGUAY 737 Yes. Yes. Reserves on foreign exchange deposits should be maintained in foreign currency. The re- serve requirements for maturities of up to 360 days are 26.5% for foreign currency deposits and 15% for domestic currency deposits. These investments are subject to solvency and capital requirements. In banks by nonresidents Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits The maximum da i ly long and short foreign exchange positions for financial entities is 4% of risk-weighted assets, excluding treasury bonds denominated in foreign exchange and contingent claims at the end of the previous month. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2003 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions November 20. In accordance with anti-money laundering legislation, financial entities were required to report all suspicious transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position as of February 29, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Peru is the Peruvian nuevo sol. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements The exchange rate of the nuevo sol is determined by supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. However, the Central Reserve Bank of Peru (CRBP) may intervene in the foreign exchange market at its discretion to moderate undue fluctuations in the exchange rate; intervention may be effected through bonds indexed on the exchange rate. Exchange rates of currencies other than the dollar are determined against their cross-rate relationships with the dollar. On the basis of actual developments in the foreign exchange market, the exchange regime of Peru was reclassified, effective January 1, 2003, to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. No. No. Yes. The CRBP issues bonds indexed on the exchange rate and denominated in local currency as an instrument to cover forward sales of dollars. The use of this instrument is limited to cases of unusual volatility in the spot exchange rate. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. A bilateral payment arrangement exists between the CRBP and the Central Bank of Malaysia. However, no transactions have been conducted under the arrangement since 1998. Payments between Peru and the other LAIA countries may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the CRBP and the other central banks concerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control By law, there are no restrictions on exchange transactions, including holding, using, purchasing, or selling of foreign exchange. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Small amounts of outstanding arrears are owed primarily for unguaranteed suppliers' credits, most of which are under negotiation with the government of Peru. 738 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 739 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Imports may be prohibited for social, health, or security reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs Effective February 26, 2004, the basic tariff rates are zero, 4%, 7%, 12%, and 20% (previ- ously, zero, 4%, 7%, and 20%) with a weighted average of 10%. A temporary surcharge of 5% applies to some agricultural, agribusiness, and textile products. Inputs and intermediate goods imported under the Temporary Admission Regime are exempt from import taxes. A reference pricing system is in effect to protect local producers of corn, milk products, rice, and sugar. Effective December 3, 2003, tariffs on certain capital imports were reduced to 4% from 7% and 12%. In addition, the temporary 5% surcharge on certain other capital goods was extended to December 31, 2004. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 740 PERU Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending by resident financial institutions to nonresident financial institutions, individuals, or enterprises is subject to prudential limits. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements As a measure of monetary control, there is a difference between the treatment of deposit accounts in domestic currency and deposit accounts in foreign currency, but there is no discrimination between residents and nonresidents. Liabilities in domestic and foreign cur- rencies are subject to a minimum reserve requirement of 6%, and the latter are subject to an additional reserve requirement of 20%. The CRBP remunerates that part of the reserve requirement that exceeds the obligatory minimal reserve requirement in foreign currency with the three-month LIBOR rate minus 0.125%. Liquid asset requirements As a prudential measure, a liquid asset requirement as a percentage of short-term liabilities (20% in foreign currency and 8% in domestic currency) is applied. Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities There is a prudential limit of 100% of actual net worth over the long foreign exchange posi- tion and a limit of 2.5% of actual net worth over the short foreign exchange position of financial institutions. On October 16, 2003, this limit was increased to 5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 741 Provisions specific to institutional investors The securities market in Peru is open to foreign investors. No legal restrictions exist on the purchase or sale of domestic securities by nonresidents or on the purchase or sale of foreign securities by residents. Revenues may be repatriated without restrictions. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Pension funds may invest up to 20% of their portfolio in foreign securities issued by gov- ernments and financial and nonfmancial institutions abroad. The CRBP sets an operational limit of 9%. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Pension funds may invest up to 20% of their portfolio in foreign securities issued by gov- ernments and financial and nonfmancial institutions abroad; however, the CRBP sets an operational limit of 9%. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Exchange arrangement Imports and import payments Capital transactions Changes During 2003 January 1. The exchange regime of Peru was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category independently floating. December 3. Tariffs on certain capital imports were reduced to 4% from 7% and 12%. In addition, the temporary 5% surcharge on certain other capital goods was extended to December 31,2004. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions October 16. The limit on the overall short position in foreign currency was increased to 5% from 2.5% of net worth. Imports and import payments February 26. The basic tariff rates were charged to zero, 4%, 7%, 12%, and 20% from zero, 4%, 7%, and 20%. Changes During 2004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position as of February 29, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 8, 1995. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine peso. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange rates are determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. However, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) acts to limit sharp fluctuations in the exchange rate and intervenes when necessary to maintain orderly conditions in the ex- change market. Commercial banks trade in foreign exchange through the Philippine Deal- ing System (PDS), an electronic screen-based network. The PDS allows trading between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. daily between Bankers Association of the Philippines member banks and the BSP. The system allows participants to electronically share information and transact business. The exchange rate of the peso vis-a-vis the dollar at the beginning of the trading day represents the weighted average of all transactions in the PDS during the pre- ceding day. The amount of foreign exchange that may be sold over the counter without documentation and prior BSP approval is the equivalent of US$5,000. No. No. All forward purchases, contracts, and sales with no f u ll delivery of principal involving non- residents (including offshore banking units) require BSP approval. Only banks with an expanded derivatives license may enter into transactions covered by nondeliverable for- ward contracts. This policy is subject to quarterly review by the BSP. The BSP authorizes the rollover, without prior approval, of short-term deliverable forward contracts with nonresidents at every maturity during the course of the underlying long-term Philippine government securities, provided that (1) the underlying transactions for each short-term deliverable foreign exchange forward contract are BSP-registered foreign in- vestments in government securities; (2) the actual delivery or settlement of the forward contract coincides with the date of the repatriation of the BSP-registered investments; (3) the value of the forward contract does not exceed the foreign currency equivalent of the maturity value or net proceeds of the BSP-registered investments computed on the basis of the agreed forward exchange rate; (4) the repatriation and remittance out of the country of the BSP-registered investments comply with the documentary requirements under existing BSP rules; and (5) the bank concerned submits to the BSP a weekly report on forward con- tracts with nonresidents. Effective March 13, 2003, the maturity of all forward contracts —i.e., outright forward and forward swap contracts to cover long-term foreign currency requirements—may not exceed six months. Effective September 30, 2003, the maturity of foreign exchange forwards and swaps must not be longer than (1) the maturity of the underlying foreign exchange obligation; or (2) the approximate due date or settlement of the foreign exchange exposure. However, for foreign currency loans, the maturity of deliverable foreign exchange forwards must be coterminous with the maturity of the underlying obligation. Official cover of forward operations Yes. 742 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Prescription of currency requirements PHILIPPINES 743 Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There is no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments or incoming re- ceipts. However, only the following currencies are currently acceptable to the BSP as part of the country's international reserves: Australian dollars, Bahrain dinars, Brunei dollars, Canadian dollars, euros, Hong Kong dollars, Indonesian rupiahs, Kuwaiti dinars, Malaysian ringgits, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, Thai baht, U.A.E. dirhams, U.S. dollars, yen, and other such currencies that may be declared accept- able by the BSP. Controls on the use of domestic currency The use of domestic currency for international payments and receipts is not allowed, except for imports from and exports to ASEAN countries. For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents There are no restrictions, provided that the transaction does not involve the purchase of foreign exchange from the domestic banking system. Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative A bilateral payments agreement with Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) has been in force since July 11, 1998. The agreement was originally concluded for one year and has been extended indefinitely. Commercial banks accredited by the BSP are the authorized channels for transactions within the framework of the agreement, and settlements take place through the BSP or the BNM on a net basis over a two-month period. Regional arrangements The Philippines is a member of the ASEAN. Administration of control Foreign exchange regulations are administered by the BSP on the basis of policy decisions adopted by the Monetary Board of the BSP. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Small-scale miners are required to sell all of their production to the BSP. All forms or types of gold may be bought and sold without specific approval of the BSP. Effective February 26, 2004, producers selling gold to the BSP are paid in pesos on the basis of the average of live gold and silver prices quoted simultaneously between 8:00 a.m. and 8:30 a.m. by the London Bullion Market Association market-making members, excluding the highest and lowest quotes and rounding to the nearest US$0.05. Gold acquired in this way is deemed to be part of the official international reserves. The BSP may sell gold dust, pellets, bars, and sheets to local jewelry manufacturers and other industrial users upon application, or to banks only for resale to jewelry manufacturers and industrial users, at the BSP's gold- selling price plus a service fee to cover costs, including the costs of conversion and packaging. There are no restrictions on the importation of any form of gold except gold coin blanks and gold bullion lacking indication of the actual fineness of the gold content; the importa- tion of gold blanks requires prior BSP clearance, and the importation of such gold bullion is prohibited. All forms of gold may be exported without BSP approval except gold from small-scale mining, which is required to be sold to the BSP. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 744 PHILIPPINES Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Resident and nonresident travelers must obtain prior authorization from the BSP to take out more than PI0,000 in domestic banknotes and coins or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange denominated in pesos. A written declaration of the amount, source, and purpose of the foreign currency exported is required to be submitted to the Bureau of Customs at the exit point only if the amount exceeds US$10,000 or its equivalent. Travelers may bring in freely up to PI0,000 in domestic banknotes and coins, checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange denominated in pesos. Imports exceeding this amount require prior authorization from the BSP. A written declaration of the amount, source, and purpose of the foreign currency imported is required to be submitted to the Bureau of Customs at the exit point only if the amount exceeds US$10,000 or its equivalent. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident peso deposit accounts are allowed, provided they are funded by inward remit- tances of foreign currency or by peso income from nonresidents' properties located in the Philippines, whether real or personal, or proceeds from the conversion thereof. Balances are convertible only if these pertain to (1) deposits by tourists or "balikbayans" up to the amount of the peso conversion proceeds of foreign currency brought in and sold to the domestic banking system; and (2) peso proceeds of the divestment of BSP-registered inward foreign investments and accumulated earnings thereon. Nonresident bank peso ac- counts may be registered with the BSP only if they are in the form of time deposits with a minimum maturity of 90 days. The BSP registration document, which is issued directly by the BSP for such investments, will be canceled if the investments are terminated before the end of the 90-day period. Tourists or "balikbayans" may reconvert at airports or other ports of exit unspent pesos of up to a maximum of US$200 or an equivalent amount in any other foreign currency without having to show proof of previous sale of foreign exchange to the banking system. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 745 Financing requirements for imports No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Generally, commercial banks may sell foreign exchange for import payments in any mode of payment upon presentation of original shipping documents (commercial invoices or bills of lading) except for imports under documents against acceptance (DA) and open account (OA) arrangements, which require proof that the imports have been reported to the BSP. Effective February 16, 2004, the requirement for BSP registration of DA and OA imports was replaced by a reporting requirement to the BSP. LCs must be opened on or before the date of shipment, with a validity period of up to one year. Only one LC may be opened for each import transaction; amendments to such an arrangement need not be referred to the BSP for prior approval except when the amend- ment extends the total validity of the LC beyond one year. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Generally, all merchandise imports are allowed without a license, and without restrictions, unless otherwise prohibited by laws, rules, or regulations. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Yes. The importation of certain products is regulated or prohibited for reasons of public health and safety, environmental considerations, national security, international commitments, and development and rationalization of local industries. Commodity imports are classified into three categories: freely importable, regulated, and prohibited. To import regulated products, a clearance or permit is required from the appro- priate government regulatory agency. Licenses with quotas Quantitative restrictions are imposed on the imports of rice. Import taxes and/or tariffs The tariff structure clusters around five tariff rates: 1%, 3%, 7%, 10%, and 15%. The num- ber of tariff lines dutiable at these rates accounts for over four-fifths of the total tariff lines. The Philippines is a party to the Common Effective Preferential Tariff Scheme for the ASEAN Free Trade Area. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. All exports must be covered by an export declaration, which may be obtained from the Bureau of Customs or the Department of Trade and Industry. A few export items are regulated for reasons of health, security, national interest, or envi- ronmental protection; such exports require prior clearance from the appropriate government regulatory agency. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments The amount of foreign exchange a bank may sell to a resident for any nontrade purpose, without documentation, is US$5,000 or its equivalent for each application. For sales in excess of this amount, a resident must submit a notarized application with the prescribed supporting documents. This rule also applies to sales to residents by bank-affiliated foreign exchange trading corporations. Investment-related payments, i.e., capital repatriation and remittance of profits, may be serviced using foreign exchange purchased from the domestic banking system only if they pertain to BSP-registered foreign investments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 746 PHILIPPINES Prior approval Quantitative limits Prior approval is not required for payments pertaining to BSP-registered foreign investments. The Monetary Board of the BSP sets the ceiling for approvals of commercial medium- and long-term foreign loans to the public sector, as well as those to the private sector that are publicly guaranteed or intended to be serviced with foreign exchange purchased from the domestic banking system. The Monetary Board also sets a limit on the stock of short-term public sector debt. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Only foreign loans and foreign investments registered with the BSP can be serviced using foreign exchange purchased from the domestic banking system (i.e., authorized agent banks and bank-affiliated foreign exchange trading corporations). Pursuant to the Philippines Constitution, all public and private sector publicly guaranteed obligations from foreign creditors, including offshore banking units (OBUs) and foreign currency deposit units (FCDUs), shall be referred to the BSP for prior approval and subse- quent registration. Other private sector loans from foreign creditors and other financing schemes or arrangements require prior approval and/or registration by the BSP if they are covered by any guarantee from local banks or are intended to be serviced using foreign exchange purchased from the domestic banking system. Foreign currency borrowings from FCDUs with a maturity exceeding one year are governed by the same guidelines. In the case of short-term FCDU loans, including those obtained by the private sector, no prior BSP approval is required, provided that the borrower or project qualifies for foreign financ- ing. These short-term FCDU loans must, however, be reported by the creditor banks to the BSP to be eligible for servicing with foreign exchange purchased from the domestic bank- ing system. Effective February 24, 2003, OBUs may hold peso-denominated assets (i.e., bonds or other certificates of indebtedness, shares of stocks, and other properties) arising from restructur- ing or other repayment schemes of outstanding loans, subject to the terms and conditions of the approval of such schemes. Bonds or other certificates of indebtedness issued by a third party, as well as shares of stocks and other properties acquired as a result of these schemes, must be booked at their appraised value or the loan balance, whichever is lower. Shares of stocks and other properties acquired as a result of these schemes must be sold or disposed of within a period of five years from the acquisition date. Booking of bonds, other certifi- cates of indebtedness, and shares of stock acquired must be adjusted in cases of decline in their market value, while other properties must be subject to regular provisioning within three years of the contract date. Foreign investors must hold peso time deposits for a minimum of 90 days and register with the BSP to purchase foreign exchange from the domestic banking system for capital repa- triation or outward remittance of earnings. There is no minimum holding period for all other types of eligible investments. However, BSP registration of investments is required to purchase foreign exchange from the domestic banking system for the servicing of capital repatriation or outward remittance of earnings. Registration with the BSP or a designated custodian bank is not mandatory. Registration is necessary only if the source of the foreign exchange needed for capital repatriation and remittance of dividends, profits, and earnings that accrue thereon will be purchased from the domestic banking system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents PHILIPPINES 747 The shares or securities issued or sold by nonresidents are subject to the same Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approval and registration requirements imposed on those issued by local companies. Payment for such sale or issue should, however, not involve the purchase of foreign exchange from the domestic banking system. Investments abroad by residents in excess of US$6 million for each investor each year re- quire prior BSP approval and registration if the foreign exchange for such investments will be purchased from the domestic banking system. For smaller amounts, only supporting documents to identify the nature and place of the investments are required to be submitted to the foreign exchange selling bank. Resident companies must comply with the disclosure requirements of the SEC. Registration with the BSP is needed if the capital repatriation and remittance of profits and dividends on such shares and securities will be serviced with foreign exchange purchased from the domestic banking system. Registration with the BSP of investments in peso-denominated bonds or other debt securi- ties is necessary only if the foreign exchange needed for capital repatriation and remittance of dividends, profits, and earnings that accrue thereon will be purchased from the domestic banking system. The shares and securities are subject to the same SEC approval and registration requirements imposed on those issued by local companies. Payment for such sale or issue should, however, not involve the purchase of foreign exchange from the domestic banking system. These transactions are allowed only after the proper approval or license to do business in the country is secured from the appropriate government agency, provided that payment for the sale or issue does not involve the purchase of foreign exchange from the domestic banking system. Investments involving amounts above the equivalent of US$6 million for each investor each year funded by foreign exchange purchased from the domestic banking system require prior approval and registration with the BSP. Pursuant to the Philippine Constitution, all public and private sector publicly guaranteed borrowing from foreign creditors, including from OBUs and FCDUs, shall be referred to the BSP for prior approval and subsequent registration. Private sector bond or note issues offshore require prior approval and/or registration by the BSP if they are covered by any guarantee from local banks or are intended to be serviced using foreign exchange purchased from the domestic banking system. If peso-denominated, these instruments are considered foreign investments and are subject to applicable rules. The shares and securities are subject to the same SEC approval and registration requirements imposed on those issued by local companies. However, payment for such sale or issue should not involve the purchase of foreign exchange from the domestic banking system. Yes. Yes. The shares and securities are subject to the same SEC approval and registration require- ments imposed on those sold or issued by local companies. Payment for such sale or issue must not involve the purchase of foreign exchange from the domestic banking system. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 748 PHILIPPINES Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Banks, nonbanks with quasi-banking functions, and their subsidiaries and affiliates duly authorized by the BSP may engage in financial derivatives activities with their customers when either party is hedging eligible actual foreign exchange obligations or existing foreign exchange exposures. Foreign exchange regulations and documentary requirements for derivatives apply. Derivatives involving forward purchases of foreign exchange by nonresidents are not al- lowed, except for BSP-registered foreign investments under certain conditions. Swap contracts involving the sale of foreign exchange by nonresidents to banks as a first leg require BSP approval. The purchase of foreign exchange from local banks for settlement of derivatives is not permitted. The purchase of foreign exchange from local banks for settlement of derivatives is not permitted. Prior BSP approval and registration are required for foreign loans by residents when the loans are guaranteed by the public sector or local banks. Those that are not guaranteed but are to be serviced with foreign exchange purchased from the domestic banking system generally require prior BSP approval and subsequent registration. Regardless of maturity, if these credits are to be serviced with the borrower's own foreign exchange resources or from outside the banking system, they need not be approved or reg- istered with the BSP unless guaranteed by government financial institutions or banks. The status of private sector loans, and the transactions concerned, must be reported to the BSP for statistical purposes. Loans by nonresidents from expanded foreign currency deposit units (EFCDUs), irrespec- tive of maturity, no longer require BSP approval, provided that (1) the loan is serviced us- ing foreign exchange purchased outside the domestic banking system; and (2) all applicable banking rules and regulations are complied with, including the single borrower's limit, which is defined to include lending and guarantees issued to companies, their subsidiaries, affiliates, and major stockholders all over the world. By residents to nonresidents These transactions are not controlled if they do not involve foreign exchange purchased from the domestic banking system. To residents from nonresidents The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup fac i l i t ies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Guarantees for public sector accounts and those issued by government-owned and -controlled corporations in favor of nonresidents as well as other guarantees or similar ar- rangements that may give rise to actual foreign obligations require prior BSP approval. On the other hand, guarantees issued by local banks and financial institutions, including government financial institutions, that cover foreign obligations other than foreign loans must be registered to be eligible for servicing using foreign exchange purchased from the domestic banking system. Guarantees issued by foreign banks and financial institutions with regard to foreign loans that require prior BSP approval also require prior BSP approval to allow servicing with banking system resources of any obligation arising from the guarantees. On the other hand, guarantees issued by foreign banks and financial institutions and other foreign entities to secure peso loans or FCDU loans authorized under existing policy, as well as foreign obligations (which do not have the nature of a foreign loan) of local firms, must be registered with the BSP to allow servicing of any obligation arising from the guarantees using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system. Prior BSP approval and registration are required if the foreign exchange for the investment will be purchased from the domestic banking system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 749 Inward direct investment Inward investments need not be registered with the BSP if the capital repatriation or dividend or profit remittances will not involve the purchase of foreign exchange from the domestic banking system. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases are subject to constitutional and legal limits. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents These sales are allowed, subject to legal and constitutional limits. If their proceeds are to be repatriated abroad using foreign exchange purchased from the domestic banking system, the transaction must be registered with the BSP as a foreign investment. Loans are permitted, provided that foreign exchange is not purchased from the domestic banking system. To residents from nonresidents Loans are permitted, provided that the transaction is not serviced with foreign exchange purchased from the banking system. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents No private land may be transferred or conveyed except to individuals, corporations, or associations qualified to acquire or hold land in the public domain. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Transfers are subject to appropriate supporting documents. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Banks with foreign exchange trading corporations as subsidiaries or affiliates must make available on a daily basis the names of counterparties and other details of purchases and sales of foreign exchange. Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks' short-term interbank loans are not subject to prior BSP approval; however, medium- and long-term loans for relending require prior BSP approval and registration. Banks may grant commercial credit to nonresidents under any of the following modes of payment without prior BSP approval: (1) LCs, (2) direct payments or cash against payment, (3) DAs, (4) OAs, (5) intercompany open account offsets, (6) consignments, and (7) export advances. Commercial banks, which are authorized to operate under the expanded foreign currency deposit system, may grant foreign currency loans to nonresidents, irrespective of maturity, without prior approval by the BSP, provided that the loan is serviced using for- eign exchange purchased from outside the domestic banking system, and all applicable banking rules and regulations are complied with, including all limits on lending to a single borrower, which are defined to include loans and guarantees issued to companies and their subsidiaries, affiliates, and major stockholders all over the world. To curb undue speculation in the foreign exchange market and to further reinforce the pro- vision that peso deposits should be funded from inward foreign exchange remittances, banks are prohibited from extending peso loans to nonresidents. In the case of short-term FCDU loans, including those obtained by the private sector, no prior BSP approval is required, provided that the borrower or project qualifies for foreign financing. These short-term FCDU loans must, however, be reported by the creditor banks to the BSP to be eligible for servicing with foreign exchange purchased from the domestic banking system. Medium- and long-term FCDU loans are subject to prior approval and registration with the BSP to be eligible for servicing with foreign exchange purchased from the domestic bank ing system. Effective January 21, 2003, FCDU and EFCDU funds of universal and commercial banks may lend to their regular banking un it (RBU) to fund the latter's on-balance sheet foreign exchange trade transactions, provided that the FCDU or EFCDU has fu l ly complied with the requirement of 100% asset cover and 30% liquidity cover on FCDU or EFCDU liabili- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 750 PHILIPPINES ties. FCDU and EFCDU lending to the RBU must be at prevailing market interest rates and capped at the lower of total outstanding balance on the RBU's on-balance sheet foreign currency trade assets or at 30% of the level of FCDU or EFCDU deposit liabilities, com- puted at the average daily balance (using two-month rolling data) as of the second week prior to the reference week; the maturity of such loans must be less than one year. Effective February 10, 2004, FCDU and EFCDU loans may be transferred to their RBU without prior BSP approval, subject to conditions that apply to such transfers. The condi- tions include the following: (1) the FCDU or EFCDU loan is current, performing, and eli- gible to be serviced by the domestic banking system; (2) actual settlement is in foreign currency; (3) prior approval of the bank's board of directors or country head and written consent of the borrower have been obtained; and (4) the loan is properly documented. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange EFCDUs of commercial banks may invest in foreign currency-denominated securities. An FCDU of a thr ift bank may invest only in foreign currency-denominated debt instruments that are of short-term maturity and readily marketable. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Effective March 21, 2003, the liquidity reserve requirement for peso demand, savings, and time deposits and deposit-substitute liabilities of universal and commercial banks was raised to 8% from 7%. Effective February 6, 2004, the Monetary Board further raised the liquidity reserve requirement for commercial and universal banks to 10%. The regular re- serve requirement was maintained at 9%. As a result, the reserve requirement applied to peso deposits and deposit-substitute liabilities of universal and commercial banks increased to 19% on February 6, 2004 (previously, 17%). A reserve requirement is not applied to deposit accounts in foreign exchange. The required liquidity reserves may be maintained in the form of short-term government securities that bear market-level yields and are pur- chased directly from the BSP. Depository banks with FCDUs and EFCDUs must maintain at all times 100% asset cover for their foreign currency liabilities. At least 30% of the cover requirement for these liabili- ties must be in the form of liquid assets. Effective April 11, 2003, the investment of a bank subsidiary in the equity of a subsidiary located abroad is subject to prior BSP approval provided that (1) the bank subsidiary meets certain prequalification and documentary requirements; and (2) the applicant parent sub- sidiary complies with the licensing requirements of the host country and secures the neces- sary license to operate. The proposed subsidiary may also invest in another subsidiary with prior BSP approval and is subject to the applicable BSP reporting, supervision, and exami- nation requirements. Any outward investment representing initial capital and other outlays is subject to BSP regulations. At least 50% of the yearly net profits of the proposed subsidi- ary must be declared and paid as cash dividends to the parent subsidiary. Any additional fund ing or advances of the parent bank in the Philippines to its subsidiaries abroad or the subsidiary requires prior BSP approval. Foreign ownership of domestic banks is allowed up to 100%. Foreign juridical and natural persons may own 40%. However, banks that are majority foreign owned may not account for more than 30% of the total reserves of the banking system. For FCDUs of commercial banks and expanded commercial banks, at least 70% of the cover must be maintained in the same currency as the liability and up to 30% may be de- nominated in other acceptable foreign currencies. FCDUs of th r i ft banks must maintain foreign currency cover in the same currency as that of the corresponding foreign currency deposit liability. Effective March 13, 2003, the l im it on a bank's long (overbought) foreign exchange position is 2.5% of its unimpaired capital or the equivalent of US$5 million, whichever is smaller (previously, 5% or the equivalent of US$10 million). No limit applies on short (oversold) foreign exchange positions. Any excess above the overbought limit must be settled daily. The BSP imposes sanctions for the violation of open-position limits. No differential treatment is ascribed to resident and nonresident deposit accounts with respect to liquid asset requirements, as all depository banks within the foreign currency deposit ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 751 system are required to maintain at all times a 100% asset cover for their foreign currency liabilities, of which 30% must be liquid. On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Exchange arrangement Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Except as may be authorized by the Monetary Board, total equity investments in and/or loans to any single enterprise abroad by an investment house with quasi-banking functions may not at any time exceed 15% of its net worth. Outward investments by residents in amounts exceeding US$6 million or the equivalent require prior approval and registration by the BSP. For amounts below that figure, the funds to be invested may be purchased from authorized agent banks, subject to BSP documentary requirements. As a general rule, no securities may be sold or offered for sale to the public within the country unless such securities have been registered and are permitted to be sold by the SEC. A foreign corporation whose securities are listed and traded on a local stock exchange must designate a transfer agent and registrar in the Philippines. As a general rule, a broker, dealer, or salesperson must register with the SEC to do business in the country. Changes During 2003 March 13. All forward contracts, i.e., outright forward and forward swap contracts to cover long-term foreign exchange requirements, were not allowed to exceed six months. September 30. The maturity of foreign exchange forward and swap contracts was not al- lowed to be longer than (1) the maturity of the underlying foreign exchange obligation; or (2) the approximate due date or settlement of the foreign exchange exposure. February 24. OBUs were allowed to hold peso-denominated assets (i.e., bonds or other certificates of indebtedness, shares of stocks, and other properties) arising from restructur- ing or other repayment schemes of outstanding loans, subject to the terms and conditions of the approval of such schemes. Bonds or other certificates of indebtedness issued by a third party, as well as shares of stocks and other properties acquired as a result of these schemes, must be booked at their appraised value or the loan balance, whichever is lower. Shares of stocks and other properties acquired as a result of these schemes must be sold or disposed of within a period of five years from the acquisition date. Booking of bonds, other certifi- cates of indebtedness, and shares of stock acquired must be adjusted in cases of decline in their market value, while other properties must be subject to regular provisioning within three years of the contract date. January 21. FCDU and EFCDU funds of universal and commercial banks were allowed to lend to their RBU to fund the latter's on-balance sheet foreign exchange trade transactions only after they have fu l ly complied with the requirement of 100% asset cover and 30% liquidity cover on FCDU or EFCDU liabilities. FCDU and EFCDU loans to the RBU must be at prevailing market interest rates and capped at the lower of total outstanding balance on the RBU's on-balance sheet foreign currency trade assets or 30% of the level of FCDU or EFCDU deposit liabilities, computed at the average daily balance (using two-month rolling data) as of the second week prior to the reference week; the maturity of such loans must be less than one year. March 13. The limit on a bank's long (overbought) foreign exchange position was set at 2.5% of its unimpaired capital or the equivalent of US$5 million, whichever is smaller (previously, 5% or the equivalent of US$10 m i l l ion). March 21. The liquidity reserve requirement for universal and commercial banks was in- creased to 8% from 7%. April 11. The investment of a bank subsidiary in the equity of a subsidiary located abroad was made subject to prior BSP approval provided that (1) the bank subsidiary met certain prequalification and documentary requirements; and (2) the applicant parent subsidiary complied with the licensing requirements of the host country and secured the necessary ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 752 PHILIPPINES license to operate. The proposed subsidiary was also permitted to invest in another subsidi- ary with prior BSP approval and was made subject to BSP reporting, supervision, and ex- amination requirements. Any outward investment representing initial capital and other out- lays was made subject to existing BSP regulations. At least 50% of the yearly net profits of the proposed subsidiary must be declared and paid as cash dividends to the parent subsidi- ary. Any additional fund ing or advances of the parent bank in the Philippines to its subsidi- aries abroad or the subsidiary was made, subject to prior BSP approval. Changes During 2004 Arrangements for payments and receipts February 26. The BSP began buying gold from small-scale miners in pesos on the basis of the average of live gold and silver prices quoted simultaneously between 8:00 a.m. and 8:30 a.m. by the London Bullion Market Association market-making members, excluding the highest and lowest quotes and rounding to the nearest US$0.05. Imports and import payments February 16. The BSP registration requirements for DA and OA imports were replaced by a reporting requirement to the BSP. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions February 6. The liquidity reserve requirement for commercial and universal banks was raised to 10% from 8%. As a result, the reserve requirement applied to peso deposits and deposit-substitute liabilities of universal and commercial banks increased to 19% from 17%. ' February 10. FCDU and EFCDU loans were allowed to be transferred to their RBU with- out prior BSP approval, subject to conditions that apply to such transfers. The conditions include the following: (1) the FCDU or EFCDU loan is current, performing, and eligible to be serviced by the domestic banking system; (2) actual settlement is in foreign currency; (3) prior approval of the bank's board of directors or country head and written consent of the borrower were obtained; and (4) the transaction was properly documented. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Poland is the Polish zloty. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy The exchange rate of the zloty is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the for- eign exchange market, and the zloty is traded freely against all currencies. No. No. Forward exchange market A liquid swap market exists. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Settlements in foreign currency among residents in Poland require a foreign exchange per- mit, except for those that are (1) not related to the conduct of business activities between natural persons; (2) related to sales of goods or property rights abroad; or (3) conducted between employers and employees regarding business trips or work abroad. There are agreements with Iraq, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, and Turkey. Out- standing balances are being settled in accordance with the terms of the agreements. Poland is a member of the CEFTA. There are inoperative agreements with members of the former CMEA. The authority to make basic changes in the Foreign Exchange Law rests with parliament. Regulations are promulgated by the MOF, in cooperation with the president of the National Bank of Poland (NBP). General foreign exchange permits are granted by the NBP in the form of regulations. Decisions concerning individual foreign exchange permits are subject to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. The NBP exercises controls over issuance of foreign exchange permits, exchange offices activities, and submission by commercial banks to the NBP of their banking statistics, for the purpose of compiling balance-of- payments data and the external asset and liabilities position of the country. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, Poland imposed and maintained a ban on trade with Iraq and on exports of certain products to Libya. The Polish government bans, in line with relevant UN Security Council resolutions, exports of arms and military equip- ment to the following countries: Angola (for UNITA forces), Haiti, Iraq, Liberia, Libya, Rwanda, and Somalia. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Yes. No. 753 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 754 POLAND Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Resident individuals may hold gold in any form; trading in gold, other than in jewelry form, is subject to permission from the NBP. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad The exportation of foreign gold coins requires a permit, except for exports by nonresidents (who had previously imported them into the country) and imports by residents for conduct- ing business in precious metals. However, the exportation of gold coins issued by the NBP is permitted. Coins made from precious metals are not legal tender in Poland. The exportation of foreign or domestic banknotes with a total value exceeding the equiva- lent of €10,000 requires permission, with the fo l low ing exceptions: (1) exportation by non- residents of banknotes previously imported into the country or banknotes purchased or exchanged at a bank for banknotes previously imported into the country; (2) exportation by residents and nonresidents of banknotes withdrawn from a bank account or purchased from a bank for banknotes in a bank account; and (3) exportation by nonresidents of traveler's checks signed by them. Residents and nonresidents may export up to the equivalent of €5,000 in any currency without documentary proof of origin. There are no limitations on nonresident exports of foreign securities or traveler's checks. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange within two months of returning to Poland. Polish nationals may take abroad up to €5,000 or its equ iva lent in foreign currencies, checks, and traveler's checks. Documentary proof of origin is necessary for amounts ex- ceeding this limit. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange within two months of return- ing to Poland. For off ic ial and business travel, allowances are based on separate regulations on business travel and on collective wage agreements. Imports of domestic or foreign banknotes exceeding the equivalent of €10,000 must be reported to the customs administration authorities. Residents and nonresidents may import up to the equivalent of €10,000 in any currency without notification to the customs authorities. There are no limitations on nonresident exports of foreign securities or traveler's checks. Residents must repatriate foreign ex- change within two months of returning to Poland. Residents must repatriate foreign exchange and domestic means of payment within two months after returning to Poland. Resident Accounts Yes. Yes. Residents (individuals and enterprises) are allowed to maintain accounts in the member countries of the EU, the EEA, and the OECD without permission. Accounts in other coun- tries may be maintained in connection with the economic activity conducted in these coun- tries or in connection with management of portfolio investments by residents in these coun- tries. Activity in these accounts must be reported quarterly to the NBP. Approval required Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad The regulations for foreign exchange accounts held abroad also apply to these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 755 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. These accounts may or may not pay interest, depending on the agreement with the bank, and they may be credited with funds from any source that is in compliance with foreign exchange regulations. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted into foreign currency. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Licenses are not required for imports from the convertible currency area, with the exception of imports of radioactive materials and military equipment; specific substances that deplete the ozone layer; nutritive gelatin; used textile articles; articles for fairs; table or parlor games; alcoholic beverages other than beer; tobacco products; crude oil and oils obtained from bituminous minerals; gasoline and light oils; natural gas and other gaseous hydrocar- bons; coal; and goods for the industrial assembly of motor vehicles. Imports of specific ozone-depleting substances and goods are prohibited. Imports of petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous minerals originating from the Czech Republic or the Russian Federation are subject to quantitative quotas. All commercial imports, regardless of country of origin or provenance, are subject to an ad valorem import tariff. Import tariffs are based on the Harmonized System and the Combined Nomenclature of the EU, with six basic rates: zero on equipment for the disabled, mineral resources, textiles, and cattle hides; up to 3% on other raw materials; 6% to 9% on basic parts of semifinished and finished goods; 12% to 25% on industrial goods; 25% to 30% on agricultural products; 9% to 18% on textile products; and 30% on luxury goods. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the GSP. Also, imports from 45 developing countries, tropical products, and many goods that are of interest to developing countries enter Poland duty free. For the remaining goods imported from non-European developing countries whose per capita GDP is lower than Poland's, duties are reduced by 20% to 30% of the MFN rate. Duties and taxes on imports for export production are refunded. Imports of capital goods for new jo int ventures are exempt from customs duties. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Licenses are required for exports carried out within the framework of international agree- ments that stipulate bilateral settlements and for temporary exports of capital goods and transport equipment for leasing motor vehicles. Licenses are required for exports of radioactive materials and military equipment, as well as of goods subject to export quotas. Exports of specific species of live poultry and of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 756 POLAND With quotas Export taxes ozone-depleting goods are prohibited, as are exports to Serbia and Montenegro of petro- leum oils and oils obtained from bituminous minerals. Exports of waste and scrap of copper, nickel, aluminum, lead, zinc, and tin are subject to quota restrictions. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers When payments exceed €10,000, all current operations must be effected through domestic banks. Residents and nonresidents must document the payments or transfers to the bank if these exceed €10,000. Credit card use abroad Credit card use abroad is permitted, but the transactions must comply with regulations. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions All capital transactions with residents of the member countries of the EU, the EEA, and the OECD are free of controls. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase of Polish securities with a maturity of less than one year by nonresidents other than the residents of the EU, the EEA, and the OECD (residents of "third countries") is prohibited. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents A Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) permit is required for residents and non- residents to trade in securities. Purchase abroad by residents Residents are allowed to purchase securities with maturities exceeding one year issued by nonresidents from "third countries" with which Poland has concluded agreements on mu- tual promotion and protection of investment (BIT countries). Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents are permitted to issue or sell securities with maturities exceeding one year in BIT countries. Bonds or other debt securities Approval of the NBP is required with respect to transactions with non-BIT countries. On money market instruments The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits An NBP permit is required in cases for which the repayment date on more than one-half of the debt involving residents of BIT countries is less than one year. An NBP permit is required in cases for which the repayment date on more than one-half of the debt involving residents of BIT countries is less than one year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents POLAND 757 An NBP permit is required for guarantee transactions related to claims resulting from resi- dents of BIT countries. An NBP permit is required for direct investments, with the exception of the purchase of shares and interests in companies based in OECD countries and in BIT countries. The foreign exchange law does not impose controls on these transactions but contains sectoral restrictions. The transfer of invested capital (and profits from jo int ventures and from shares in Polish companies) is not restricted, and invested capital may be repatriated once outstanding obligations to creditors are discharged. An NBP permit is required when natural persons residing in Poland purchase real estate located in non-BIT countries if the purchase price is in excess of the equivalent of €50,000. An exchange permit is also required for the transfer abroad of the foreign currency used for the purchase of such real estate. Nonresidents may acquire real estate or other immovable property in Poland only with permission from the Ministry of the Interior, except when in the form of an inheritance. Under the Law on Acquisition of Real Estate by Foreigners, foreigners may also acquire real estate without a permit if (1) it is an apartment; (2) they have lived in Poland for at least five years after obtaining a permanent residence visa; (3) they have been married to a Polish citizen for at least two years (the purchased real estate must constitute a part of matrimonial community property); or (4) real estate is purchased by nonresident juridical persons for statutory purposes, and the size of the real estate does not exceed 4,000 square meters in urban areas. The Council of Ministers may issue a regulation defining other cases for which a permit is not required, provided that the size of acquired real estate does not exceed 4,000 square meters in urban and 10,000 square meters in rural areas. The Council of Ministers may also extend the area to be acquired without permit to 12,000 square meters in urban and 30,000 square meters in rural areas. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans There are no controls on fam i ly loans. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents NBP approval is required for gifts exceeding the equivalent of €10,000 to residents of non- BIT countries. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Banks are permitted to purchase securities abroad within the limits approved by the NBP. Reserve requirements The reserve requirement on foreign currency accounts differs from that on zloty accounts. Open foreign exchange position limits A bank's overall foreign exchange position is defined and regulated in accordance with the Basle Committee 1988 Capital Accord (as amended in 1995) and EU Directive No. 93/6/EC on Capital Adequacy of Investment Firms and Capital Institutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 758 POLAND Provisions specific to institutional investors In compliance with EU directives, an MOF permit is required to commence insurance busi- ness; an MOF permit is required for investments in the shares of insurance companies, allowing for 25%, 50%, and 75% control of votes at general shareholders' meetings; and prudential regulations establishing limits for the investment of insurance funds in the coun- try and abroad are provided by the statute on insurance operating activity. Open pension funds are allowed to invest not more than 5% of their assets abroad, and such investments may only be in OECD member countries or in countries with which Poland has entered into agreements on the promotion and protection of investments. Further, these investments may only be in (1) securities issued by companies listed on major stock ex- changes; (2) securities issued by treasuries or central banks; and (3) mutual fund certifi- cates, provided that they are redeemable on demand and issued by entities domiciled in one of the aforementioned countries. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents The limit for insurance business is 5% if denominated in foreign currency or 12% if de- nominated in euros, except for the risks situated abroad, to which technical provisions in the respective currency apply. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The limit for open pension funds is 5%. The regulations governing limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents apply. The limit for insurance business is 88%, and for open pension funds, 95%. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 12, 1988. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Portugal is the euro. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Portugal participates in the EMU with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Spain. The ECB reserves the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Yes. Operations in foreign exchange are permitted through the banking system. No. There are no exchange controls. Foreign trade policy is implemented by the Ministry of Economy, which is responsible for administering trade controls and for issuing import and export licenses, declarations, and certificates. Yes. In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, cer- tain restrictions are maintained on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions with respect to Iraq, Myanmar, certain individuals associated with the previous government of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe. In accordance with EU Regulation No. 147/2003, effective January 27, 2003, financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia are prohibited. Effective September 29, 2003, financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo are prohibited (EU Regulation No. 1727/2003). Restrictions also apply on transfers with respect to the Taliban and individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. Special caution is recommended in transactions with countries with coun- terparties located in countries or territories not cooperating in efforts to prevent money laundering. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) A customs declaration is required for amounts exceeding the equivalent of €12,500. 759 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 760 PORTUGAL Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The exportation or importation by residents or nonresidents of banknotes or coins and traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of €12,500 must be declared to customs. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions and EU regulations, sanctions are imposed on specific transactions involving diamonds (Liberia and Sierra Leone), arma- ments (Iraq; Liberia; Zimbabwe; the Taliban; and individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism), and oil (Iraq). Imports of certain products are subject to an import license and are allowed under specific conditions, or are prohibited for reasons of health, public order, or the prevention of com- mercial fraud. For agricultural products covered by the CAP, an import certificate may be required. A few industrial products, such as steel products and some textiles and clothing, are subject to EU import restrictions when they originate in certain third countries. A more extensive restricted list applying to China includes ceramics, footwear, porcelain, and some textiles. Products of dual use may require a certificate. Imports subject to quantitative restrictions require an import license. Generally, licenses are valid for six months for customs clearance purposes. For products under EU surveillance, the appropriate import documents, when required, are issued for statistical purposes and are granted automatically in four or five days. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 761 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes For agricultural products covered by the CAP, an export certificate may be required. Products of dual use may require a certificate. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents If the purchase is made locally through a public takeover bid, it is subject to a preliminary announcement to, as well as registration with, the Portuguese Stock Market Committee (CMVM). If the sale occurs in Portugal through a public offering, prior CMVM registration is re- quired. If the offerer is a nonresident with a head o f f ice in a non-EU country, the prior issue of a prospectus in Portugal or any other EU country is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents In addition to the provisions of Article 148 of the Securities Code—with the necessary adaptations —the following regulations apply: (1) When instruments are to be listed simultaneously on a stock exchange located or operat- ing in Portugal and on one located or operating in another European country, the provisions of Article 145 of the Securities Code need to be observed, mutatis mutandis. (2) In order for instruments to be listed in Portugal, a prospectus that has been approved by a competent authority of another EU member country needs to be submitted to the CMVM three months prior to the public offering in accordance with Article 147 of the Securities Code. The approval authority for the prospectus for a public offering that is to be made simultaneously in EU member countries for securities of the same class rests in the member country in which the issuer has its headquarters. If, however, the country within which the issuer resides does not have this authority, the issuer must select another member country that has this authority and notify the CMVM of its choice. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 762 PORTUGAL Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Purchases that are made locally through a public takeover bid must be reported to and reg- istered with the CMVM. The regulations governing sales or issue abroad by residents of shares or other securities also apply. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Abroad by banks The marketing of noncoordinated undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) must be authorized by the MOF. Coordinated UCITS must be reported to the CMVM. No. No. Investments are permitted in all sectors except those that, under general law, are closed to private enterprise corporations. Foreign investments must be registered within 30 days after the operation has taken place. Projects of special interest to the Portuguese economy are covered by a separate and contractual regime. No. No. No. Nondiscriminatory prudential rules apply to (1) the establishment of branches abroad, for which prior notification to and permission of the Banco de Portugal (BDP) is required; (2) the establishment of subsidiaries in non-EEA member countries, for which prior notifi- cation to and permission of the BDP is required; (3) the acquisition of qualifying holdings in foreign banks or other credit institutions, for which prior notification to the BDP is re- quired; and (4) limits on other investments (e.g., capital holdings in a company may not exceed 15% of a bank's own funds and the total amount of qualifying holdings may not exceed 60% of a bank's own funds —in both cases, these limits are not applied to share- holdings in companies included in the supervision on a consolidated basis to which the shareholding bank is subject). In banks by nonresidents Nondiscriminatory prudential rules apply to the acquisition of qualifying holdings. Open foreign exchange position limits The prudential minimum own-funds requirements are applied on a nondiscriminatory basis. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents There are limits on these acquisitions, and the acquisition of some securities is prohibited. There are no maximum limits on investments in securities by insurance companies and pension funds issued by nonresidents. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition The currency-matching requirement for insurance companies is 80%, and that for pension funds is 70%. Other controls imposed by securities laws Regulations pertaining to financial markets are issued by the MOF and the CMVM. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 763 Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. Financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia were prohibited. September 29. Financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo were prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 4, 1973. Currency Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange Arrangement The currency of Qatar is the Qatar riyal. Unitary. Yes. The Qatar riyal is pegged to the dollar at QR 3.64 per $1. Exchange rates of commercial banks for transactions in dollars are based on the Qatar Central Bank's (QCB's) buying and selling rates. A spread of QR 0.0085 is applied to exchange transactions with the public. The buying and selling rates of commercial banks for other currencies are based on the QCB's rates for the dollar and on market rates for the currency concerned against the dollar. No. No. In the commercial banking sector, importers may purchase foreign exchange in the forward market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements with Israel are prohibited, as are all financial transactions with Serbia and Montenegro. No other prescription of currency requirements is in force. Effective January 1, 2003, the GCC Customs Union came into effect. The QCB is the exchange control authority, but there is no exchange control legislation. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. International security restrictions Financial transactions with Serbia and Montenegro are prohibited. On May 22, 2003, set- tlements and trade with Iraq were allowed. Previously, these were prohibited. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Measures have been taken to freeze the accounts and assets of listed individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Yes. No. For trading purposes, the buying and selling of gold and precious metals require import licenses and are subject to customs duty. Transactions with Israel are prohibited. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 764 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR 765 Foreign exchange accounts permitted No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n .a. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted, but approval is required. Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of a lcoho l ic beverages, firearms, ammun i t ion, and certain drugs are subject to li- censing for reasons of health or public policy. Negative list All imports from Israel are prohibited, as are imports of pork and its derivatives. Import taxes and/or tariffs In accordance with the GCC Customs Union, a maximum GET of 5% is applied on most du t iab le goods. The customs tariff on steel is 20%, and on alcohol and tobacco, 100%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 766 QATAR Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Noncitizens may engage in simple crafts as well as in commerce, industry, and agriculture. The foreign direct investment law of October 2000 allows up to 100% foreign ownership in the agriculture, industry, health, and tourism sectors. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Real estate ownership is restricted to GCC nationals. Purchase locally by nonresidents Non-GCC nationals are not allowed to own real estate. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. The GCC Customs Union came into operation. May 22. Settlements and trade with Iraq were allowed. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position as of April 30, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 25, 1998. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Romania is the Romanian leu. The transferable ruble continues to be used as a unit of account for outstanding balances of the former CMEA. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling band The exchange rate of the leu is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The National Bank of Romania (NBR) intervenes in the foreign exchange market to guide the exchange rate in line with the annual inflation objective, allowing for modest real apprecia- tion of the leu vis-a-vis the euro (prior to March 3, 2003, the dollar); this policy is aimed at using the exchange rate as an implicit nominal anchor. Since 2001, and particularly during 2003, the NBR's interventions decreased substantially in terms of both frequency and vol- ume, thus allowing wider daily exchange rate fluctuations. Dealings in the foreign exchange market take place on the basis of supporting documents. Credit institutions require NBR authorization to participate in the interbank market as in- termediaries. Juridical persons other than authorized credit institutions may purchase or sell foreign exchange through authorized credit institutions. Natural persons may purchase or sell foreign currency either through authorized credit institutions or through foreign ex- change offices authorized by the NBR. The NBR quotes rates for 17 foreign currencies based on the rates for these currencies against the euro in the countries concerned. Foreign exchange offices conduct transactions with banknotes of all the above foreign currencies and accept traveler's checks denominated in those currencies. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market The forward market is not yet developed. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and from countries with which Romania has bilateral payment arrangements are made only in convertible currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those arrangements. There are arrangements with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and some former CMEA members, aimed at liquidating the balance of the CMEA accounts. There are arrangements with Albania, Algeria, Costa Rica, Egypt, and Greece. Romania is a member of the CEFTA and has free trade agreements with the EFTA coun- tries, Albania, Israel, Lithuania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Moldova, and Turkey. Romania is an associated member of the EU. There are clearing arrangements with Bangladesh, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and a few countries of the former CMEA, but they are used only to settle previous balances. 767 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 768 ROMANIA Administration of control The NBR issues rules and regulations related to the control of foreign exchange transac- tions and authorizes certain capital transfers. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Measures have been taken to freeze the accounts and assets of listed individuals, groups, and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Yes. Effective November 18, 2003, processing and trade in gold by natural and juridical persons are subject to authorization by the National Authority for Consumer Protection. (Previ- ously, effective January 1, 2003, trade and ownership of bullion was allowed freely; prior to that date, the NBR had the sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any form.) Effective April 10, 2004, controls on the export and import of banknotes were lifted. How- ever, customs declarations are required for amounts in excess of the equivalent of €10,000 in foreign currency or €1,000 in domestic currency. Undeclared amounts exceeding these limits are subject to confiscation. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Effective April 10, 2004, amounts in excess of the equivalent of €1,000 require a customs declaration. Previously, natural persons could take out lei 500,000 a person a trip. Effective April 10, 2004, amounts in excess of the equivalent of €10,000 require a customs declaration. Previously, natural persons could take out foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $10,000 a person a trip. Effective April 10, 2004, amounts in excess of the equivalent of €1,000 require a customs declaration. Previously, natural persons could bring into Romania up to lei 500,000 a person a trip. Effective April 10, 2004, amounts in excess of the equivalent of €10,000 require a customs declaration. Previously, natural persons could bring into Romania up to the equivalent of $10,000 a person a trip. Resident Accounts These accounts may be held by (1) autonomous state agencies, commercial companies, associations, clubs, leagues, and any other profit or nonprofit juridical persons authorized to perform activities in Romania; (2) foreign branches' subsidiaries, representatives, and agencies registered and/or authorized to conduct business in Romania; (3) embassies, consulates, or other Romanian representatives abroad; (4) branches, subsidiaries, representatives, and agencies of Romanian entities that conduct activities but are not registered abroad as legal entities; (5) Romanian citizens; (6) natural persons with foreign citizenship; and (7) stateless persons domiciled in Romania. Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Yes. Yes. Approval is required except for some categories specified in the regulations. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Current and time deposit accounts in domestic currency are limited to the countries with which Romania has regional convertibility. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Full convertibility is permitted for current and capital account transactions, based on supporting documents (except for credit institutions and foreign exchange offices). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency ROMANIA 769 Nonresident Accounts Yes. The accounts in domestic currency consist of current account types A and B, and deposit accounts. Current accounts of type A are for depositing proceeds from current transactions; sales and purchases of foreign currency against lei, when the underlying transaction is of a current nature; transfers from B accounts; and interest earned on A and B accounts. Current accounts of type B are for capital transactions, i.e., sales and purchases of foreign exchange against lei when the underlying transaction is of a capital nature; proceeds from capital transactions; and transfers to or from A accounts. Deposit accounts require the prior authorization of the NBR. Full convertibility applies to permitted current account transactions. Full convertibility also applies to permitted capital transactions of nonresidents, as well as to capital transactions that are subject to authorization of the NBR. Approval required Blocked accounts Approval is required to open and maintain these accounts. Accounts are blocked in accordance with international security restrictions. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Documentation is required for all import payments. Imports, in general, are not subject to licensing. The government may restrict imports for reasons of public health, national defense, and state security, in accordance with the provisions of the WTO. Yes. There is a customs fee of 0.5% for imports other than those from the CEFTA, EFTA, EU, Albania, Israel, Lithuania, and Turkey. Import taxes and/or tariffs Tariff rates range between zero and 98%, averaging about 19%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Effective January 30, 2003, no repatriation requirements apply. Previously, repatriation had to be effected (1) within 90 calendar days after the goods crossed the border, in the case of receipts against sight documents; and (2) within 15 calendar days from the date of delivery, execution, or rendering that appeared in the contract, in the case of advance payments. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for statistical purposes on certain new materials and minimally processed goods. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 770 ROMANIA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers There are no controls on these transactions; however, payments and transfers are subject to documentary procedures. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Effective January 30, 2003, pursuant to Government Ordinance No. 34 (2003), repatriation requirements no longer apply. Previously, repatriation had to be effected within 90 days after completing the work or rendering the services; 5 days from the due date that appeared in the contract; or, in the case of advance payments, 15 days after completing the work or rendering the services. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Effective January 1, 2004, these transactions no longer require NBR authorization. Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Effective January 1, 2003, NBR authorization is no longer required for residents to pur- chase capital market securities abroad. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Effective January 1, 2004, these transactions no longer require NBR authorization. Purchase abroad by residents Effective January 1, 2003, these transactions no longer require NBR authorization. On money market instruments These transactions require NBR authorization, except for the sale of money market securities by banks. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Effective January 1, 2004, these transactions no longer require NBR authorization. Purchase abroad by residents Effective January 1, 2003, these transactions no longer require NBR authorization. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Derivatives may be purchased freely on capital markets, but the purchase of derivatives on money markets is subject to NBR authorization, except for operations aimed at hedging against risks arising from international commercial transactions. Derivatives may be sold and issued freely by nonresidents on capital markets, but the issue must be approved by the National Commission for Securities. Effective January 1, 2004, the sale or issue of derivatives in the capital market no longer requires prior NBR authorization. Derivatives may be purchased freely on capital markets, but purchases involving instru- ments traded on money markets require NBR authorization, except for operations aimed at hedging against risks arising from international commercial transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 771 Nonresidents may extend medium- and long-term credits related to international commer- cial transactions to residents without NBR authorization. Effective January 1, 2003, non- residents may also extend short-term credits without NBR authorization. Effective January 1, 2003, financial credits with a short-term maturity no longer require NBR authorization. No. No. Yes. Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Effective January 1, 2003, these transactions no longer require NBR authorization. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Effective January 1, 2003, transactions in maturities of less than one year no longer require NBR authorization. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Ratios on reserves d iffer according to the currency involved. The reserve requirement rates are 18% for lei deposits and 25% for foreign currency deposits. The maturity period for banks' liabilities in foreign exchange subject to the reserve requirement is two years. Yes. NBR authorization is required for investments by residents or nonresidents of more than 5% in a bank's equity. The daily maximum foreign exchange limit for each currency is 10% of a bank's own funds, and the aggregate foreign exchange limit is 20% of a bank's own funds. For branches of foreign banks, the daily maximum foreign exchange limit is the equivalent of $1 million. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. n.r. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement March 3. The euro replaced the dollar as the reference currency for the Romanian leu. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 1. Trade and ownership of bullion was allowed freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 772 ROMANIA November 18. According to Government Decision No. 1344, processing and trade in gold by natural and juridical persons were made subject to authorization by the National Author- ity for Consumer Protection. Exports and export proceeds January 30. Under Government Ordinance No. 34, the repatriation requirements were eliminated. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers January 30. Under Government Ordinance No. 34, the repatriation requirements were eliminated. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments January 1. The NBR authorization requirements for residents to purchase capital market, bonds or other debt, and collective investment securities abroad were eliminated. Controls on credit operations Controls on personal capital transactions January 1. Nonresidents were allowed to extend to residents short-term credits related to international commercial transactions and short-term financial credits without NBR authorization. January 1. Loans to nonresidents from residents no longer required NBR authorization. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. Lending to nonresidents of transactions with short-term maturities no longer required NBR authorization. Changes During 2004 Arrangements for payments and receipts April 10. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes were lifted. However, customs declaration was required for amounts exceeding the equivalent of €10,000 in foreign cur- rencies and the equivalent of €1,000 in domestic currency. Undeclared amounts in excess of these limits were made subject to confiscation. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments January 1. NBR authorization was no longer required for the sale or issue locally by non- residents of (1) shares or other securities of a participating nature; (2) bonds or other debt securities; and (3) collective investment securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments January 1. Sales and issues locally by nonresidents of derivatives in the capital market no longer required NBR authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION (Position as of July 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Russia is the Russian ruble. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax The Central Bank of the Russian Federation, BOR, sets and announces the official ex- change rates against the ruble, which are based on the interbank market exchange rates. These rates are used for accounting and taxation purposes and in operations with the MOF. The BOR intervenes in both the interbank currency exchanges and the over-the-counter interbank market to maintain a stable ruble exchange rate. The dollar is the intervention currency. Effective January 1, 2003, the 1% tax on purchases of foreign currencies and foreign pay- ment instruments by resident natural persons was lifted. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Forward transactions are conducted by authorized banks. Trading in futures contracts is conducted on the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange and the St. Petersburg Currency Exchange. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Effective September 14, 2003, the restrictions on conversion of "S" accounts for capital transactions were lifted (Directive No. 1319-U). Previously, requirements established by the BOR applied to transactions effected by nonresidents through "S" ruble accounts. Use of foreign exchange among residents Settlements between residents in foreign exchange are allowed on terms determined by the BOR. Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative There are agreements with the CIS countries, Bulgaria, China, Mongolia, and Vietnam. Agreements with the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Cuba, Egypt, India, and the Syrian Arab Republic are inoperative. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control The BOR enforces foreign exchange control regulations, supervises and monitors transac- tions of authorized banks, and regulates banks' open foreign exchange positions. In addi- tion to the BOR, the federal executive authorities (either authorized by the government or within the limits of their jurisdiction) have the authority for foreign exchange control, with the exception of transactions by credit institutions and exchange bureaus. 773 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 774 RUSSIAN FEDERATION International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Certain commercial and financial transactions with Iraq are prohibited. Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Yes. Yes. The purchase and sale of precious metals by juridical persons must be reported to the Fed- eral Financial Monitoring Service (FFMS) (prior to April 1, 2004, the Financial Monitoring Committee of the Russian Federation—FMC). Residents require a license from the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade (MEDT) to export gold. Banks also require a license from the BOR to conduct transactions in precious metals in order to export gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported and imported by residents and nonresi- dents in accordance with procedures established by the Law of the Russian Federation on Foreign Exchange Regulation and Foreign Exchange Control. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Effective June 18, 2004, exports of domestic banknotes require prior registration. Resident and nonresident natural persons may export ruble banknotes up to the equivalent of 500 times the minimum wage established in the Russian Federation. Resident juridical persons selling goods and services to international travelers may freely export ruble bank- notes. Authorized banks may export ruble banknotes to their branches abroad and to non- resident banks that maintain correspondent accounts with authorized banks. Exports of ruble banknotes by other juridical persons are prohibited. The BOR may export ruble bank- notes without limit. Effective March 16, 2003, resident and nonresident natural persons may not export foreign banknotes exceeding the equivalent of $10,000, and exports exceeding $3,000 require a customs declaration. Previously, resident and nonresident natural persons could export foreign currency banknotes in a lump sum up to the equivalent of $10,000 without provid- ing documentary evidence of the source of the funds. Amounts exceeding $3,000 must be declared to customs. Amounts exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 may be exported only if previously imported, as indicated on the customs declaration. Effective June 18, 2004, imports of domestic banknotes require prior registration. Resident and nonresident natural persons may import ruble banknotes up to 500 times the minimum wage established in the Russian Federation. Military personnel and employees of Russian forces stationed abroad and arriving in the Russian Federation on leave or at a new duty station, and military personnel discharged to reserve status from service abroad and arriving in the Russian Federation may import rubles up to the amounts indicated in the information bulletins of field offices of the BOR. Refugees entering the Russian Federation may import ruble banknotes in the amount of 500 times the minimum wage established by the govern- ment; amounts above this limit may be imported only with documentary evidence of the source of the funds that has been certified by the consular services of the Ministry of For- eign Affairs of the Russian Federation. Resident juridical persons selling goods and services to international travelers may freely import ruble banknotes. The BOR may import ruble banknotes without limits. Authorized banks may import ruble banknotes from nonresident banks with which they maintain correspondent branch ac- counts and from their own branches abroad. Import of ruble banknotes by other juridical persons is prohibited. Residents and nonresidents may transfer and import any amount of foreign currency into the Russian Federation, provided that customs regulations are observed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 775 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Residents may open foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks without restriction. Resident Accounts Held abroad Effec t ive June 18, 2004, settlements and transfers associated with the acquisition of shares, contributions, property interest (in the authorized or contributory capital or the jo int fund of a cooperative) in jur id ical persons by residents (other than credit institutions) from nonresi- dents are subject to BOR procedures. Specifically, the BOR may introduce requirements on the accounts that may be used and/or requirements for the resident to provision an amount of up to 100% of the amount of the foreign exchange transaction being effected for a period of no more than 60 calendar days. Previously, a BOR permit was required for all deposits of proceeds from capital transactions except for (1) crediting foreign exchange received from a nonresident as payment for shares in the authorized capital of such a resident to a resident foreign currency account; (2) crediting foreign exchange received from a nonresi- dent under a participatory contract to a resident foreign currency account; and (3) repay- ments of funds prev ious ly received from a nonresident as payment for shares in the author- ized capital of a resident ju r id ical person under a participatory contract effected in rubles to the nonres iden t's account. BOR approval is required for residents to open and ma in ta in accounts abroad. However, effective June 18, 2004, approval is not required for resident natural persons to open ac- counts in OECD- and FATF-member countries, provided that the funds credited to these accounts are not used for commercial purposes. Resident natural persons may ma in ta in these accounts for the duration of a stay abroad, subject to prior registration with tax authorities. Upon return, these accounts must be closed and the balances transferred or imported to Russia, except in cases specified by the BOR. Resident authorized banks licensed to engage in ruble and foreign exchange transactions may ma in ta in correspondent accounts with nonresident banks. They may also open ac- counts in nonresident banks to service the activities of the ir representative off ices abroad, subject to no t if ica t ion requirements. If regulations of parent authorized banks permit, their foreign branches may freely maintain accounts with nonresident banks. Resident juridical persons (except for budgetary organizations) may open foreign currency accounts in nonresident banks to service the activities of their representative offices abroad. Resident juridical persons (other than credit institutions) may maintain accounts in noncon- vertible foreign currencies only for settlements under international construction contracts, subject to notification requirements. Holders of these accounts must inform the relevant tax authorities about the opening of such accounts and report movements of funds on a monthly basis. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Accounts may be opened without restriction. Nonresident juridical persons may open and ma in ta in six types of accounts: (1) "K" ac- counts, whose balances may be converted into foreign currency; (2) "N" accounts, whose balances may be converted into foreign currency not less than 365 days after presentation of a currency purchase order to an authorized bank; (3) "F" accounts, which may be freely opened by nonresident natural persons and whose balances may be freely converted into foreign currency; and (4) three categories of "S" accounts, which are (i) conversion ac- counts, whose balances are convertible into foreign currency; (ii) investment accounts, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 776 RUSSIAN FEDERATION whose balances may not be converted into foreign currency; and (iii) project accounts, whose resources are used for domestic investments, which require BOR permission (funds credited to project accounts may be transferred freely to "S" (conversion) accounts and converted into foreign currency). Prior to September 15, 2003, a fourth type of "S" ac- count —transit accounts—existed, which was used for converting balances from "S" (in- vestment) accounts to "S" (conversion) accounts, in which case the minimum time period funds had to remain in them was set by the BOR. Effective February 25, 2003, the time requirement for holding funds from "S" accounts in transit accounts was reduced to 30 days and that for holding securities from "S" accounts was reduced to 60 days. "K," 4<N," and "F" accounts may be freely opened at authorized banks. "S" accounts may be freely opened only at authorized banks that have special approval of the BOR to main- tain these accounts. There are no restrictions on the purchase of foreign currency with balances in "K," "F," or "S" (conversion) accounts. Effective July 1, 2004, nonresidents may transfer funds from these accounts abroad to other domestic accounts in their name freely, subject to reserve requirements. The BOR may impose a zero-interest deposit requirement of up to 100% and up to 60 days for transfers to and from these accounts. Only funds in "F," "K," " N," and "S" (conversion) accounts may be converted. Conver- sion and repatriation of funds from "N" accounts are permitted after 365 days, during which the balance may not be less than the amount indicated on the order, and requires the submission by a nonresident of a purchase order for the currency concerned. The opening of project accounts by nonresidents requires prior approval. No. Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Effective June 18, 2004, residents may make advance payments for certain imports of goods, services, and intellectual property for a period of up to 180 days (previously, 90 days) without restriction; for periods in excess of this limit, BOR approval is required, with the exception of operations associated with capital transactions as specified by legisla- tion. Residents may make advance payments for imports according to the Harmonized Sys- tem Code for a period of up to three years without restriction. Other advance payments are subject to provisioning requirements. Effective June 18, 2004, advance payments in excess of 180 days (previously, 90 days) are subject to provisioning requirements of up to 50% of the advance payment for up to 2 years, payable on the last day of the original 180-day period. This may be increased to three years for payments for imports according to the Harmonized System Code. This pro- visioning requirement does not apply when there are other established modes for ensuring compliance with the obligations, such as the following: (1) an irrevocable letter of credit covered at the expense of the payer, on the condition that the issuing bank is either a Rus- sian authorized bank with a general license from the BOR or a foreign bank meeting crite- ria established by the BOR; (2) a guarantee issued to a resident juridical person by a foreign bank and meeting criteria established by the BOR; (3) an insurance policy against loss, damages, civil liability, or business risk (including failure to receive funds or goods) to a resident; or (4) a promissory note issued by a nonresident that is the contracting party of a resident juridical person under the agreement for the import of goods on behalf of that resi- dent juridical person and secured by a foreign bank, and meeting criteria established by the BOR. To purchase foreign currency to make prepayment for imports, an importer must present to the issuing bank a foreign currency purchase order approved by the MOF if the amount of the advance payment for the import exceeds the equivalent of $10,000. This requirement was eliminated on April 10, 2004. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 777 Letters of credit Settlements may be made with LCs, but this is not mandatory. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Private imports of ethyl alcohol are prohibited. Licenses are required for imports of various alcoholic products, as well as dual-use items, military equipment, medicine, industrial waste, and ozone-depleting substances. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Most customs duties range from 5% to 15%, but 25-30% duties are levied on certain sensi- tive goods. The following products are exempt from duties: insulin and some other phar- maceuticals, printed materials, cotton and cotton wastes, some animal species, new dia- monds, wheelchairs, works of art, collectibles, and antiques. Imports of goods on the approved list from developing countries are subject to a customs duty that is 75% of the applicable rate. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds All proceeds from exports received by residents must be credited in f u ll to their foreign exchange accounts opened with authorized banks. Foreign exchange proceeds may remain in the accounts of residents or third parties with banks outside the Russian Federation if they were received from the export of goods, work, services, or intellectual property up to the amount necessary for execution of the obligations of residents under credit agreements with nonresidents who are agents of governments of OECD-member states. Effective July 10, 2003, a surrender requirement of 25% (previously, 50%) is applied to proceeds from exports of goods, services, and intellectual property of residents. Effective December 10, 2003, the surrender requirement is subject to a ceiling of 30%. Residents must surrender foreign exchange proceeds from exports of goods within seven days through servicing authorized banks on interbank currency exchanges, the over-the-counter interbank market, the BOR (with the approval of the Department of Financial Market Transactions of the BOR), or directly through the authorized bank servicing the resident. The following are exempt from the surrender requirement: (1) receipts from transactions of the government, authorized federal authorities, the BOR, and entities acting on its behalf; (2) receipts by authorized banks from operations and other transactions as stipulated in the Federal Law on Banks and Banking; (3) foreign exchange received in transactions involv- ing the transfer of external securities; and (4) proceeds of residents up to the amounts nec- essary to discharge obligations under credit agreements with nonresident organizations that are agents of foreign governments or with residents of OECD- or FATF-member countries for a period of more than two years. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Settlements may be made with LCs, but this is not mandatory. Export licensing is limited to goods on a list approved by the government including m i l i- tary equipment and arms, precious metals and stones, rare animals and plant species, dual- use items, ethyl alcohol and alcoholic products, and goods and services exported in accor- dance with international obligations. Licenses are issued by the MEDT in accordance with established procedures. Yes. Export taxes are levied on 141 items, and the rate for most of them is 6.5%, with a maxi- mum rate of 50% for nonferrous scrap. A number of goods are subject to specific duties, inc lud ing crude oil and petroleum products. Certain goods are subject to combined duties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 778 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers by residents are considered current foreign exchange operations under the legislation of the Russian Federation and are not subject to restrictions. The following are considered payments for invisible current operations and current trans- fers by residents: (1) transfers abroad of foreign currency for settlements for exports and imports of labor, services, and intellectual property settled immediately or with a deferral of payment for a period of up to 90 days; (2) transfers abroad of interest, dividends, and other income from deposits, investments, credits, and other operations associated with capital transactions; and (3) transfers of a noncommercial nature to and from the Russian Federation. Settlements associated with insurance and reinsurance contributions and payments effected while the relevant agreement is in force may be effected freely on the condition that such agreements do not remain in force for more than five years. Transfers abroad of foreign currency in payment for rental by residents from nonresidents of air, sea, or river vessels, space equipment, or other movable property located outside the Russian Federation may be made freely when the aforementioned objects are rented no later than 180 days after the transfer of the foreign currency, regardless of the rental period. If the aforementioned objects are rented more than 180 days after the transfer date of the foreign currency, regardless of the rental period, BOR approval is required. No restrictions are imposed on transfers by nonresidents to nonresidents. Effective June 18, 2004, the BOR may establish zero-interest deposit requirements of up to 100% for up to 60 days for payments related to investments abroad. These payments must be effected through specified accounts. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Receipts of dividends, interest, and profit by residents from nonresidents abroad must be credited to foreign exchange accounts of residents opened with authorized banks. Residents may freely credit to accounts of nonresident banks foreign exchange proceeds received from exports of services and intellectual property in amounts necessary to dis- charge obligations under credit agreements with nonresidents that are agents of OECD- member countries. Authorized banks participating in the authorized capital of nonresident credit institutions must credit dividends due to them to their correspondent accounts, with the exception of the portion used to replenish the authorized capital of the nonresident credit institution. Effective July 10, 2003, 25% (previously, 50%) of proceeds from exports of services and intellectual property are subject to the surrender requirement, which may be effected through a servicing authorized bank of interbank currency exchange, the OTC interbank market, the BOR (with the approval of the Department of Financial Market Transactions of the BOR), or directly through the authorized bank servicing the resident. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Effective June 18, 2004, the BOR may impose a provisioning requirement on foreign ex- change transactions relating to purchases and sales of domestic and foreign securities. These transactions do not require prior approval, and transactions between natural persons involving foreign securities of up to the equivalent of $150,000 (previously, $75,000) a year are free of restrictions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities RUSSIAN FEDERATION 779 Resident juridical persons that are not credit organizations may freely credit to their foreign exchange accounts maintained with authorized banks foreign currency received from non- residents as shares in their authorized capital. A BOR permit is required for nonresidents to acquire stocks of resident credit organizations. Residents may freely transfer to nonresidents on formal markets securities denominated in foreign currency through authorized banks, on the condition that registration of the rights to these securities and their safekeeping are effected by resident professional securities market participants with a license to engage in depository activities. If either of the above-listed conditions is not met, the transfer requires a permit from the BOR. Authorized banks may freely sell securities to nonresidents for foreign currency on their own behalf and on behalf of clients. Nonresidents may acquire without restriction securities issued by residents with funds in "K" accounts. The BOR has established the following list of securities that may be acquired by nonresi- dents with funds in "S" accounts: (1) stocks of Russian issuers (with the exception of credit institutions) included in the first-level quotation sheet of the Trading Organizers; and (2) stocks of credit institutions where payment is effected in accordance with Order of the Bank of Russia No. 571-U of 1999. Initial placement or trading of securities issued by nonresidents on the domestic market is allowed after their prospectus is registered with the Federal Securities Market Commission of the Russian Federation (FKRTsB); effective April 1, 2004, registration must instead be made with the Financial Markets Service (FSFR). These securities must be denominated in rubles. Nonresidents may sell securities denominated in rubles for rubles without restriction (when the above requirements are met), as well as securities denominated in foreign exchange for foreign exchange. Foreign exchange proceeds of nonresidents from the sale of securities are credited to for- eign exchange accounts opened with authorized banks, and ruble receipts from sales of securities issued by residents are credited to "K" or "S" accounts. Resident juridical persons may purchase securities only with BOR authorization. Resident natural persons may purchase securities abroad without approval of the BOR, in amounts not exceeding the equivalent of $75,000 (effective June 18, 2004, $150,000) during a cal- endar year, through accounts with authorized banks for the purpose of acquiring rights to foreign currency-denominated securities; transfers of amounts below this limit must be reported to the tax authorities. Authorization from the BOR is required for transactions exceeding this limit. Effective April 1, 2004, FSFR authorization (previously, authorization from FKRTsB) is required to issue or sell domestic securities abroad. A BOR permit is required for sales of securities for foreign exchange by residents abroad and for transfers of proceeds from their domestic sale. Proceeds must be transferred to current foreign exchange accounts with au- thorized banks. Resident natural persons may, in the course of one calendar year, transfer foreign currency to the Russian Federation in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of $75,000 (effective June 18, 2004, $150,000) from the sale of securities abroad. BOR ap- proval is required for amounts exceeding this limit. Nonresidents may purchase and sell in the Russian Federation the following debt securities issued by residents using "S" accounts: (1) government short-term zero-coupon bonds; (2) federal loan bonds; (3) government nonmarket bonds and government savings bonds; (4) bonds of the territories of the Russian Federation with a long-term credit rating from one of the international rating companies that is not more than two levels below the sover- eign rating of the Russian Federation; and (5) corporate bonds of Russian issuers (with the exception of credit organizations) with a long-term credit rating from one of the interna- tional rating companies that is not more than two levels below the sovereign rating of the Russian Federation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 780 RUSSIAN FEDERATION Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may use foreign exchange to purchase from residents debt securities denomi- nated in foreign exchange with a permit from the BOR. Nonresidents may freely purchase domestic securities with funds from "K" and "N" accounts. The BOR establishes the list of securities that may be acquired by nonresidents from residents, together with the require- ments thereon, including any required purchases using "S" accounts. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply, except for transactions using "N" and US" accounts. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Issues and sales abroad of debt securities issued by residents require FKRTsB (effective April 1, 2004, FSFR) permission. BOR approval is required for the transfer of resources received by residents from the issuance of bonds on international financial markets. Resident natural persons may freely purchase from accounts opened with banks outside the Russian Federation debt securities in amounts not exceeding the equivalent of $75,000 (effective June 18, 2004, $150,000) in a calendar year; notification to the tax authorities is required. Receipts in foreign currency from the sale abroad of debt securities by residents to nonresi- dents must be credited to foreign exchange accounts of residents with authorized banks. On money market instruments The regulations governing capital market securities apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchases of derivatives with foreign exchange require prior BOR authorization. The pur- chase of derivatives with rubles may be carried out freely through "K" and "N" accounts. Foreign exchange receipts of nonresidents from these operations may be transferred abroad. Sales proceeds in rubles must be credited to "N" accounts of nonresidents with authorized banks. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases are permitted with prior BOR authorization. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Sales are permitted with prior BOR authorization. The transfer of proceeds from sales re- quires prior BOR authorization, and proceeds must be credited to current foreign exchange accounts of residents with authorized banks. Effective June 18, 2004, advance payment for imports and deferral of receipts from exports for a period of more than 180 days, or 3 years in the case of imports according to the Har- monized System Code (previously, 90 days in all cases), require BOR approval and are subject to provisioning requirements of up to 50% for up to 2 years, and to deferrals of payments for up to 5 years for construction work performed by residents abroad, including goods required to perform the work. These requirements do not apply in the case of defer- rals for a period of up to one year, provided that specific enforcing obligations are in place. Effective June 18, 2004, residents may extend foreign or domestic currency loans to non- residents subject to a zero-interest deposit of up to 100% for up to 60 days, as imposed by the BOR. Previously, authorized banks could freely extend financial credits to nonresidents in foreign currency and in rubles regardless of their maturity, resident juridical persons could freely extend loans in foreign currency to nonresidents for a period of up to 180 days or for longer periods after notifying the BOR, and resident juridical persons could freely extend loans to nonresidents in rubles using "N" accounts of nonresidents. Effective June 18, 2004, the BOR may impose a provisioning requirement of up to 20% on these transactions when effected for a period of up to one year. Previously, nonresident banks could freely extend credit to authorized banks in foreign currency and nonresidents could freely extend loans and credit to resident juridical persons in foreign currency for up to 180 days, with the exception of loans in foreign currency placed by resident juridical ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment RUSSIAN FEDERATION 781 persons on international financial markets and of credits obtained by resident juridical per- sons from nonresidents in foreign currency without crediting them to their foreign ex- change accounts with authorized banks. A BOR permit was required in other cases. Direct investment by authorized banks holding a general license from the BOR in the au- thorized capital of banks that are not their own subsidiaries and that operate in OECD or FATF countries or in Belarusian banks may be undertaken with BOR notification; invest- ment in other countries requires BOR approval. On March 7, 2003, the BOR issued notifi- cation procedures for authorized banks to participate in the authorized capital of Belarusian banks (Order of the Bank of Russia No. 217-P). Direct investment in the authorized capital of resident juridical persons that are not credit institutions requires BOR authorization. Direct investment in CIS countries of up to $10 million or its equivalent by resident juridi- cal persons that are not credit institutions may take place subject to notification to the au- thorized bank. Investment exceeding that amount requires BOR approval. Inward direct investment Direct investment in the authorized capital by nonfinancial enterprises requires BOR authorization. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Effective June 18, 2004, residents may purchase real estate abroad freely. Previously, pur- chases required BOR authorization. The regulations governing credit operations apply. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Sanctions are imposed on authorized banks violating reporting requirements on foreign exchange transactions. Maintenance of accounts abroad D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Authorized banks may open correspondent accounts with banks abroad pursuant to the terms specified in the banking license issued by the BOR. The opening of other types of accounts with banks abroad requires prior authorization from the BOR. Lending institutions are required to maintain with the BOR a 10% (effective April 1, 2004, 9%) and 7% reserve requirement against foreign and local currency deposits, respectively, of resident natural persons. For juridical persons a reserve requirement of 19% applies to both local and foreign currency deposits. The required reserve balance is reduced by the amount of ruble cash balances these institutions maintain in their cash departments within limits prescribed by the BOR. For the purpose of monitoring liquidity of credit organizations, the BOR has established liquidity norms, which are determined as the ratio of assets and liabilities of credit organi- zations, taking into consideration maturities, amounts, and types of assets and liabilities and other factors, as well as the ratio of liquid assets to total assets of credit organizations. Credit organizations are not subject to the measures stipulated by federal laws for their noncompliance with norm N5 in instances where the results of a comprehensive analysis of the liquidity of a credit organization do not indicate shortcomings in the status and/or man- agement of liquidity. Authorized banks with general licenses from the BOR may transfer foreign exchange balances to banks in the FATF, OECD member countries, and Belarus for purposes of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 782 RUSSIAN FEDERATION In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits participating in their authorized capital with BOR notification, and to other countries with BOR approval. Nonresidents may undertake investments in the authorized capital of resident credit organi- zations with BOR approval. The open foreign exchange position of commercial banks is 20% of capital for all curren- cies and 10% of capital for an individual currency or precious metal. These limits are calcu- lated on a stock and transaction date basis. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws The federal law governing the securities market prohibits discriminatory treatment of non- resident purchases of securities. Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Nonresident accounts Changes During 2003 January 1. The 1% tax on purchases by resident natural persons of foreign currencies and foreign payments instruments was lifted. March 16. Exports of foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of $3,000 were made sub- ject to a customs declaration, and exports exceeding $10,000 were prohibited except in the case of previously imported amounts. September 14. The restrictions on conversion of "S" accounts for capital transactions were l if ted (Directive No. 1319-U). February 25. The time requirement for holding funds from "S" accounts was reduced to 30 days and that for holding securities from "S" accounts was reduced to 60 days. September 15. The "S" transit account was eliminated. Exports and export proceeds July 10. The surrender requirement for proceeds from exports of goods, services, and intel- lectual property of residents was reduced to 25% from 50%. December 10. The surrender requirement was made subject to a ceiling of 30%. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers July 10. The surrender requirement for proceeds from exports of goods, services, and intel- lectual property of residents was reduced to 25% from 50%. Capital transactions Controls on direct investment March 7. The notification procedures for authorized banks to engage in transfers to the Republic of Belarus for participation in the statutory capital of Belarusian banks were in- troduced (Order of the Bank of Russia No. 217-P). Arrangements for payments and receipts April 1. The FMC was reorganized and became the FFMS. Changes During 2004 Resident accounts Nonresident accounts June 18. Exports and imports of domestic banknotes were made subject to prior registration requirements. June 18. Settlements and transfers associated with the acquisition of shares, contributions, property interest (in the authorized or contributory capital or the joint fund of a coopera- tive) in juridical persons by residents (other than credit institutions) from nonresidents were made subject to BOR procedures. June 18. Residents were allowed to open accounts at foreign banks in OECD- or FATF- member countries without approval, provided that the funds credited to these accounts are not used for commercial purposes. July 1. Nonresidents were allowed to transfer funds from "K," "F," and "S" accounts abroad to other domestic accounts in their name freely, subject to reserve requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIAN FEDERATION 783 Imports and import payments April 10. The requirement that advance import payments exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 be approved by the MOF was lifted. June 18. The period for which residents may make advance payments for most goods was increased to 180 days from 90 days, except for imports according to the Harmonized Sys- tem Code, for which payments may be made for up to 3 years. June 18. Advance payments in excess of 180 days (previously, 90 days) were made subject to provisioning requirements of up to 50% for up to 2 years, or up to 3 years for imports according to the Harmonized System Code. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers June 18. The BOR established zero-interest deposit requirements of up to 100% for up to 60 days for payments related to investments abroad. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments April I. The responsibility of the FKRTsB for registration and approval of certain transac- tions was shifted to the FSFR. Controls on credit operations June 18. The BOR was allowed to impose a provisioning requirement on foreign exchange transactions relating to purchases and sales of foreign and domestic securities, and the limit below which these transactions may be effected without restriction was increased to the equivalent of $150,000 from $75,000. June 18. Advance payment for imports and deferral of receipts from exports for a period of more than 180 days, or 3 years in the case of imports according to the Harmonized System Code (previously, 90 days in all cases), was made subject to BOR approval and provision- ing requirements of up to 50% for up to 2 years. June 18. Residents may extend foreign or domestic currency loans to nonresidents subject to a zero-interest deposit of up to 100% for 60 days as imposed by the BOR. June 18. The BOR introduced a provisioning requirement of up to 20% on f inanc ial credits to residents from nonresidents for a period up to one year. Controls on real estate transactions June 18. Residents were allowed to purchase real estate abroad freely. Previously, pur- chases required BOR authorization. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions April 1. The reserve requirement applicable to foreign currency deposits of resident natural persons was reduced to 9% from 10%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position as of January 31, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 10, 1998. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the Rwanda franc is determined in the foreign exchange market; however, the authorities intervene to influence the rate. A foreign exchange auction system is in effect. Banks may apply a variable commission to exchange operations. The National Bank of Rwanda (NBR) does not announce off ic ial exchange rates, but it calculates and publishes daily the average market exchange rate for reference purposes. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market A forward exchange market has been established but is not yet operational. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements No. Use of foreign exchange among residents Banknotes and coins issued by the NBR are the only legal tender, but payments with foreign banknotes are permitted. Payments arrangements Regional arrangements The NBR maintains agreements with the central banks of the CEPGL countries. Under these arrangements, settlements are made through the COMESA clearinghouse, which currently is being restructured. Payments to and from other member countries of the COMESA are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible currencies. Clearing agreements Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts An arrangement exists with Uganda, but it is not operational. Administration of control Foreign exchange control authority is vested in the NBR, which has delegated authority to authorized banks and foreign exchange bureaus to carry out some of the controls. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Trade is restricted to dealers approved by the relevant ministry. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold require a declaration. 784 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 785 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency A declaration is required for exports of banknotes exceeding the equivalent of $100. Foreign exchange purchased from an authorized dealer or foreign exchange bureau may be exported freely. Foreign exchange declared to customs on entry into the country may be reexported upon presentation of the declaration documents. Declaration is required for the import of banknotes exceeding the equivalent of $100. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign currency withdrawals exceeding the equivalent of $50,000 a year require supporting documentation. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Supporting documentation is required for deposits of foreign currency by residents and nonresidents, and deposits from nonresidents' or residents' domestic and/or foreign currency accounts. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Imports are generally paid for after delivery. However, authorized banks may make ad- vance payments upon the presentation of supporting documentation showing that such payment is needed. They may also sell up to the equivalent of $50,000 in foreign exchange to importers who request this for imports of goods and services, with supporting documents to be presented later; such transactions must be settled by check or bank transfer. Imports with an f.o.b. value of the equivalent of $5,000 or more ($3,000 for fresh food- stuffs and Pharmaceuticals) and any partial deliveries of these goods must be inspected by an international agency with regard to the quality, quantity, price, and customs tariff of the goods before they are shipped to Rwanda, unless otherwise authorized by the NBR. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 786 Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list RWANDA Imports with an f.o.b. value of the equivalent of $5,000 or more are subject to a bank import declaration. A reduced limit of $3,000 applies to fresh foodstuffs and pharmaceutical products. These declarations must be accompanied by a pro forma invoice stating the f.o.b. value of the merchandise. All imports of narcotics are prohibited. Certain categories of imports, such as explosives and weapons, require prior approval from the relevant authorities, regardless of origin and value. For reasons of health, the importation of human or veterinary medicines, disinfec- tants, insecticides, rodent poisons, fungicides, herbicides, and other toxic or potentially toxic chemicals is subject to the approval of the relevant pro forma invoices by the Ministry of Health. Open general licenses Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs In addition to customs duty, a file-processing charge equal to 0.67% of the f.o.b. value of imported general merchandise is levied, when imports are declared, to cover costs incurred by the inspection agency. This rate is increased to 0.87% for pharmaceutical products and fresh foodstuffs. In both cases, the m in imum payment is set at the equivalent of $180. Consumption taxes of 57% on malted beer and 10% on powdered m i lk and mineral water apply. Gasoline-powered vehicles other than passenger vehicles, trucks, and pickup trucks of less than 1,500 cm3, 1,500-2,500 cm3, and more than 2,500 cm3 are subject to consump- tion taxes of 50%, 10%, and 15%, respectively. The maximum import tariff is 30%, and the intermediate rates are 5% and 15%. Most capi- tal goods are exempt from tariff. In accordance with Law No. 52/12/2001, tariffs for imports from COMES A members were reduced by 90% (previously, 80%) on January 1, 2003, and then eliminated on January 1, 2004. The import tariff rate on finished products is 30% of the c.i.f. value. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Effective January 1, 2003, proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days of the shipment date (previously, seven business days). They may be held in their entirety in foreign exchange accounts maintained by the exporter at local authorized banks or sold on the foreign exchange market. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Effective January 1, 2003, a bank export declaration form is required for exports exceeding the equivalent of $10,000. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Authorized banks are permitted to transfer foreign exchange without restriction to cover payment of the following invisible transactions on terms defined by each bank: dividends; salaries of directors and managers and professional fees; copyrights and royalties; mer- chandise repair costs; interest payments on credit cards to foreign companies; reinsurance premiums; reimbursements of expenses owed to foreign airline companies; advertising costs; rental and leasing costs; maritime, road, and air transportation and transit costs; sub- scription fees for newspapers, periodicals, and membership in trade organizations and pro- fessional associations; and costs of correspondence courses and books. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for travel Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits RWANDA 787 Effective January 1, 2003, the maximum tourism allowance is $5,000 or its equivalent a person a trip (previously, $4,000). In the case of business travel, the maximum amount is $10,000 a person a year. There is no limit on the number of trips that may be taken. Payment of pensions requires NBR approval. Yes. Effective January 1, 2003, on presentation of invoices or estimates for care received, au- thorized banks may transfer freely foreign exchange for medical care to be received by Rwandese residents (previously, the limit was $20,000). In the case of estimates, authorized banks must require their customers to present final invoices at the end of treatment. Author- ized banks may sell a maximum of $5,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currency to residents undergoing medical treatment abroad, or to any person accompanying them, to cover living expenses. In addition, authorized banks may transfer foreign exchange abroad without restriction (previously, the limit was $25,000) for educational expenses of Rwan- dese residents or persons in their charge on presentation of a letter of acceptance, or certifi- cate of attendance for the period indicated, from a recognized educational institution, and a detailed description of required fees —in particular for tuition, rent, or purchases of books and other supplies. Residents may also transfer up to a maximum of $25,000 a year or its equivalent in another currency to cover accommodation and subsistence costs of a Rwandese student abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits Authorized banks may approve salary and wage transfers of expatriates working in Rwanda up to a maximum of 70% of their net remuneration after payment of taxes and social security contributions. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated within three months of receipt and sold in the domestic for- eign exchange market, or be held in foreign exchange accounts with authorized local banks. Any delay must be reported to the NBR. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Currently, only the money market is operational, and transactions are governed by the relevant business law provisions. In addition, requests by nonresidents for treasury note purchases must be submitted to the NBR. Requests for interest payments and proceeds from sales of treasury notes to nonresidents are approved by the NBR on presentation of adequate proof that the requesting party is the holder. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 788 RWANDA On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may participate in the secondary market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Sale proceeds must be repatriated. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment NBR approval is required for residents to receive loans from nonresidents for business purposes. After approval, the NBR issues a registration certificate. Authorized banks may effect repayment of a foreign exchange loan from a nonresident to a resident on presenta- tion of a copy of the loan agreement and the loan registration certificate issued by the NBR. NBR approval is required for all of these transactions. Effective January 1, 2003, provision of credit by authorized banks above a regulatory ceiling requires NBR approval. Previously, all transactions required prior approval. NBR approval is required for all of these transactions. Outward direct investment NBR approval is required. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Foreign direct investment in Rwanda and the purchase of Rwandese shares by nonresident foreigners are not restricted, but must be registered with the NBR. Subsequent repatriation of current investment income and net proceeds from the transfer or liquidation of capital invested with foreign exchange originating abroad may be freely ef- fected by authorized banks. Banks must require their customers to produce the registration certificate issued by the NBR, as well as all information and supporting documentation required by the NBR. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents NBR approval is required. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents NBR approval is required. To residents from nonresidents Proof of transfer of the funds to Rwanda is required at the time of payment. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents NBR approval is required. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets NBR approval is required. Transfer abroad by emigrants NBR approval is required. Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 789 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing is allowed only under certain conditions. Maintenance of accounts abroad Authorized banks may open accounts abroad and maintain credit balances in accordance with prudential rules established by the NBR on the limits on foreign exchange holdings. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) NBR approval is required. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Banks are required to deposit foreign exchange reserves with the NBR with respect to their off-balance-sheet foreign exchange liabilities expressed in dollars. Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities Effective June 17, 2003, limits of 10% and 40% apply on a bank's capital and reserves for long and short positions, respectively. Previously, the limit was 20% for long and short positions combined. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2003 Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds January 1. The percentage of tariff reduction for imports from COMES A members was increased to 90% from 80%. January 1. Proceeds were required to be repatriated within 90 (previously, 7) days of ship- ment date, and proceeds exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 were subject to a bank export declaration form. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 1. Tourist travel allowances were increased to the equivalent of $5,000 from $4,000. January 1. Limits on transfers of foreign exchange for medical treatment abroad as well as for educational expenses were l if ted. Capital transactions Controls on credit operations January 1. A ceiling on provision of credit by authorized banks came into effect, above which NBR approval is required. Previously, all loans by banks required prior NBR approval. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions June 17. Limits of 10% and 40% were applied on banks' capital and reserves for long and short positions, respectively (previously, these were subject to a combined 20% limit). Imports and import payments January 1. The tariff on imports from COMESA members was reduced to zero from 10% of the normal tariff rate. Changes During 2004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 3, 1984. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of St. Kitts and Nevis is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, under a currency board arrange- legal tender ment, at ECS2.70 per US$ 1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with residents of ECCB countries must be effected in Eastern Caribbean dollars. St. Kitts and Nevis is a member of the CARICOM. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the MOF and applies to transactions with all countries. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted U.S. dollar accounts may be operated freely, but permission of the MOF is required to op- erate other foreign currency accounts. Held domestically Approval required Yes. These accounts may be credited only with foreign currency earned or received from abroad and may be debited freely. A minimum balance of US$1,000 must be maintained at all times to operate a U.S. dollar account. Permission is normally granted only to major exporters. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. 790 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS 791 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Nonresident Accounts The regulations governing resident accounts apply. Permission to operate foreign currency accounts is normally granted only to foreign nation- als whose primary residence is not in St. Kitts and Nevis. Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Import payments exceeding EC$250,000 require prior approval from the MOF. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Payments for authorized imports payable in foreign currency are permitted on presentation of an invoice to a bank. Other Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Individual licenses are required for imports that compete with local products unless they come from CARICOM member countries. Negative list Yes. Open general licenses Most goods are imported under OGLs. Import taxes and/or tariffs St. Kitts and Nevis applies the third phase of the CARICOM CET, and the maximum ex- ternal tariff is 25%. A customs surcharge of 6% is levied on all imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be deposited into an ECCB currency account or an approved U.S. dollar account. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection The Customs Department carries out preshipment inspections. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Specific licenses are required for the exportation of certain goods to any destination. How- ever, the regulations governing export licenses are not formally enforced. Yes. Yes. Export duties are levied on a few products. Other export taxes Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Prior approval of the MOF is required for all transactions exceeding EC$250,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 792 ST. KITTS AND NEVIS Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Profits and dividends may be remitted in fu l l, subject to confirmation of registration by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue for income tax purposes. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be sold to a bank or deposited into an approved U.S. dollar account if the proceeds are in U.S. dollars. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS 793 Individuals are permitted to purchase up to EC$250,000 without exchange control approval. All outward capital transfers exceeding this amount require exchange control approval. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents An Alien's Land Holding license is required for purchases of equity shares. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amounts exceeding EC$250,000. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing the sale or issue of capital market securities by nonresidents apply. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing the sale or issue of capital market securities by nonresidents apply. Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing the sale or issue of capital market securities by nonresidents apply. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing the sale or issue of capital market securities by nonresidents apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing the sale or issue of capital market securities by nonresidents apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The seller of the instruments must be licensed under the Banking Act, and transfers abroad in excess of EC$250,000 require approval from the MOF. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents At present, there is no market in derivatives and other instruments. MOF approval is required. On January 1, 2004, the payment of a 2.5% Alien Loan Levy for these transactions was abolished. To residents from nonresidents Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amounts exceeding EC$250,000. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amounts exceeding EC$250,000. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange approval from the MOF is required for amounts exceeding EC$250,000. Investments in equity require an Alien's Land Holding license. The remittance of proceeds from the liquidation of direct investments is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. Transfer of proceeds exceeding EC$250,000 requires MOF approval. Purchase abroad by residents Purchasing real estate abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents require an Alien Land Holding license to purchase real estate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 794 ST. KITTS AND NEVIS Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws MOF approval is required for these transactions. MOF approval is required, which is granted only in the case of projects generating foreign exchange to service the loan. The purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign currencies requires MOF approval. Locally issued securities must be denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars. No. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2004 Capital transactions Controls on credit operations January 1. The 2.5% Alien Loan Levy required for financial credits by residents to non- residents was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 30, 1980. Currency The currency of St. Lucia is the Eastern Caribbean dollar issued by the ECCB. Exchange Arrangement Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar under a currency board arrangement at ECS2.70 per US$1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Settlements must be made in either Eastern Caribbean dollars or U.S. dollars. All transactions exceeding EC$250,000 require MOF approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. St. Lucia is a member of the CARICOM. The MOF is responsible for policy decisions related to exchange control, and its banking section is responsible for its administration. Commercial banks have been delegated the authority to approve payments and transfers under the equivalent of EC$250,000; in the case of imports with proper customs documentation, banks may approve transactions for any amount. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. No. 795 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 796 ST. LUCIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Exports of domestic currency outside the ECCU are subject to limits prescribed by the ECCB. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Transactions exceeding EC$250,000 require MOF approval. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Advance payments exceeding the equivalent of EC$250,000 require prior approval from the MOF. Payments in foreign currency for authorized imports are permitted upon application to a local bank and submission of a customs certificate of entry. Certain agricultural and manufactured products require individual licenses. There are three types of licenses: (1) goods originating from the CARICOM and the OECS; (2) goods from outside these areas; and (3) goods imported directly from non-OECS countries. Manufactured goods originating in the CARICOM and the OECS are exempt from import duties. All imported goods are subject to a consumption tax and, effective May 1, 2003, a service charge of 5% (previously, 4%), except for fertilizers, for which the rate is 0.2%. Live animals, eggs, fish, meat, milk, fertilizers, and most agricultural and manufacturing machinery are exempt from import duties. For non-CARICOM imports, the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET applies at a maximum rate of 20%. State import monopoly The importation of rice, flour, and sugar in bulk form is a state monopoly. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA 797 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. n.a. n.a. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export licensing is required for certain primary products. Yes. A special fee of US$0.02 per barrel is applied to reexports of petroleum. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All transactions exceeding the equivalent of EC$250,000 require MOF approval. Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative Urnits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. With the approval of the MOF, profits may be remitted in fu l l, subject to confirmation by the Comptroller of Inland Revenue and the National Insurance Scheme that liabilities have been discharged. However, in cases where profits are deemed to be high, the MOF reserves the right to phase remittances over a reasonable period. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 798 ST. LUCIA Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements There is no repatriation requirement on proceeds of up to EC$250,000. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Outward transfers exceeding the equivalent of EC$250,000 require exchange control approval. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions require approval from the MOF. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all categories of credit operations. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents These credits require the approval of the MOF. Applications for nonresident loans are sub- mitted by the authorized dealer (or other financial intermediary) to the MOF on behalf of the applicant. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Approval of the MOF is required, except for loans to nonresident St. Lucians. Applications are submitted by authorized dealers on behalf of the applicant. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents All these transactions are controlled. Yes. n.a. Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Approval is not required for nonresident St. Lucians. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale locally by nonresidents The repatriation of estate proceeds exceeding EC$250,000 requires approval. ST. LUCIA 799 Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Yes. Yes. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is restricted to Eastern Caribbean dollars or U.S. dollars. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Purchases are restricted to securities denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or U.S. dollars. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Institutional investors may invest up to 10% of their statutory deposits in government securities of the Commonwealth of Caribbean Nations. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Yes. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws For every U.S. dollar liability, there must be an equivalent U.S. dollar asset, Funds raised from the issue of securities must be invested locally. Imports and import payments May 1. The service charge that applies to most imports was increased to 5% from 4%. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: August 24, 1981. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is the Eastern Caribbean dollar, which is issued by the ECCB. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, under a currency board legal tender arrangement, at ECS2.70 per US$ 1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. n.a. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with residents of member countries of the CARICOM may be made in any currency. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or through an external account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Payments arrangements Yes. Regional arrangements St. Vincent and the Grenadines is a member of the CARICOM. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the MOF and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. All transactions up to the equivalent of EC$250,000 in foreign currency are allowed without approval from the MOF. The MOF delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import payments and certain other payments. Exchange controls are not applied to payments for authorized imports. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) A moratorium has been sought on some debt payments relating to shipyards, pending settlement of issues under dispute with creditors. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only, trade Controls on external trade Imports of gold are permitted under license by the MOF for industrial purposes only. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted n.a. Resident Accounts 800 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 801 Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be opened by nonresidents with the authorization of the MOF and credited only with funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Prior permission of the MOF is required to credit remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments to a foreign currency account by residents. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad without prior authorization from the MOF. The operating banks must submit quarterly statements of the accounts to the MOF. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresidents with the authorization of the MOF. They are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars and may be credited with inward remittances in foreign currency and with transfers from other external accounts. Credits and debits to these accounts are subject to the regulations governing foreign exchange accounts. Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. n.a. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Advance payments for imports over the equivalent of EC$250,000 require prior approval from the MOF. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence and, where required, a license. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Most goods may be imported freely. Imports of some goods that compete with typical ex- ports of other member countries of the CARICOM and the OECS are subject to licenses. Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of certain goods that compete with locally made products are prohibited. In accordance with the fourth phase of the CARICOM CET, the import tariff rates range from zero to 20%. In addition, imports are subject to a consumption tax ranging from 5% to 50% and levied on the tariff-inclusive value of imports. Goods imported from CARICOM member countries are exempt from import tariffs and are subject only to the consumption tax. A customs service charge of 4% is imposed on the c.i.f. value of all imported goods, with certain exceptions. State import monopoly n.a. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses All export proceeds must be surrendered within six months of receipt. n.a. n.a. Specific licenses are required for the exportation to any destination of some agricultural goods included in the CARICOM marketing protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 802 ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES Agreement. The licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade, which, in some cases, has delegated its authority to the St. Vincent Central Marketing Corporation. Exports of goats, sheep, and lobsters are subject to licensing to prevent depletion of stocks. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Payments for travel Quantitative limits Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Other payments exceeding the equivalent of EC$250,000 must be approved by the MOF. Approval is granted routinely. The limits are the equivalent of EC$2,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area, and EC$6,000 a year for business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test These allocations may be increased with the authorization of the MOF. Personal payments Other payments Information is not available on the transfer of funds for pensions, family maintenance, and alimony. The limit for subscriptions and membership fees is the equivalent of EC$250,000 a transaction. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. n.a. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents All outward capital transfers over the equivalent of EC$250,000 require prior approval from the MOF. Residents are normally not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities abroad for private purposes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 803 Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents MOF approval is required. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents MOF approval is required. Controls on direct investment Direct investments abroad exceeding the equivalent of EC$250,000 must be effected in installments and require approval from the Financial Secretary. Outward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The remittance of proceeds is permitted, subject to the discharge of liabilities related to the investment. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Yes. n.a. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the MOF. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAMOA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 6, 1994. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Samoa is the Samoa tala. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The exchange rate is determined on the basis of a fixed relationship with a weighted basket of currencies of Samoa's main trading partners—the Australian dollar, the euro, the Fiji dollar, the New Zealand dollar, and the U.S. dollar. The weights are based on the distribu- tion of trade, private remittances, and travel transactions of Samoa. The Central Bank of Samoa (CBS) has the authority to make discretionary exchange rate adjustments against the currency basket within a margin of up to ±2%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Commercial banks are permitted to make forward exchange contracts. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The domestic use of foreign currencies is subject to CBS approval. Samoa participates in PACER and PICTA. Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the CBS, which delegates part of its powers to authorized banks. In principle, all payments to nonresidents require the CBS's approval. However, the authorized banks—the ANZ Bank (Samoa) Ltd., the National Bank of Samoa, and the Pacific Commercial Bank—are empowered to approve certain payments without limits and others up to specified amounts. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Residents are allowed to export SAT 2,000 as part of their travel allowance. Samoan residents are allowed to export the equivalent of SAT 7,000 in foreign currency. Nonresidents may export the amount of foreign currency they brought into the country. Amounts in excess of the equivalent of SAT 10,000 must be declared at the port of entry. 804 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAMOA Resident Accounts 805 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents who earn foreign exchange in the normal course of their business may open, with the approval of the CBS, external or foreign currency deposit accounts with one of the three authorized banks. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. CBS approval is required to convert these accounts. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents who earn foreign exchange may open a foreign currency deposit account if there is a need to settle overseas commitments, subject to approval. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts These accounts are permitted, but prior approval is required. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs No. No. Yes. Yes. The importation of a few products is prohibited for reasons of security or health. Import duties are levied on an ad valorem basis on c.i.f. values. There are four general rates of duty—zero, 5%, 8%, and 20%. Duties on machinery and agricultural imports are gener- ally 8% or lower, while the duty on motor vehicles is 20%. In addition, an import excise tax is applied to imports of alcohol, soft drinks, tobacco, petroleum, and passenger cars. Enter- prises producing for export may receive fu ll or partial exemption from duties and excise taxes on inputs and capital equipment. Taxes collected through the exchange system There is a value-added goods and service tax. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 806 Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas SAMOA Export proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks within three months of the date of shipment, except for export proceeds from goods shipped to American Samoa, which must be surrendered to the authorized bank within four weeks of the date of shipment. No. Yes. Yes. All exports require export licenses issued by the Customs Department. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture on grounds of low quality, or by order of the head of state to alleviate domestic shortages. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for certain invisibles may be approved by the authorized banks up to specified limits. Payments in excess of these limits, as well as payments for all other invisibles, re- quire the prior approval of the CBS, which is granted when applications are supported by documentary proof that capital transactions are not involved. The CBS's approval process governing the remittance of invisible payments is concerned only with whether a transac- tion is bona fide. Yes. Yes. Yes. A 15% withholding tax is levied on remittances of interest payments on overseas loans and of dividends at the source. Information is not available on payments of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents and expatriates traveling overseas are entitled to purchase from commercial banks a foreign currency allowance equivalent to SAT 700 a person a day, subject to a limit of SAT 7,000 a person a trip; children under 15 years of age are entitled to 50% of the adult allowances. Larger amounts may be purchased with CBS approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Although no limit is set on remittances to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad, documentary evidence must be provided to support requests for such remittances. There is no specific limit for costs to study abroad, but the amount requested must be supported by documentary evidence confirming that the beneficiary is enrolled at an educational institu- tion abroad and costs are in line with the prevailing costs in the country of study. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits SAMOA 807 Expatriate workers with local contracts of one year and longer are considered residents and need CBS approval if they wish to repatriate funds in excess of 80% of their net earnings on a fortnightly or monthly basis. Earnings not repatriated during the contract may be repa- triated at the end of the contract. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test There are specific limits on subscriptions and membership fees, and amounts requested must be supported by documentary evidence. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks. On their return, resident travelers must sell to banks all unused foreign exchange they bring in. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Most capital transactions (inward and outward) require approval of the CBS. Local money markets have begun to develop, following the introduction of open market operations by the CBS. A capital market in foreign currencies has not yet been developed in Samoa. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities All of these transactions are regulated. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Controls on credit operations All credit operations require CBS approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 808 SAMOA Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Investments require CBS approval. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Repatriation of investments requires CBS approval. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require CBS approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings There are no restrictions for nonresidents, but residents require approval from the CBS. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing requires CBS approval. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the CBS. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAN MARINO (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 23, 1992. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of San Marino is the euro. The monetary agreement between San Marino and Italy, renewed on December 21, 1991, provides for San Marino to issue annually agreed amounts of San Marino lira coins equiva- lent in form to Italian coinage; these coins are legal tender in both countries. The San Mar- ino gold scudo is also issued, but is legal tender only in San Marino. It is generally not used in transactions because its numismatic value exceeds its defined legal value, which is €30.99 per 1 scudo. An agreement between San Marino and Italy (on behalf of the EU) that entered into force on April 1, 2001, provides for San Marino to issue, as of January 1, 2002, agreed amounts of euro coins equivalent in form to euro area coinage; these coins are legal tender in the euro area. It also envisages the possibility for San Marino to issue banknotes, provided that an agreement is reached with the EU. The current agreement does not affect San Marino's right to continue issuing gold scudi. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Foreign exchange transactions are conducted through commercial banks without restriction at rates quoted in international markets. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control No. No. Forward transactions may be conducted through commercial banks without restriction at rates quoted in international markets. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with foreign countries on foreign accounts are made in convertible currencies or in euros. No. In accordance with the Finance and Exchange Agreement signed by San Marino and Italy in 1991, the Central Bank of San Marino (CBSM) may authorize Sammarinese banks to maintain "nostro accounts" with financial institutions abroad for cross-border transactions (since August 1, 2000, five banks have been so authorized). Authorized banks are required to provide statistical information to the CBSM. Unauthorized banks may carry out cross- border transactions through an authorized Sammarinese bank or an Italian bank. Residents of San Marino are allowed to conduct cross-border transactions freely, with settlement effected through authorized Italian and Sammarinese intermediaries. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions San Marino adopts the restrictions applied by the EU. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Laws establish that the CBSM is the sole agency entitled to carry out transactions in gold. The CBSM may authorize other banks or domestic companies to buy gold for production purposes, after ensuring the necessary controls. Currently, there is no gold trade in San Marino. 809 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 810 SAN MARINO Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes To combat money laundering, transactions in cash or bearer securities in excess of €15,500 must be made through financial institutions. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are free to maintain any type of deposit accounts, with the exception of numbered accounts. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are free to maintain any type of deposit accounts, with the exception of num- bered accounts. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No license, other than the general business license, is required to engage in trade transac- tions. Imports from the EU are not subject to restrictions, whereas imports from third coun- tries are subject to control under the relevant EU regulations. Customs duties on imports from outside the EU are collected by EU customs authorities on behalf of San Marino. A sales tax is levied by San Marino on all imports at the time of entry. The structure of this tax corresponds closely to the Italian VAT, but the average ef- fective rate is about 3% lower. Sales taxes levied on imports are rebated when the goods are reexported. State import monopoly The importation of electricity, gas, and water is reserved for the public sector. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No licenses, other than the general business license, are required to engage in trade transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Without quotas SAN MARINO 811 Exports to the EU are not subject to restrictions, while exports to third countries are gov- erned by relevant EU regulations. Customs clearance formalities concerning the export of arms, works of art, and precursor and dual-use products must be carried out at the customs offices identified by the EU-San Marino Cooperation Committee. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No controls are applied on transfers. However, payments exceeding €15,500 are to be re- ported to the CBSM for statistical purposes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No controls are applied; however, proceeds exceeding €15,500 are to be reported to the CBSM for statistical purposes. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Inward and outward capital transfers, with few exceptions, are not restricted. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sales are subject to authorization, while the issue of shares or other securities of a partici- pating nature is not allowed. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing the sale and issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments The regulations governing the sale and issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing the sale and issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments The regulations governing the sale and issue of shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The granting of substantial amounts of financial credits to a person or a company is subject to the banking law provisions as well as those of the Supervision Department of the Central Bank (SDCB). In addition, the average interest rates applied by the financial system are monitored and their threshold rates are determined in order to prevent usury. Yes. Yes. Investments require government approval, which is based on conformity with long-term developmental and environmental policy considerations. Foreign investors are accorded equal treatment with national firms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 812 SAN MARINO Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchases by domestic companies and nonresidents require approval from the Council of Twelve. Approval is granted on a case-by-case basis. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Except for occasional transactions, this activity is not allowed. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) The granting of substantial amounts of financial credits to a person or a company is subject to the banking law provisions as well as those of the SDCB. Lending locally in foreign exchange The granting of substantial amounts of financial credits to a person or a company is subject to the banking law provisions as well as those of the SDCB. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Yes. The purchase of securities of a participating nature exceeding 5% of a Sammarinese bank's capital must be declared to the SDCB. Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe dobra. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax The official exchange rate is computed on a daily basis as a simple average of the exchange rates of the exchange bureaus, the commercial banks, and the parallel market. The interven- tion currency is the dollar. Rates for certain other currencies are determined on the basis of exchange rates of the dollar for the currencies concerned. The tax rates vary, according to the type of transaction involved. On import-related exchange transactions, when an LC is opened, a stamp duty of 0.25% of the import value and a postage levy of the equivalent of $2 are payable. On foreign checks for collection, commercial banks charge a commission of $2 a transaction. For the collection of export proceeds, a commission of 0.125% (a minimum of $25 and a maximum of $300) is charged when the LC is opened, and an additional fee of 0.125% is levied when the funds are received. A postage levy of Db 39,000 is also charged. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. There is an inoperative bilateral agreement with Angola. An outstanding debit balance re- mains with Angola. Import and export licenses are granted freely by the Directorate of External Commerce for statistical purposes only. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Yes. Resident Accounts 813 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 814 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE Yes. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be opened freely and credited or debited, including for transfers abroad, as long as they are demand deposit accounts. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted and credited or debited, including for transfers abroad, as long as they are demand deposit accounts. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits At the time an LC is opened, importers are required to lodge a deposit in the domestic cur- rency equivalent —which is currently not remunerated —of up to 100% of the value of the LC (depending on the creditworthiness of the operator). Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are automatically granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. All individuals and economic entities are permitted to engage in import activities. Import taxes and/or tariffs The customs tariffs consist of three rates: 5%, 10%, and 20%, with no zero-rate band, and specific consumer taxes are levied on refined petroleum products, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco. Imports of automobiles are subject to surcharges of between 5% and 15%, depending on the age of the car. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds must be repatriated and collected through the commercial banks. No. Yes. For statistical purposes, all exports require the completion of a registration form specifying the quantity and c.i.f. or f.o.b. value of the export. Export taxes No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 815 Taxes collected through the exchange system Banks charge a commission of 0.125% on the collection of export proceeds —with a mini- mum the equivalent of $25 and a maximum of $300—when the LC is opened, and an addi- tional commission of 0.125% is collected when funds are received. Banks also charge a postage levy of Db 39,000. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Commercial banks charge a postage levy the equivalent of $2 for clients ($4 for others) on all transactions. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. n .a. n.a. Investments, excluding those related to the extraction of hydrocarbons and other mining industries, are permitted on the same basis as domestic investments. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position as of January 31, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1961. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Arabian riyal. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Effective January 1, 2003, the exchange rate of the riyal is pegged to the dollar at the rate of SRls 3.745 per $ 1. Previously, the riyal was pegged to the SDR at the rate of SRls 4.28225 per SDR 1, but a close relationship was maintained with the dollar. The riyal rate against the dollar is determined by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (SAMA), and has been stable since June 1986. Banks are permitted to charge up to 0.125% above the official rate. No. No. The commercial banking sector has an active forward market to cover exchange risks for up to 12 months. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Transactions with, and use of the currency of, Israel are prohibited. Effective January 1, 2003, the GCC Customs Union came into effect. Administration of control Foreign exchange controls are administered by the SAMA. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions In accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 1373, assets suspected of being involved in financing terrorism are liable to being frozen or seized. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade The Precious Metals and Stones Law stipulates the following: (1) imported gold coins must be purchased from either the country of origin or an accredited bank; (2) copies of gold coins that have been withdrawn from circulation must be identical to the original issue coin in size, weight, design, appearance, and purity and must be stamped with the trademark of their manufacturer or importer (original issue gold coins are exempt from this requirement); (3) imported gold bullion must bear a stamp verifying its purity; and (4) imported gold bullion of 18 karats or less must either be reexported or melted down before being returned to the importing party. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 816 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA Resident Accounts 817 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Limited import restrictions on a few commodities are maintained for religious, health, and security reasons. Open general licenses Yes. Other nontariff measures Trade with Israel is prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs Effective January 1, 2003, in accordance with the GCC Customs Union, a maximum GET of 5% is applied on most dutiable goods. For a few goods, tariff rates of 12% and 20% apply. For tobacco products, the tariff is 100%. Imports from GCC members are exempt from duties. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Reexport of certain imported items benefiting from government subsidies is prohibited. Effective October 31, 2003, a ban on exports of beef and camel products was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 818 SAUDI ARABIA Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Portfolio investment in shares of listed Saudi Arabian joint-stock companies is restricted to Saudi Arabian nationals, Saudi Arabian corporations and institutions, and citizens of the GCC. Indirect portfolio investment in shares issued by Saudi Arabian joint-stock compa- nies is allowed for foreign investors through mutual funds managed by Saudi banks. There are no controls on portfolio investment in government securities. Nonresidents must seek permission of the Minister of Commerce to sell or issue securities within the Kingdom. There are no controls on the repatriation of proceeds from the sale of securities issued by nonresidents. Residents may purchase or sell nonresident securities via brokerage services offered by domestic banks. For the sale of collective investment securities, where the underlying assets are shares of Saudi joint-stock companies, the regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents In the case of collective investments securities, where the underlying assets are shares of Saudi joint-stock companies, the regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA 8 19 Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Saudi Arabian banks must seek permission from the SAMA. To residents from nonresidents The SAMA's permission is required for riyal-denominated loans made through Saudi Ara- bian banks. Financial credits The SAMA's permission is required for all financial credit operations. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The SAMA's permission is required. To residents from nonresidents Financial institutions that give guarantees to government projects must appear on the SAMA-approved list. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia enjoy the same privileges as domestic capi- tal. The foreign investment law allows foreign investors to make direct investments in most of the country's economic sectors—with or without local participation —and provides for a 15% reduction in tax rates on foreign company profits exceeding SRls 100,000 (reducing the maximum to 30% from 45%). The tax rates were 20%, 25%, and 30% on various profit levels. On January 12, 2004, the 25% and 30% rates were eliminated, while tax rates of 30% and 80% were applied to investments in the natural gas and the oil and hydrocarbon sectors, respectively. The Supreme Economic Council has issued a list of economic sectors that remain off limits to foreign investors. The list is reviewed regularly and includes projects related to explora- tion, drilling, and production of gas and oil; production of military equipment and uni- forms; production of explosives for civil purposes; printing and publishing; telecommuni- cations services; education services; insurance and insurance-related services; land and air transportation; real estate investments in Mecca and Medina; services involving fishing; distribution services including wholesale and retail trade and commission agencies; and a few other sectors. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents In principle, the purchase of real estate is restricted to Saudi Arabian citizens, Saudi Arabian corporations, Saudi Arabian institutions, and citizens of the GCC. However, under the foreign investment law, foreign investors are allowed to own real estate as needed for their business, including housing for their staff. Nonresidents are allowed to purchase real estate for conducting real estate business in all cities, except for the holy cities of Mecca and Medina, provided that the investment in the real estate business is not less than SRls 30 million. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Prize earnings are transferable; gamb l ing is prohibited. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Saudi banks require the SAMA's permission to lend to nonresidents, except for interbank transactions and commercial credits. Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements For interbank deposits originating from foreign banks, only domestic currency deposits are subject to the SAMA's reserve requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 820 SAUDI ARABIA Investment regulations Abroad by banks Prior SAMA approval is required for Saudi banks to acquire shares in foreign companies. In banks by nonresidents Prior permission of the authorities is required. Open foreign exchange position limits Open positions are monitored via prudential reports. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement January 1. The currency to which the riyal is pegged was changed to the dollar from the SDR. Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments January 1. The GCC Customs Union came into operation. January 1. A common external tariff of 5% was established in accordance with the GCC Customs Union, and imports from GCC member states were made exempt from import duties. Exports and export proceeds October 31. The ban on exports of beef and camel products was lifted. Changes During 2004 Capital transactions Controls on direct investment January 12. The tax rate on foreign company profits was reduced to 20% generally, and the tax rates were set at 30% and 85% for investments in natural gas and in the oil and hydrocarbon sectors, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 6, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Senegal is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. Authorized banks charge an exchange commission of 2% on purchases and sales of euros and a freely determined commission on purchases and sales of foreign currencies not di- rectly related to transactions abroad. In addition, a commission of 0.25% (all of which must be surrendered to the treasury) is levied by banks on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover for payments related to im- ports and exports of goods and services. Forward cover may be provided only in the cur- rency of settlement stipulated in the commercial contract. Maturities must correspond to the due date of the import or export payment stipulated in the commercial contract. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts As Senegal is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made in euros or in the currency of any other Operations Account country. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Borrowing by residents from nonresidents must be channeled through authorized banks (whenever borrowed funds are used in the country), unless otherwise indicated by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). The CFA franc is the only legal tender in Senegal. Traveling residents must surrender to an authorized intermediary, within eight days of their return, any foreign banknotes or other means of payment denominated in foreign exchange valued in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 300,000. 821 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 822 SENEGAL Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. All purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A multilateral clearing agreement exists between the WAEMU members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered by the MEF, which delegates a part of its approval authority to the BCEAO-authorized banks. The Directorate of Money and Credit examines each request. Customs offices monitor outflows of foreign exchange and confirm imports and exports of goods. All exchange operations with foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the postal administration, or the BCEAO. The BCEAO and the MEF exercise exchange controls ex post. No supporting documents are required for transfers of up to CFAF 300,000. Yes. Yes. No. There are no restrictions on precious metal brokers. Imports and exports of gold originating in or bound to non-WAEMU countries require prior authorization from the MEF. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 500 grams. CFA franc banknotes may be exported freely by travelers. However, the suspension of BCEAO repurchases of exported banknotes continues. In addition, the exchange of BCEAO banknotes between authorized dealers and their correspondents outside the WAEMU is prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000 is allowed. In order to reexport foreign banknotes in excess of this ceiling, the traveler must provide documentation showing that the notes were imported or pur- chased with another means of payment recorded in the traveler's name or via a withdrawal from a nonresident account at a local bank. Banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO may be imported freely by residents. Nonresidents and residents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (ex- cept gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes and other means of payment denominated in foreign exchange exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must sell them to an authorized dealer within eight days. Nonresidents are required to make a written declaration of all means of payment they hold in excess of CFAF 1 million upon entry into or departure from Senegal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL Resident Accounts 823 Foreign exchange accounts permitted The opening of these accounts with authorized dealers in Senegal is permitted, but is sub- ject to prior approval by the MEF with the consent of the BCEAO. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Individuals traveling abroad may open bank accounts to receive foreign currency legitimately exported or earned during their stay abroad. However, residents are required to repatriate assets held in these accounts within 30 days of their return. In all other cases, the prior authorization of the MEF, with the agreement of the BCEAO, is required to open an account abroad. Nonresidents who become residents may maintain foreign exchange accounts abroad that were maintained while they were nonresidents. Transfers to these accounts require MEF authorization. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold these accounts with authorized financial institutions, but prior approval of the BCEAO is required. These accounts may not be credited with BCEAO banknotes or banknotes issued by central banks that maintain an Operations Account with the French Treasury. They may not be overdrawn without prior authorization of the MEF, which is given with the consent of the BCEAO. Funds may be transferred freely between nonresident accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident-owned foreign currency accounts may be debited freely for the purchase by nonresidents of foreign currencies on the off ic ial exchange market. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Advance payments for imports require authorization, and importers may not acquire for- eign exchange un t il the contractual date of the payments. Exchange authorization, invoices, and export-import cards are required. Import transactions originating in countries outside the CFA franc zone are required to be domiciled with authorized banks if imports exceed CFAF 5 million. An inspection is required for the quantity, quality, and price of goods exceeding CFAF 3 million f.o.b. Quantitative restrictions may be applied to products for public health and security reasons. Negative list Imports of narcotics and firearms are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). A statistical tax of 1%, a WAEMU community solidarity levy of 1%, and an ECOWAS levy of 0.5% are also applied. The maximum total import tariff is 22.5%. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 824 SENEGAL Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports, excluding those between WAEMU countries, must normally be collected within 120 days of shipment and repatriated through the BCEAO not later than one month after the due date. Residents are required to surrender to an authorized bank all foreign exchange proceeds from abroad or from nonresidents within one month after the due date. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements A customs declaration is required. Domiciliation Export licenses Export taxes All exports having a value in excess of CFAF 5 million must be domiciled, except those between WAEMU countries. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Transfers for invisible transactions to France, Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be made freely. Payments and receipts made by foreign ships in WAEMU ports or by WAEMU ships in foreign ports are considered current transactions. Only authorized intermediaries may engage in the following outward transactions, subject to documentary requirements: (1) transfers relating to contractual repayments on debts and short-term credits granted to finance commercial and industrial operations; (2) transfers of the proceeds from the liquidation of investments or the sale of securities by nonresidents; and (3) option purchase settlement. Any other operations outside this framework require authorization by the MEF. Current transactions and payments may be made freely by authorized banks, subject to documentary requirements. Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident travelers must present a travel document and a valid passport or a national identity card to an authorized intermediary bank or exchange bureau before foreign exchange will be issued. Residents traveling for tourism or business purposes to non-WAEMU countries are allowed to take out banknotes other than CFA franc notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 million a person; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out in the form of traveler's checks, certified checks, or other means of payment. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreigners working in Senegal may transfer their total net wages and salaries upon presentation of pay slips. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Credit card use abroad Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test SENEGAL 825 Only credit cards issued by specialized agencies may be used. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries must be repatriated. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Capital movements between WAEMU member countries are free of exchange controls. Outward capital transfers require MEF authorization except in the case of (1) transfers of amounts necessary for the contractual amortization of debts and the repayment of short- term loans granted to finance industrial and commercial operations; (2) transfers of pro- ceeds from the liquidation of investments or sale of foreign securities by nonresidents; and (3) payments for the purchase of options. Capital receipts from WAEMU countries, how- ever, are permitted freely. Foreign borrowing must be reported for statistical purposes. All investments abroad by residents of Senegal require prior authorization from the MEF; up to 75% of such investments may be financed with borrowing from abroad. Foreign bor- rowing must be reported for statistical purposes. The prior authorization of the RCPSFM is required for the following operations: issuing or marketing of securities and real assets of foreign entities, canvassing, and publicity or advertising for investment abroad. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents These purchases are subject to declaration to the MEF for statistical purposes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue or sale of securities by nonresidents is subject to prior authorization from the RCPSFM. Purchase abroad by residents These operations, as well as transfers of related funds, require the approval of the MEF. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no controls on the sale of securities for disinvestment purposes in the form of a transfer between a nonresident and a resident. However, settlement of such sales either by outward transfers or by crediting a nonresident's account requires an exchange authoriza- tion and approval from the MEF. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Sales abroad by residents are subject to prior declaration. On collective investment securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These transactions are subject to general regulations applicable to securities and invest- ments. Residents may freely purchase abroad or from nonresidents call or put options for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 826 SENEGAL Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents primary commodities or securities transactions. Residents may not purchase commodities or securities on foreign markets for delivery in a put option contract. Put options must be on assets that can be acquired locally by the resident seller for delivery abroad in execution of the contract. Commercial credits may be granted freely in connection with merchandise exports if the due date of the payment is within 120 days of the shipment of the merchandise. Commer- cial credits in connection with the provision of services may be granted freely by residents, and no limit is set for the payment due date. Nonresidents may grant freely commercial credits to resident institutions. Repayments of commercial credits are generally authorized, subject to the submission of supporting documents. These credits require the prior authorization of the MEF. Transfer abroad of the funds nec- essary to service these facilities requires an exchange authorization, subject to the approval of the MEF, and the submission of supporting documents. To residents from nonresidents There are no controls on these facilities. Funds required for servicing these facilities must be transferred abroad by an authorized intermediary bank. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions The granting of guarantees and sureties is subject to prior approval by the MEF. Transfer abroad of funds to service these facilities requires issuance of an exchange authorization, subject to approval of the MEF, and the submission of supporting documents. These facilities may be granted freely, although the funds required for servicing them must be transferred abroad by an authorized intermediary. If, however, these transactions take place between a direct investment company resident in Senegal and its parent company located abroad, they are considered to be direct investments and therefore require prior declaration to the MEF. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered direct investment unless it exceeds 20% of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. All investments abroad by Senegalese residents, including investments through foreign companies under the direct or indirect control of residents of Senegal and investments by foreign branches or subsidiaries of companies established in Senegal, require the prior authorization of the MEF; up to 75% of such investments may be financed by foreign borrowing. No authorization is required for the purchase of foreign securities if the RCPSFM has authorized their issue or marketing in WAEMU countries. Foreign direct investments in Senegal, including those made by companies in Senegal that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in Senegal, must be reported to the MEF for statistical purposes. The liquidation of investments by residents abroad must be reported to the MEF. The rein- vestment of the proceeds of such liquidation is subject to the prior authorization of the MEF. If the reinvestment has not been authorized, the proceeds of the liquidation must be repatriated within one month through an authorized intermediary. The sale of foreign in- vestments in Senegal is allowed, but must be reported for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents These purchases require the prior authorization of the MEF. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases for purposes other than direct investment in a business, branch, or company are allowed. They require a declaration to the MEF for statistical purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents SENEGAL 827 Sales between nonresidents and residents require the submission of supporting documenta- tion to the authorized intermediary that handles the settlement and must be declared to the MEF. Unless prior authorization is received from the MEF, capital movements between residents and nonresidents must be made through the central bank, the postal and telecommunica- tions administration, or an authorized intermediary bank. Loans of any kind, franc overdrafts, and, in general, any advances granted to nonresidents by authorized intermediaries are subject to prior MEF authorization with the agreement of the BCEAO. To residents from nonresidents These transactions may be made freely, but they are subject to declaration for statistical purposes to the MEF when granted and when repaid. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Inheritances and dowries are generally authorized. Gifts and endowments, however, are subject to prior MEF authorization. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are subject to declaration. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants who have resident status must obtain the prior authorization of the MEF to settle debts contracted abroad wh i le they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are subject to presentation of supporting documents to the MEF. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad For statistical purposes, these transactions must be declared to the MEF when they are granted and when they are repaid. Banks and other financial institutions may open accounts with their correspondent banks to settle operations for their own account or for their customers. However, banks may not keep amounts exceeding their current requirements in these accounts. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) These operations are allowed in the case of commercial or financial credits. Prior MEF authorization is required for loans and financial credits. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Credit controls Investment regulations These purchases require prior RCPSFM authorization. Loans of any kind, franc overdrafts, and, in general, any advances granted to nonresidents are subject to prior MEF authorization, with the agreement of the BCEAO. These claims are included in the external position of banks and financial institutions, which is subject to special monitoring. Yes. The regulations governing direct investment apply. Open foreign exchange position limits These positions, which require an exceptional waiver, are not subject to prudential ratios. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 828 SENEGAL Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the insurance code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets (CIMA). Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally The CIMA code in effect in Senegal includes specific rules on the use of the technical reserves of insurance companies. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO (Position as of February 29, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 15, 2002. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currencies of Serbia and Montenegro are the d inar in the Republic of Serbia and the euro in the Republic of Montenegro. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy In the Republic of Serbia, the exchange rate of the dinar against the euro is set at the f ix ing session held at the Inter-Bank Foreign Exchange Market on the basis of supply and de- mand. This rate represents the o f f ic ial rate of the dinar against the euro, and it applies to transactions conducted at the fixing session. The National Bank of Serbia (NBS) intervenes in the fixing session for the purpose of influencing the movement of the exchange rate. The off ic ial rate of the dinar vis-a-vis other currencies traded in the domestic foreign exchange market is determined on the basis of their cross-rates vis-a-vis the euro. Purchases and sales of foreign exchange outside the fixing session take place within margins of ±0.3% for non- cash transactions and, effective February 25, 2004, ±0.7% (previously, ±0.6%) for cash transactions. The NBS charges a commission of 0.5% on sales of foreign exchange and, effective March 1, 2003, a commission of 0.15% on sales of convertible foreign currencies (banknotes), except for dollars, for which the commission is 2%. Effective March 31, 2003, the NBS began to trade in Bosnia and Herzegovina convertible marka, Czech koruny, Hungarian forint, Polish zlotys, and Slovenian tolars on the foreign exchange cash market, with a commission of 2.5% on purchases only. Banks are free to fix their own buying and selling rates for foreign exchange on the basis of supply and demand, but must observe the rates prevailing in the international market. Au- thorized banks may buy and sell foreign exchange on the interbank market outside the fix- ing session at mutually agreed rates, and they may set the commissions for these services freely. n.a. If the exported goods or services are contracted, and payments made in convertible foreign currency, juridical persons are entitled to a refund of customs and other import duties, as well as to other incentive payments. For exports of goods, the calculation is based on the free Serbia and Montenegro border parity; for exports of services, the calculation is based on the amount after deduction of foreign costs. The rates applied for refund of customs duties vary for d i f fe rent types of economic activities, but range from 0.23% to 2.96%. An enterprise that has collected payment for exports of merchandise is entitled to a partial refund of freight paid for ra i l, maritime, or air transportation from the Serbia and Montene- gro border to the destination at rates ranging from 1.5% to 2.5%. Additional incentives are offered for certain agriculture and food industry exports, at rates ranging from 10% to 20%. Forward exchange market Forward purchases and sales of foreign exchange are permitted, provided that their terms of delivery are more than two working days but no more than 365 days from the contract date. 829 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 830 SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Payments for imports and proceeds from exports of goods and services may not be made or received in foreign banknotes. Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Credit operations The extension of loans between residents and nonresidents in dinars is not permitted. Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments among residents in Serbia must be effected in dinars. In exceptional cases, pay- ments may be effected in foreign exchange according to the Foreign Exchange Law. Payments arrangements Administration of control No. Exchange control in Serbia is carried out by the state authorities and the NBS. Natural and juridical persons, entrepreneurs, and agencies and organizations are subject to these controls. The Law on the National Bank of Serbia (NBS), which became effective on July 18, 2003, makes the NBS an autonomous institution of the monetary system of Serbia; the sole bank of issue; and responsible for the conduct of monetary policy, the stability of the currency, financial discipline, controls over banks and other financial organizations, and the perform- ance of other operations prescribed by law. Based on the Law on the NBS and the Law on Banks and Other Financial Organizations, the NBS is authorized to issue and revoke licenses to banks and other financial organiza- tions, and the NBS is authorized to adopt the regulations necessary for implementing the Law on Banks and Other Financial Organizations. The Foreign Exchange Inspectorate of Serbia exercises exchange control over the foreign trade operations of residents and nonresidents. Customs authorities control the export and import of foreign and local currencies, securi- ties, and gold taken out of or brought into Serbia or transmitted by mail or other means. They also control the export of foreign exchange by authorized banks. In Serbia, exchange operations may be conducted by any authorized commercial bank or authorized dealer, provided that they meet reporting requirements. Effective January 1, 2003, commercial banks were allowed to effect all domestic payments for services. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears Official Private An agreement has been reached with Paris Club creditors to reduce the debt to official bi- lateral creditors. Discussions are ongoing with official bilateral and London Club creditors to obtain debt relief on terms similar to those granted by Paris Club creditors. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Only gold producers may engage in domestic trade in unrefined gold. The NBS may export both coins and bullion; for others, an export-import license is required. Residents other than gold producers and banks authorized to engage in foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 831 exchange transactions—who are allowed to export gold bullion and gold coins, respectively—may export gold coins and bullion only with NBS permission. Exports of gold may be prohibited for balance of payments considerations. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The import and export of dinars and foreign currency are allowed pursuant to the condi- tions and procedures for personal and physical transfer of legal tender to and from abroad. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Domestic and foreign persons may take out banknotes up to 120,000 dinars a person in denominations of 1,000 dinars or smaller. The NBS reserves the right to export banknotes for purposes of sale to other banks. These exports are permitted for numismatic purposes—in which case up to three sets of all banknote denominations for each approval may be exported—and to allow the testing of automatic teller machines, provided that the firms guarantee the banknotes will be returned when the testing is completed or, at the latest, within three months after the bills are received. To take out NBS-issued commemorative coins (limited to three sets), domestic persons must have written permission from the NBS, and foreign persons must complete a customs certificate and present an invoice from a licensed supplier. Resident natural persons may transfer abroad foreign currency and traveler's checks up to the equivalent of €2,000 a trip, in aggregate. Foreign individuals and citizens of Serbia and Montenegro working abroad on a temporary basis may take abroad foreign banknotes up to the amount they had declared upon entering the country. They may also take out foreign currencies from their own foreign exchange accounts. An authorized bank may, subject to NBS approval, export foreign currency for replenishing its account with a foreign correspondent bank. Approval is granted if the bank in question is authorized to perform payment operations only or to perform payment operations and credit transactions with foreign countries, and if the NBS has not restricted such operations of the bank in question. Authorized banks are obliged to furnish the NBS with a copy of the prescribed documents as evidence of payment within 10 days of exporting foreign currency. These documents must be certified by the relevant customs authority on the date of export. Furthermore, a statement of the authorized bank's foreign account must be submitted as proof that the approved amount of foreign currency was deposited to replenish the account. Domestic and foreign persons may import up to 120,000 dinars a person a trip in denomi- nations of 1,000 dinars or smaller. In exceptional cases, foreign persons may import domestic banknotes in amounts and de- nominations larger than those specified above, provided that the banknotes were purchased at a foreign bank and that a purchase receipt is presented to the customs office for inspec- tion upon entering the country. The NBS may import domestic banknotes that were exported for the purpose of sale to foreign banks. Foreign currency Imports of foreign currency notes are not limited but must be reported to customs. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Resident natural and juridical persons may hold foreign exchange accounts freely, which they may credit or debit for all authorized foreign exchange transactions. Resident government agencies and organizations may hold foreign exchange accounts with the NBS only. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 832 SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO Held abroad Approval required Banks may hold foreign exchange with authorized banks, the NBS, and the Central Securities Depository only. Yes. Resident juridical persons, including representative offices of enterprises abroad, may hold foreign exchange in an account with a bank abroad with the approval of the NBS. Resident natural persons are not allowed to hold accounts abroad, with the exception of foreign citizens who have resided in Serbia for more than one year and persons employed in diplomatic representative offices abroad and their families. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresident natural and juridical persons may hold foreign exchange accounts with author- ized banks in the form of demand and time deposits under the conditions prescribed by the NBS. Deposits may be held in currencies traded on the domestic foreign exchange market. Deposits to foreign currency accounts may be made with transfers or, in certain cases, with cash. Account holders may use the foreign exchange in their accounts to make dinar payments in Serbia, to transfer foreign exchange abroad, and to make foreign exchange payments abroad or domestically, in accordance with existing regulations. Domestic payments, collections, and transfers in foreign currency involving these accounts are permitted only in cases specified in the Foreign Exchange Law (e.g., purchase and sale of goods at consignment warehouses and duty-free shops). A bank may not cancel or return to the foreign exchange account any dinar disbursements effected from foreign currency accounts of foreign persons. Citizens of Serbia and Montenegro with dual citizenship and who have resided abroad for more than one year are considered nonresidents. Nonresidents may hold domestic currency and foreign exchange accounts with authorized banks in the form of sight deposits and time deposits. The NBS may specify conditions regarding the types of funds that may be accepted as deposits. Nonresidents may deposit domestic currency acquired through authorized transactions in accounts with authorized banks. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Imports and Import Payments No. No. Payments for imports of goods and services are free of restrictions, provided that documen- tary proof is submitted. There are no restrictions on advance payments for import of goods or services, but if im- ports do not take place, the foreign exchange must be returned within eight working days from the contracted final date. Imports with a contracted period exceeding 90 days from the date of advance payment are deemed to be credit transactions, must be registered with the NBS, and are subject to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 833 provisions on procedures, time limits, registration, and reporting, as specified in decisions based on the Foreign Exchange Law and the Foreign Credit Transactions Law. A resident may import books, magazines, newspapers, and other publications within 12 months from the date of advance payment without NBS approval. Payments for imports may be effected only through authorized banks. Residents are al- lowed to make payments for imports with their own foreign exchange funds held with an authorized bank or by purchasing foreign exchange on the foreign exchange market without restriction through an authorized bank. Residents are obligated to provide the bank with the standard import documentation. Preshipment inspection Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Licenses are required for 480 (or 1.7% of total) tariff items. Licenses are required for ar- maments (including firearms, sport and hunting arms, and ammunition), explosives and raw materials used in explosives, military equipment, certain precious metals, some heavy met- allurgical products, and goods that are subject to international agreements. Addictive drugs are subject to a special set of import licenses. An estimated 98.3% of all tariff items may be imported freely. Imports of used vehicles, construction and mining equipment more than six years old, and hazardous waste materials are prohibited. The government does not issue specific licenses with value or volume quotas. Certain kinds of goods originating in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are quantitatively re- stricted, according to the type of license; these restrictions are agreed upon in the trade agreement signed between the two countries. Import licensing requirements and quotas apply to specific steel products. The Republic of Montenegro also issues contingency licenses for agricultural products and selected appliances. On July 31, 2003, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro reached an agreement harmonizing the ir trade, customs, and indirect tax regimes. As a result, all export and import quotas in the two republics were eliminated. Previously, some 40 tariff items were subject to quantitative and value quotas. The import tariff schedule has a maximum import duty of 30% and a simple average rate of under 10%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Residents must collect receipts from export of goods and services during the contract pe- riod, but not later than eight working days from the expiration date of the contract. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of goods and services with a payments collection contract period of more than 90 days is deemed to be a credit transaction, must be registered with the NBS, and is sub- ject to provisions on procedures, time limits, registration, and reporting as specified in deci- sions based on the Foreign Exchange Law and the Foreign Credit Transactions Law. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Domiciliation On July 31, 2003, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro reached an agreement harmonizing their trade, customs, and indirect tax regimes. As a result, all export and import quotas in the two republics were eliminated. Receipts from exports of goods and services must be effected through authorized banks in Serbia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 834 SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses Without quotas Out of the total 8,552 tariff items, the free export regime applies to 8,458 items (or 98.9%). On June 6, 2003, the Republic of Serbia adopted temporary export controls on corn, flour, raw hides, and wheat to prevent shortages in the aftermath of a severe drought in 2003. The export license under scheme D applies to 94 (or 1.1% of total) tariff items. These are required for armaments (including firearms, sport and hunting arms, and ammunition), explosives and raw materials used in explosives, military equipment, historic pieces of art, certain precious metals, and goods that are subject to international agreements. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Documentary requirements must be satisfied. Payments for travel Payments in foreign banknotes and traveler's checks are limited to the equivalent of €2,000. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Personal payments Payments in foreign banknotes and traveler's checks are limited to the equivalent of €2,000. Quantitative limits Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test All transactions require documentary evidence, except for transfers of less than the equivalents of €5,000 a month for fam i ly support, €3,000 for gifts, and €500 for fam i ly maintenance. Foreign workers' wages These transactions may be made freely after payment of the appropriate taxes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad The use of credit cards is restricted to current transactions. Prior approval Quantitative limits Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements The regulations governing exports and export proceeds apply. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions The Securities Market Law (Official Gazette of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, No. 65/02) became effective in the Republic of Serbia on June 1, 2003. Controls on capital and money market instruments Under the Securities and Other Financial Instruments Market Law, the Securities Commit- tee supervises at the national level the activities of security market participants. The Banks and Other Financial Institutions Law sets forth the jurisdiction for and the procedures of supervision over banks' activities in the money market. On capital market securities The Securities Committee regulates trading in shares and long-term securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 835 Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are permitted, except for short-term domestic securities and shares of domestic companies involved in weapons production/trading activities, unless the majority of shares of a joint-venture company is owned by a resident/investor. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are implicitly permitted under the Securities Market Law, but are regu- lated by the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Law. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not explicitly limited by the Securities Market Law, but are con- trolled by the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Law. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not controlled, but procedures are regulated by the provisions of the Company Act. Bonds or other debt securities The Securities Committee controls the issuing of and trading in long-term debt instruments. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not explicitly controlled by the Securities Market Law, but are regu- lated by the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Law. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not explicitly controlled by the Securities Market Law, but are regu- lated by the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Law. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not controlled by any law, but are regulated by the provisions of the Company Act. On money market instruments The Securities Market Law regulates tradable instruments with maturities of less than one year. The issuance and trading of sovereign securities are regulated by the Budget Law and relevant governmental decisions. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are prohibited. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not explicitly controlled, but are regulated by the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Law. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not explicitly controlled, but are regulated by the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Law, with the exception of purchases by commercial banks and the NBS. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are prohibited. Controls on derivatives and other instruments In accordance with the Foreign Exchange Law, only authorized banks may make payments for purchases of foreign securities (including short-term securities) in international and domestic markets. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are not permitted to purchase domestic short-term securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents In accordance with NBS regulations, residents are not permitted to invest in foreign in- vestment funds. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits The Foreign Credit Transaction Law (Official Gazette of the Federal Republic of Yugosla- via, Nos. 42/92, 24/94, and 28/96) regulates foreign credit transactions; these must be regis- tered with the NBS. By residents to nonresidents Credits for exports of goods and services are allowed without restriction. To residents from nonresidents Residents may obtain credits abroad for registered business activities. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These transactions are permitted only out of profits earned abroad, in accordance with the provisions of the law regulating foreign trade operations. To residents from nonresidents Residents may borrow funds from abroad to pay for imports of equipment and intermediate goods and services and for financing the construction of investment projects. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 836 SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO Guarantees, sureties, and f inanc ial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment There are controls on the borrowing of funds for other purposes. Effective December 27, 2003, these credit transactions are allowed up to €600 million, in accordance with NBS conditions and the Foreign Credit Transaction Law and provided that the terms of the cred- its, for 2004, are for a period longer than 13 months. Residents may issue guarantees and other forms of sureties to foreign persons engaged in similar business activities for which they are registered. Residents may freely receive guarantees and other sureties from nonresidents engaged in the business activities for which they are registered. Investments may be in the form of (1) foreign exchange; (2) physical assets; (3) intellectual property rights; or (4) securities and other property rights. Direct investments abroad are free of controls, provided that the transaction in question has been registered with the relevant agency in the foreign country and the investment is executed in accordance with existing regulations. However, these transactions may be prohibited or controlled if they are deemed to disrupt the balance of payments. A nonresident foreign investor may invest in assets in a domestic enterprise to acquire a share in the fixed capital of a domestic enterprise. A foreign investor may exchange estab- lished claims against a share of capital and/or stock of a debtor company. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Proceeds from liquidation of direct investment may be transferred abroad without control, provided that all tax liabilities have been settled. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Residents are not allowed to acquire ownership of real estate abroad unless a reciprocal agreement has been reached between the country in which the real estate is located and Serbia and Montenegro. This restriction does not apply to government agencies and diplo- matic and consular offices abroad and their employees. Citizens of Serbia and Montenegro who have resided abroad for more than one year may purchase real estate only through a nonresident foreign exchange account opened with an authorized bank. In Montenegro, nonresidents (including its citizens who have resided abroad for more than one year) may not purchase or acquire land in prohibited zones, such as national parks and border areas. Purchases of real estate by nonresidents from a country that has not concluded a reciprocal agreement with Serbia and Montenegro are prohibited. Proceeds from these transactions may be transferred abroad freely, provided that all tax liabilities have been settled. Loans Resident natural persons are not allowed to lend to or borrow from nonresidents. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents A resident may transfer monetary gifts abroad up to the equivalent of €3,000. To residents from nonresidents These transactions are subject to anti-money laundering regulations. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Emigrants may take abroad up to the equivalent of €2,000 with them; any remaining funds must be transferred through the banking system. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Earnings from lotteries may be transferred abroad after payment of all tax obligations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 837 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Only banks that have received NBS authorization to conduct foreign credit operations may execute credit agreements with foreign entities. These transactions must meet the require- ments set by the regulations governing banking operations. Maintenance of accounts abroad Authorized banks may hold foreign currency abroad only in accounts with banks. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Credit transactions in dinars between residents and nonresidents are prohibited. Authorized banks may lend abroad if the loan is registered with the NBS. Lending locally in foreign exchange Authorized banks may extend credit in foreign currency to resident natural entrepreneurs and juridical persons only for payments for imports of goods and services. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Purchases are regulated by the. Law on the Settlement of Public Debt of the Federal Repub- lic of Yugoslavia Arising From the Citizens' Foreign Exchange Savings. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements In the Republic of Serbia, reserves are required against all foreign exchange deposits made before July 2001 and against foreign exchange deposits made thereafter by enterprises. Post-June 2001 deposits made by individuals are not subject to this reserve requirement. In the Republic of Montenegro, the reserve requirement for accounts denominated in euros or in foreign currency is 23%. Liquid asset requirements In the Republic of Serbia, foreign exchange deposits made by individuals after June 2001 are subject to a 50% foreign exchange deposit liquidity requirement. Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Credit controls are enforced in accordance with the Law on Banks and Other Financial Organizations (Official Gazette of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, No. 39/02). NBS approval is required. In banks by nonresidents NBS approval is required for acquisition of more than 15% of the share capital of a bank. Open foreign exchange position limits A bank's open foreign exchange position is limited to 30% of its capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Currently, there are no limits, but these transactions are regulated under the Foreign Ex- change Law. Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Currently, there are no limits, but these transactions are regulated under the Foreign Ex- change Law. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition These are currently not regulated by the Securities Market Law and its by-laws for f inanc ial market intermediaries other than banks, but the banking law provisions apply to authorized banks. Other controls imposed by securities laws Securities trading must take place on an organized exchange, with the exception of secon- dary trading in fixed income securities. Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 2003 March L The NBS began charging a commission of 0.15% on its sale of convertible for- eign currencies (banknotes), except for the dollar, for which the charge is 2%. March 31. The NBS began to trade Czech koruny, Hungarian forint, Polish zlotys, Bosnia and Herzegovina convertible marka, and Slovenian tolars on the foreign exchange market, with a commission of 2.5% on purchases only. January L Commercial banks were allowed to effect all domestic payments for services. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution _838 SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO Imports and import payments July 18. The Law on the National Bank of Serbia came into effect, making the NBS an autonomous institution of the monetary system, and granting it the responsibility over monetary policy and banking supervision. July 31. The Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro reached an agreement harmonizing their trade, customs, and indirect tax regimes. As a result, all export and im- port quotas in the two republics were eliminated. Exports and export proceeds June 6. The Republic of Serbia adopted temporary export controls on corn, flour, raw hides, and wheat to prevent shortages in the aftermath of a severe drought in 2003. July 31. The Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro reached an agreement harmonizing their trade, customs, and indirect tax regimes. As a result, all export and im- port quotas in the two republics were eliminated. Capital transactions June I. In the Republic of Serbia, the Securities Market Law took effect. Controls on credit operations December 27. In accordance with the Foreign Credit Transactions Law, credits to residents by nonresidents for purposes other than for imports of certain goods and services, and fi- nancing of construction of investment projects abroad, were allowed up to €600 m i l l ion, provided that the terms of the credits, for 2004, are for a period longer than 13 months. Exchange arrangement February 25. The NBS widened the margin between the buying and selling rates for foreign exchange transactions in cash to ±0.7% from ±0.6%. Changes During 2004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 3, 1978. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles rupee. Various commemorative gold coins issued on several occasions since 1976 are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The Seychelles rupee is pegged to a weighted basket of currencies of Seychelles' main trading and tourism partners, with the weights as follows: the euro (37.7%), the Japanese yen (2.7%), the pound sterling (15.7%), the Singapore dollar (7.7%), the South African rand (10.5%), and the U.S. dollar (25.7%). Effective July 1, 2003, the CBS imposes an appreciation limit of SR 5.50 per US$1. Exchange rates for various currencies are quoted on the basis of their New York closing rates for the U.S. dollar on the previous day, using the U.S. dollar rate for the Seychelles rupee as derived from the fixed parity to the currency basket. The Central Bank of Seychelles (CBS) circulates these rates daily to the commer- cial banks. The CBS charges a commission of 0.125% on purchases and 0.875% on sales of euros, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. The commercial banks are authorized to deal in pounds sterling and other currencies at rates based on the exchange rates circulated daily by the CBS for the respective currencies. Other authorized dealers include casinos, guest houses, hotels, restaurants, self-catering establishments, tour operators, travel agents, car rental services, boat charters, shipping agents, and ship chandlers. These dealers are restricted to buying only in the course of their licensed activity. They must sell an allocated percentage of their foreign currency proceeds to commercial banks. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Yes. Nonresidents are required to pay for selected services in foreign currency. Yes. Yes. Regional arrangements Seychelles is a participant in the COMESA and RIFF. 839 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 840 SEYCHELLES Administration of control The exchange control authorities are the CBS and the Ministry of Economic Planning (MEP). The MEP partially controls foreign trade through a mechanism of import/export and price controls. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold freely in any form, except for dealings in gold trade bullion, which are restricted to authorized dealers. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency The maximum amount of domestic currency that travelers may take out of the country is SR 2,000. Travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency. The maximum amount of domestic currency that travelers may bring into the country is SR 2,000. Foreign currency Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Yes. n.a. n.a. Yes. Yes. No. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly SEYCHELLES 841 An import permit is required. Importers other than individuals are required to obtain import licenses from the Seychelles Licensing Authority, in accordance with objective criteria. In addition, for each shipment of goods, an importer must apply to the Import Control Division of the MEP for a permit, the granting of which is discretionary. Permits are normally not granted for used vehicles and some nonessential goods. Imports are subject to taxes of up to 200%, with most goods subject to rates ranging between 5% and 30%. The Seychelles Marketing Board has a monopoly on imports of rice, sugar, meat, vegeta- bles, margarine, tomato sauce, animal feed, oil, coffee and tea, fruits, flour, and chili sauce. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All export proceeds must be transacted through domestic commercial banks, which are the only authorized sellers of foreign exchange. Surrender requirements are 45% of net pro- ceeds, and are mostly earmarked to finance essential imports and debt-service payments. The remainder is used by commercial banks in accordance with the priority listing. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Residents must surrender the proceeds to a commercial bank within 90 days of the transaction. Restrictions on use of funds Receipts may be disposed freely, except for dividend remittances and transfers. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 842 SEYCHELLES Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements No. No. No. Foreign investment is permitted freely, provided that such investment does not involve ownership of land. No. Yes. Yes. No. The liquidity reserve ratio for commercial banks is 50% of their deposit liabilities. The cash reserve ratio is 2.5%. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Exchange arrangement July 1. An exchange rate appreciation limit of SR 5.50 per US$1 was introduced. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 14, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leonean leone. Exchange rate structure Dual. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the leone is determined in the interbank market. Commercial banks and licensed foreign exchange bureaus may buy and sell foreign exchange with customers and trade freely among themselves or with the Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL). The BSL de- termines the exchange rate to be used in official transactions, including the rate for customs valuation purposes, which is based on the weighted average mid-rate of purchases and sales made by commercial banks and foreign exchange bureaus during the last five business days and at the weekly auction. The official buying and selling rates are set within ±1% of the official mid-rate. Foreign exchange bureaus are limited to spot transactions and are not allowed to sell traveler's checks. Effective January 1, 2004, Sierra Leone participates in the W-ERM II of the WAMZ and maintains the spot exchange rate between the Sierra Leonean leone and the dollar within margins of ±15% around the central rate of Le 2,562.18 per $1. However, the BSL has yet to implement these measures. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments for imports may be made in leones and credited to an external account in the currency of the exporting country, in pounds sterling, or in dollars. Receipts from exports to countries other than China may be obtained in leones from an external account in the currency of the importing country or in any specified convertible currency. Yes. Yes. Yes. The MOF formulates exchange control policy in consultation with the BSL, but the day-to- day administration of exchange control is carried out by the BSL with the assistance of the commercial banks. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. 843 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 844 SIERRA LEONE Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, or sell certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coins. Residents are not allowed to hold gold in the form of bars or dust without a valid miner's or dealer's license. Controls on external trade Exports of gold require a license. Imports of gold in any form, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, require an individual import license. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted On leaving Sierra Leone, travelers may take out up to Le 50,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency notes they declared on arrival. Employees on official business may take out up to the amount of the per diem allowance provided for that purpose. Resident travelers may take out up to the equivalent of $5,000 without restriction. Residents should declare on departure foreign exchange in excess of $5,000 with supporting documents. The importation of domestic banknotes is limited to Le 50,000 for each traveler. Commercial banks (authorized dealers) are allowed to import foreign currency to meet their operational requirements. Resident Accounts Residents are permitted to maintain foreign currency accounts denominated in any con- vertible currency. These accounts, for which minimum balances vary from bank to bank, earn interest at a rate determined by the commercial banks. They may be credited with funds transferred from abroad, and balances on these accounts may be converted into leones to meet the account holder's local expenditures. Transfers abroad of balances in foreign currency accounts are permitted for current international transactions without prior approval from the BSL, subject to fu lf i l l ing the regulations governing the transactions. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. No. n.a. n.r. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts The regulations governing resident accounts apply. All documented inward remittances may also be transferred abroad without reference to the BSL. Accounts in leones held on behalf of diplomatic missions, UN agencies, and their accred- ited staff are designated as external accounts. Leone deposits into external accounts are vetted by the BSL, and credit balances of the accounts may be used for external payments without reference to the BSL. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts may be converted into foreign currency, but approval is required for capital transactions. Approval required Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 845 Blocked accounts Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. n.r. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures All applications for purchases of foreign exchange to pay for imported goods must be sub- mitted to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone and supported by the following documents: completed exchange control form, original pro forma invoice, final invoice, original bill of lading/airway b i l l, and preshipment inspection certificate. All goods imported into Sierra Leone, except petroleum and goods specifically exempted by the MOF, are subject to preshipment inspection and price verification by an international company appointed by the government. Goods to be financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources do not require LCs established with a local commercial bank. Negative list All goods, except military goods, may be imported freely without a license. Import taxes and/or tariffs The customs tariff rates are 20% on most food items, 5% on raw materials and petroleum products, 15% on rice and baby foods, 5% and 30% on other food items, and 30% on luxury consumer goods. Other goods are subject to a sales tax of 17.5% of their c.i.f. value. State import monopoly n.a. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Exporters must repatriate export proceeds within 90 days of the date of export (approval of the BSL is required for an extension beyond 90 days). Proceeds from exports of diamonds that were prefinanced from external sources are not subject to the repatriation requirement. Financing requirements n.r. Documentation requirements All exporters of commercial goods are required to complete export forms that must be endorsed by the exporter's commercial bank. Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes All exports, except for those exempted by the MOF, are subject to preshipment inspection and price verification, which is undertaken by an inspection company appointed by the government. Exporters who are subject to inspection must pay an export inspection fee of 1% before clearing their goods through customs. Licenses are required only for exports of gold and diamonds; these export licenses, valid for one year, are issued by the Department of Mines. Exports of the following articles are prohibited: those containing more than 25% silver; those manufactured or produced more than 75 years before the date of exportation; those mounted or set with diamonds, precious stones, or pearls (excluding personal jewelry or ornaments up to a value not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000); postage stamps of philatelic interest; and works of art. Yes. Licensed exporters of diamonds are subject to an export tax of 3%, based on the value in dollars of diamonds exported. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Authority to provide foreign exchange for legitimate expenses is delegated to the commer- cial banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 846 SIERRA LEONE Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Foreign workers' wages Prior approval The limit is the equivalent of $5,000. Applications for travel allowances in excess of the limit must be supported by travel documents, e.g., a ticket or passport. Information is not available on the payment of pensions. Commercial banks may make remittances in favor of nonresident employees of international institutions, agencies, or foreign nongovernmental organizations only up to the remuneration package and in favor of other nonresidents when requests for such payments are supported by a valid work permit, a remuneration package agreement, and a tax clearance certificate. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents BSL approval is required before a security registered in or outside Sierra Leone may be transferred to or purchased by a nonresident. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents Permission of the BSL is required both to purchase securities abroad and to transfer funds abroad to effect the purchase. Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments All funds accruing on such investment, as well as the capital upon termination of the in- vestment, must be repatriated to Sierra Leone. Capital related to securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad with- out permission; for permission to be given, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the ftinds brought into Sierra Leone. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases funded with domestic resources are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require BSL approval. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Purchases with funds brought from abroad are allowed. BSL certification is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments These instruments are not yet available in Sierra Leone. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 847 Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Generally, permission of the BSL is required for the granting of any loan in Sierra Leone, whether by way of advance or bank overdraft, to nonresident entities. Permission of the BSL is also required for nonresident entities to borrow outside Sierra Leone. In addition to the above documentation, the proposed arrangement for repayment should be provided. To residents from nonresidents Prior approval of the BSL is required. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Prior approval of the BSL should be obtained for the giving or renewal of any guarantee or similar undertaking, and the resident's exposure must be fu l ly covered by the nonresident. To residents from nonresidents Prior approval of the BSL is required for these transactions and for the transfer of funds to service the facilities. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Investments abroad are not allowed. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Yes. No. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are prohibited. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase real estate with funds transferred through authorized dealers with proper documentation. Controls on personal capital transactions n.r. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Commercial banks should not hold more than 25% of their deposit liabilities in foreign currency. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks do not engage in foreign lending, and there are no regulations in this respect, Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks do not engage in this lending. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. n.a. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2004 Exchange arrangement January 1. Sierra Leone began participating in the W-ERM II of the WAMZ. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position as of December 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: November 9, 1968. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Singapore is the Singapore dollar. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable at par without charge in Singapore and Brunei Darussalam. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The authorities manage the exchange rate as an intermediate target, allowing the Singapore dollar to fluctuate within an undisclosed target band. The stance of the exchange rate policy is announced every six months in the Monetary Policy Statement, typically in terms of changes to the slope of the policy band. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks may hedge their exchange risk through a forward foreign exchange transaction. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. Singapore is a member of ASEAN. Singapore has no exchange controls, although the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) retains responsibility for exchange control matters. Measures have been taken to freeze accounts and the assets of, and block transactions with, listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. These measures were taken in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. In accordance with UN sanctions Singapore observes the import and export prohibitions covered by the UN Security Council resolutions. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Yes. Resident Accounts 848 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE 849 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports n.a. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures A few imports are controlled for health, safety, or security reasons. Licenses are required for imports of rice. Import taxes and/or tariffs Very few imports are subject to duty. Singapore is a party to the CEPT scheme for the AFTA. Customs duties are levied on imports of beer, stout, samsoo, and medical samsoo. Excise duties are levied on imports of liquor, tobacco, petroleum, and automobiles. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for certain items, such as substances that deplete the stratospheric ozone layer and rubber. Certain exports (e.g., textiles and clothing) are subject to quantitative restrictions and other nontariff barriers in effect in importing countries. n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 850 SINGAPORE Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may issue equity shares. When the Singapore dollar proceeds of an initial public offering are to be used offshore, these proceeds must be converted into foreign currency before their remittance abroad. Nonresidents may issue bonds. When the Singapore dollar proceeds are to be used offshore, they must be swapped or converted into foreign currency before their remittance abroad. All rated and unrated foreign entities are allowed to issue Singapore dollar bonds. In the case of unrated foreign entities, the investor base is restricted to sophisticated investors only. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investment in residential and other properties, including vacant land, landed residential property, and residential property in a building of less than six stories, requires government approval. Foreigners may, however, freely purchase residential units in buildings of six or more stories and in approved condominium developments, excluding public housing. Development of land for residential purposes that has been zoned or approved for industrial or commercial use also requires government approval. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Singapore's policy of discouraging the internationalization of the Singapore dollar has eased significantly in recent years, and only two policy restrictions remain. First, financial institutions in Singapore may not extend Singapore dollar credit facilities exceeding S$5 million to any nonresident financial entity for speculative activities in the foreign ex- change market. Singapore dollar facilities include loans, contingent credit lines, and foreign exchange swaps involving a spot sale of Singapore dollars to a nonresident in a first leg. Second, nonresident financial entities must convert Singapore dollar proceeds obtained ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE 851 from Singapore dollar loans, equity listings, or bond issuance into foreign currency before using them to finance activities outside of Singapore. Foreign currency deposits of ACU member banks accepted by domestic banks are not subject to reserve requirements. Foreign currency deposits of ACU member banks accepted by domestic banks are not subject to the liquid asset requirement. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position limits No limits are set by the MAS, but it reviews the internal control systems of banks to ensure that adequate limits and controls are established for treasury activities. Provisions specific to institutional investors Insurers may include only 30% of their foreign currency-denominated and overseas assets as the part of their admitted assets that goes into the calculation of the solvency of the fund. Of this, 10% must be foreign currency deposits with an approved f inanc ial institution, foreign currency fixed-income securities graded AA and above, and equities listed on any stock exchange. Insurers may include an additional 10% of foreign currency-denominated fixed-income assets that are fu l ly hedged to the Singapore dollar as admitted assets. Insurers are allowed to invest assets in relation to the currency of their liabilities. Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC (Position as of May 31, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 1, 1995. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of the Slovak Republic is the Slovak koruna. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the Slovak koruna is set in the foreign exchange market. The National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) does not support the koruna's exchange rate but intervenes primar- ily to smooth large fluctuations in the exchange rate and when the exchange rate moves to an unacceptable level. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. The Slovak Republic is a member of the CEFTA. The foreign exchange authorities are the MOF and the NBS. The MOF exercises jurisdic- tion in matters relating to other ministries and central bodies of the state administration, budgetary and subsidized state organizations, special-purpose state funds, juridical persons established by separate law who are connected through financial ties to the state budget, and local communities and their budgetary and subsidized organizations. The MOF main- tains foreign exchange records and documents pertaining to interstate negotiations on prop- erty claims, and implements the results of these negotiations within the country. The NBS exercises jurisdiction over residents other than those specified above and over nonresidents. No. No. Trade in gold is conducted exclusively by banks to the extent stipulated in their license. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Natural persons are eligible to open foreign exchange accounts during their stay abroad; otherwise, approval from the NBS is required. Held domestically Yes. 852 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Held abroad Approval required SLOVAK REPUBLIC 853 Yes. A resident may open an account abroad, or enter into a contract for the safe custody or deposit of funds in foreign or Slovak currency in an account maintained abroad, only after obtaining a foreign exchange permit from the NBS or the MOF. However, a foreign ex- change permit is not required (1) when the resident has a banking or foreign exchange li- cense; (2) in connection with a private ind iv idua l's stay abroad; (3) if the funds are needed to cover the documented operating costs of the resident's local representation or agency abroad; (4) for the purpose of depositing the resident's foreign exchange funds if foreign legislation forbids the transfer of such funds to the country; or (5) if the funds are needed for the payment of fees, taxes, or other documented expenses related to the administration and maintenance of real estate owned by the resident abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad A foreign exchange permit is required for a resident to open or maintain koruna accounts abroad or to enter into a contract to take custody of a deposit of koruna funds in an account maintained abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency This applies to current international transactions and for permitted capital account transactions. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. n.r. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A system of variable levies accompanies import licensing. Effec t ive January 1, 2003, a nonautomatic licensing system applies to sugar from all coun- tries and diamonds from Sierra Leone. Previously, this system applied to the following goods: (1) soft drinks from the Czech Republic; (2) sugar from all countries except the Czech Republic; (3) diamonds from Sierra Leone; and (4) shoes from China. All imports, except those from the Czech Republic, with which there is a customs union, or from countries with which the Slovak Republic has preferential agreements, are subject to an ad valorem tariff. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the generalized system of preferences; thus, the 49 least-developed countries and 96 developing countries are granted 100% and 50% reductions, respectively, on duties appli- cable to selected commodities. Imported goods are subject to a VAT, and there are excise duties on mineral oils, beer, spirits, wine, and tobacco. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements On January 1, 2004, the repatriation requirements were lifted. Previously, residents were required to transfer all funds acquired abroad in koruny or foreign exchange to the country Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 854 SLOVAK REPUBLIC without delay, net of fees, taxes, and other expenses incurred abroad in connection with the acquisition of such funds, within 30 days from the date of acquisition, from the date of learning of such acquisition, or from the date of becoming a resident in the country. This obligation did not apply to (1) foreign or Slovak currency used by a resident natural person during his or her stay abroad; and (2) reinvestment of earnings from direct investment and from employees' securities, except in cases where such investment requires a foreign exchange permit. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for (1) dangerous chemicals, narcotics, poisons, and psycho- tropic substances and their precursors; (2) firearms and ammunition; and (3) all dual-use goods and technologies. Effective January 1, 2003, export licenses are required for (1) a restricted number of agricultural goods; and (2) raw materials, such as scrap or raw skins. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Yes. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Official travel by employees of budgetary and subsidized organizations is subject to allowances, depending on the country of destination. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements On January 1, 2004, the repatriation requirements were lifted. Previously, residents were required to repatriate all proceeds in koruny or foreign exchange without delay, net of fees, taxes, and other expenses incurred abroad in connection with the acquisition of such funds, within 30 days of the date of acquisition, the date of learning of such acquisition, or the date of becoming a resident in the country. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may perform this activity through branches in the Slovak Republic. However, a permit from the Financial Market Authority (FMA) is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments On January 1, 2003, these transactions were liberalized. Previously, a foreign exchange permit was required before entering into these contracts. Controls on credit operations n.r. Controls on direct investment Prior to January 1, 2004, when this was eliminated, a permit from the NBS subsequent to MOF authorization was required, except when the investment is made in an OECD or EEA member country. Effective May 1, 2004, investment in air transport was fu l ly liberalized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVAK REPUBLIC 855 Controls on liquidation of direct investment n.r. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Effective January 1, 2004, all controls on purchase abroad by residents were lifted. Previ- ously, a foreign exchange permit was required, except for purchases in OECD or EEA member countries. Effective May 1, 2004, all controls on foreign ownership of land (excluding agricultural land) were l if ted. Previously, nonresidents, with the exception of Slovak citizens, could acquire real estate in the country only (1) by inheritance; (2) for the purpose of establishing diplomatic representation of a foreign country under conditions of mutuality; (3) when the real estate acquired was co-owned by a married couple, and when one of the partners is a nonresident, or when a nonresident acquired real estate from a spouse, sibling, parent, or grandparent; (4) when there was an exchange of domestic real estate owned by a nonresi- dent for other domestic fixed assets, the price of which, pursuant to separate regulations, did not exceed the price of the original real estate as determined in accordance with sepa- rate regulations; (5) when the nonresident had preemptive purchase rights based on share ownership of the real estate; (6) when the real estate was built by the nonresident on per- sonal land; (7) when expressly permitted under separate legislation; (8) when branches of foreign banks, commercial insurance companies, security traders, or trustees used the real estate in the course of their core business activity; and (9) in the case of nonresidents domi- ciled in EU or OECD countries who have established a branch in the Slovak Republic and needed the real estate for business purposes. Controls on personal capital transactions n.r. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Banks must conduct their activities in accordance with their banking license. Borrowing abroad Borrowing is allowed in accordance with the banking license. Maintenance of accounts abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad is allowed in accordance with the banking or foreign exchange license. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending is allowed with the banking license. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is allowed in accordance with the banking license. Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits A foreign exchange permit from the NBS is required when the banking license does not include acquirement of real estate abroad or dealing in foreign securities except for foreign direct investment in an OECD or EEA member country. Banks may not invest more than 15% of their cash reserves in a foreign company abroad, nor may the total of all investments in foreign companies abroad exceed 60% of a bank's own funds. The same regulations apply to both residents and nonresidents. Five categories—5%, 10%, 20%, 33%, and 50%—for investment are defined, for which investors are required to obtain prior NBS approval. Effective January 1, 2003, as a part of market risk, open foreign exchange positions are monitored in the banks' own funds regulations. Prior to this date, open foreign exchange positions were limited to 15% and 10% of a bank's capital, in euros and all other currencies, respectively. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws Effective January 1, 2004, five categories—5%, 10%, 33%, 50%, and 66% (previously, 5%, 10%, 20%, 33%, and 50%)—are defined with respect to a security trader's whole equity, and for which a permit from the FMA is required. This regulation applies to both residents and nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 856 SLOVAK REPUBLIC Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions Controls on derivatives and other instruments Changes During 2003 January L A nonautomatic licensing system was applied to sugar from all countries and diamonds from Sierra Leone. January 1. Export licenses were required for a restricted number of agricultural goods and raw materials, such as scrap or raw skins. January L Transactions in financial derivatives locally and abroad were liberalized. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January L As a part of market risk, open foreign exchange positions began to be monitored in banks' own funds regulations. Changes During 2004 Exports and export proceeds January I. The repatriation requirements were lifted. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions January L The repatriation requirements were lifted. Controls on direct investment January L Direct investments no longer required MOF authorization or an NBS permit. Controls on real estate transactions January L Controls on residents' purchases of land abroad were lifted. May L Foreign investment in air transport was fu l ly liberalized. May L Controls on foreign purchase of domestic land (except for agricultural land) were lifted. Other controls imposed by securities laws January L The five categories of security traders' equity for which an FMA permit is re- quired were shifted to 5%, 10%, 33%, 50%, and 66% from 5%, 10%, 20%, 33%, and 50%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA (Position as of June 30, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 1, 1995. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Slovenia is the Slovenian tolar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands On June 27, 2004, Slovenia adopted the ERM II of the EMS, allowing the tolar to fluctuate within boundaries of ±15 percent around a central rate of SIT 239.640 per €1. Previously, the external value of the tolar was determined in the exchange market, where the Bank of Slovenia (BOS) could participate, and the BOS published daily a moving average exchange rate for customs valuation, statistics and accounting purposes, as well as for government transactions. As a result of this change, the exchange arrangement of Slovenia has been reclassified, effective June 27, 2004, to the category pegged exchange rate within horizon- tal bands from the category crawling band. The BOS may buy and sell foreign exchange in transactions with the government and commercial banks. Natural persons may conduct foreign exchange transactions with banks or foreign exchange offices at freely negotiated rates. Licensed banks may conduct foreign exchange transactions among themselves. Juridical persons may conduct foreign exchange transactions with banks. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The use of foreign currencies to settle transactions among residents is not permitted. Slovenia maintains a payments agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Mace- donia. The agreement allows juridical persons to conduct transactions through nonresi- dents' accounts. Also, there is an agreement with Italy related to trade between the two border regions. Regional arrangements Slovenia was a member of the CEFTA un t il May 1, 2004. Administration of control Exchange control is exercised by (1) the BOS on the foreign exchange operations of banks and foreign exchange offices; (2) the Foreign Exchange Inspectorate within the MOF on foreign exchange and foreign trade operations of natural and juridical persons other than banks; and (3) the customs authorities, who verify that the necessary conditions are met for the cross-border transfers of goods, banknotes, securities, and gold. 857 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 858 SLOVENIA International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, Slovenia maintains certain restrictions with regard to Serbia and Montenegro and has frozen the funds and other financial re- sources of the Taliban and certain persons associated with the former government of Iraq. In accordance with EU regulations, Slovenia maintains certain restrictions with regard to Myanmar and Zimbabwe. No. n.r. In accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, imports and exports of banknotes and securities exceeding the equivalent of SIT 3 million must be reported to the customs authorities. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad All residents may open and operate foreign exchange accounts without restriction upon proof of identity. Effective February 1, 2003, no restrictions apply to opening or maintaining these accounts. Previously, the following residents were allowed to maintain accounts abroad: (1) banks; (2) juridical persons; (3) natural persons with a temporary residence in Slovenia based on a valid resident visa or work permit with a validity of more than six months; (4) natural per- sons with a permanent residence in Slovenia and a valid resident visa or work permit issued abroad; and (5) residents (other than juridical persons) performing services in the interna- tional transportation of goods and passengers. Other residents could maintain accounts abroad only with BOS approval. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted All nonresidents may open and operate accounts without restriction upon proof of identity. Domestic currency accounts No limits apply on tolar cash withdrawals. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts To implement UN resolutions and for reasons of national security, the accounts pertaining to entities associated with the former government of Serbia and Montenegro are blocked. In accordance with UN resolutions, accounts are blocked with respect to the Taliban and cer- tain persons associated with the former government of Iraq. In accordance with EU regula- tions, accounts are blocked with respect to Myanmar and Zimbabwe. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs SLOVENIA 859 No. Licensing requirements in the form of permits, for the purpose of controlling items that affect security and public health, have been retained for specific groups of goods (seeds and planting materials of agricultural and forest plants, materials for breeding animals, pharma- ceutical products, military equipment, waste, toxic and explosive substances, and precious metals), as well as original sculptures, statues, and antiques, in accordance with interna- tional conventions and codes. Slovenia maintains a system of import quotas applicable only to certain textile products and clothing. Annual import quotas are allocated to relevant associations of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Quotas are not applied to imports from countries with which Slovenia has free trade agreements. In accordance with the WTO schedule, the bound tariff rate for industrial and agricultural products is 27% except for some agricultural products, for which the bound tariff rate is either 45% or a tariff rate plus a specific duty. However, the conventional rate of duty currently applied is 8.76% on average for all sectors; for industry it is 7.68%; and for agriculture, 12.6%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports are not restricted except for certain items that are subject to licensing for security or health reasons in accordance with international conventions and codes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Effective August 19, 2003, no restrictions apply on capital market securities transactions. Previously, nonresidents could conduct securities transactions in the Republic of Slovenia only by going through authorized participants. Additionally, foreign securities could be offered in Slovenia only through an authorized participant in the securities market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 860 SLOVENIA Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Effective August 19, 2003, the domestic issue of foreign debt securities no longer requires the permission of the MOF. Previously, to obtain permission, the issuer had to have an adequate financial rating, and the debt securities had to have at least a three-year maturity and must have been denominated in tolars. Effective August 19, 2003, no restrictions apply on these transactions. Previously, the con- trols on capital market securities applied. Effective May 1, 2004, the BOS's authority to impose conditions on nonresidents' local investment was rescinded. Effective January 2, 2003, foreign management companies may sell market investment coupons in Slovenia through either their branches or persons authorized by a foreign man- agement company that is authorized to manage investment funds. In both cases, Surveying and Mapping Authority of the Republic of Slovenia (SMA) permission is required to open a branch domestically. Previously, cross-border sales of investment coupons were not al- lowed. Effective August 19, 2003, the MOF no longer sets the conditions for the sale or issue of transactions. Effective May 1, 2004, no restrictions apply on sales of investment coupons in the EU. Effective January 2, 2003, domestic management companies may provide services for the management of investment funds (including marketing of investment funds and selling of investment coupons and/or investment fund shares) through either their branches or a per- son who has been authorized by the management company to manage investment funds. SMA permission is required for the establishment of a branch abroad. Effective May 1, 2004, no restrictions apply on sales of investment coupons in the EU. Yes. Yes. No. Effective August 19, 2003, residents are no longer obliged to register the outward direct investment with the MOF. Previously, registration had to be effected within 30 days. Effective January 2, 2003, restrictions on foreign participation in management companies were eliminated under the new Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. Previ- ously, approval was required for nonresidents to own more than 20% of management com- panies or more than 10% of companies involved in the privatization process. Effective August 19, 2003, direct investments by nonresidents in entities engaged in production of or trading in armaments and military equipment require a government license, and investments are allowed freely in the provision of pension and health insurance financed by the budget. Previously, foreign direct investments in these fields were not allowed. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The transfer of proceeds is free of controls after all tax obligations in Slovenia have been met. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Effective March 7, 2003, no restrictions apply to EU residents. Non-EU foreigners may acquire the right to own real estate pursuant to the provisions of a law or an international agreement under the condition of reciprocity. Foreign states may also acquire the right to own real estate used for diplomatic and consular purposes under the condition of reciprocity. Controls on personal capital transactions No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements SLOVENIA 861 The required reserve ratio for deposits with up to three-month maturity is 2% for deposits in foreign exchange and 4.5% (prior to August 23, 2003, 7%) for tolar deposits. For depos- its with longer maturity, the reserve ratios are un i f ied at 2% for deposits with up to two- year maturity and zero for longer maturities. Banks are required to maintain coefficients of liquidity of at least one between domestic and foreign currency-denominated positions and hold the required amount of currency b i l ls issued by the BOS. The coefficients, which are in two time bands, are calculated daily and separately in terms of either domestic or foreign currency. In cases where a bank enters into a contract with the BOS, it may calculate the coefficients of liquidity for the tolar and foreign exchange proportions together within the same time band. Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents BOS approval is required for the acquisition of a qua l if ied holding. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Approval from the Insurance Supervisory Agency is required for insurance companies to invest abroad. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws An 80% currency matching requirement applies for insurance companies. No. Resident accounts Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Changes During 2003 February 1. All residents were allowed to open and maintain accounts abroad. January 2. Foreign management companies were allowed to sell market investments cou- pons in Slovenia through either their branches or persons authorized by the foreign man- agement company to manage investment funds. In both cases, the permission of the SMA is required for the establishment of a domestic branch. Previously, cross-border sales of in- vestment coupons were not allowed. January 2. Domestic management companies were allowed to provide services for the management of funds invested abroad. August 19. Restrictions on transactions in money market instruments were l i f ted. August 19. The requirement for prior MOF approval for issuing or selling foreign securities domestically was eliminated. August 19. The requirement that nonresidents purchase or sell securities in Slovenia only through authorized dealers was l if ted. Controls on direct investment January 2. The new Investment Funds and Management Companies Act came into effect, abolishing the remaining controls on nonresidents' investment in management companies. August 19. A government license was required for direct investment by nonresidents in entities engaged in production of or trading in armaments and military equipment. Restrictions on direct investment in the provision of mandatory pension and health insurance financed by the budget were eliminated. August 19. The requirement to register outward direct investment within 30 days with the MOF was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 862 SLOVENIA Controls on real estate transactions March 7. Foreigners were allowed to acquire the right to own real estate only pursuant to the provisions of a law or an international agreement under the condition of reciprocity. Restrictions on this right by EU residents were lifted. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions August 23. The required reserve ratio for tolar deposits with up to a three-month maturity was reduced to 4.5% from 7%. Changes During 2004 June 27. Slovenia adopted the ERM II of the EMS, allowing the tolar to fluctuate within boundaries of ±15 percent around the central rate of SIT 239.640 per €1. As a result, the exchange arrangement of Slovenia was reclassified to the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands from the category crawling band. May 1. Slovenia ceased membership in the CEFTA. Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments May 1. The BOS's authority to impose conditions on nonresidents' local investment was eliminated. May 1. Restrictions on management companies for sales of investment coupons in the EU were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position as of May 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 24, 1979. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling peg Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control The exchange rate of the Solomon Islands dollar is determined on the basis of the value of a trade-weighted basket of the currencies of the Solomon Islands' four major trading partners as a guide to daily variations of the parity. These variations, however, are programmed to yield modest weekly depreciations of the currency against the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, with daily variations limited to an undisclosed narrow band. The Central Bank of the Solomon Islands (CBSI) provides the commercial banks with daily limits on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions with the CBSI and the public. The com- mercial banks in the Solomon Islands are free to determine their exchange rates for all other foreign currencies. A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of foreign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. No. Commercial banks may enter into forward contracts with residents of the Solomon Islands in any currency. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Contractual commitments in a foreign currency to nonresidents may be met by payments only in the currency specified in the contract. Export proceeds may be received in any for- eign currency or in Solomon Islands dollars from an account of an overseas bank with a branch in the Solomon Islands. Solomon Islands participates in the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, PACER, and PICTA. Exchange control is administered by the CBSI through the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations. The CBSI delegates extensive powers to commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange and may approve certain transactions. The limit on payment applications that may be approved by commercial banks is SI$25,000 or the equivalent, with the CBSI approving all other bona fide requests for foreign ex- change. Effective December 1, 2003, the CBSI lifted the delays in external payments that were introduced in June 2000. All other delays in internal payments were lifted on May 4, 2004. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade No. No. Only Solomon Islands nationals may be granted a license to pan for alluvial gold. The CBSI is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet undertaken any such transactions. Commercial mining companies require a license from the Ministry of Natural Resources (MONR) to mine gold. 863 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 864 SOLOMON ISLANDS Controls on external trade Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit issued by the MONR to mine, buy, or export gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Foreign currency Travelers may not take out amounts in excess of SIS250 without the approval of the CBSI, which is not normally given. Nonresidents visiting the Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of currency for travel costs. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident companies may obtain CBSI approval to hold these accounts when there is a genuine need. Exporters are allowed to hold 20% of their export proceeds in foreign cur- rency accounts. Accounts may be opened only in one currency, which is chosen by the exporter. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. These accounts are permitted, but approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Foreign exchange accounts may be held, but proof of bona fide need is required. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts These accounts may be held only at authorized foreign exchange dealers. Convertible into foreign currency Balances may be transferred abroad with the approval of the CBSI or authorized dealers. Approval required Blocked accounts CBSI approval is required for these accounts to be credited from Solomon Islands sources. No mechanism exists for these accounts. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Effective May 4, 2004, authorized dealers are permitted to approve most transactions up to SI$25,000 (previously, SI$5,000) without reference to the CBSI. Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. Import taxes and/or tariffs The maximum import duty is 20%. There is no duty on imports from Melanesian countries. Taxes collected through the exchange system A tax of SI$3 is levied on sales of foreign exchange exceeding SI$3,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS 865 State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be received within three months of the date of export. Surrender requirements Export proceeds must be sold promptly to an authorized dealer; exporters are allowed to retain 20% of their export earnings. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. Yes. Preshipment inspection Goods for export are inspected by customs officers. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Residents may export goods, other than round logs, without exchange control formalities, but they must comply with the terms of a general authorization issued by the CBSI. Exports of round logs require specific authority from the CBSI and a market price certificate issued by the Ministry of Forestry, Conservation, and Environment. If exporters cannot meet the conditions of a general authorization (repatriation, surrender, or market level price requirements), they must apply to the CBSI for specific authorization. Authorization is not needed for goods valued under SI$250 in any one consignment or for certain exempt categories of goods, including most personal effects of individual travelers. Exports of logs are subject to an export duty of 35%. If the value is greater than SIS250 a cubic meter, the tax is 38%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is readily granted for the repayment of loans contracted overseas and for pay- ments of services and remittances of dividends, profits, and other earnings accruing to non- residents from companies in the Solomon Islands on submission of proof that they are properly due. Limits on the amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments are based on the previously approved repayment schedule. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Personal payments Prior approval Approval is normally granted for the purchase of foreign currency for travel. Applications for travel funds must be submitted to an authorized dealer, and presentation of passports and airline tickets is required. Approval is readily granted. In the case of medical expenses, the application must be supported by an invoice from the provider of the medical services, or from an educational institution for studies abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Approval is readily granted for the remittance of funds of temporary residents. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 866 Other payments Prior approval SOLOMON ISLANDS Approval is required, but it is readily granted. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Approval is required for the disposal of proceeds other than through sales to an authorized dealer. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment CBSI approval is required for all capital and money market transactions. There are controls on all transactions in derivatives and other instruments. Only the acceptance of guarantees, securities, and financial backup facilities from nonresidents is free of controls. Investment by resident individuals or by companies and other organizations operating in the Solomon Islands is subject to certain conditions, including the likely benefit to the Solomon Islands. Inward direct investment Approval by the Foreign Investment Board (FIB) is required for initial or increased foreign investment. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Approval is readily granted for the transfer of proceeds. Sales of investments by nonresidents to either residents or nonresidents require FIB approval. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Only the transfer of assets into the country by immigrants is free of controls. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Liquid asset requirements The liquid asset requirement is 7.5%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS 867 Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Yes. Yes. Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Effective May 4, 2004, limits are set at SI$3 million (previously, SI$2.5 million) for each commercial bank. Provisions specific to institutional investors Insurance companies must obtain permission from the Commissioner of Insurance to remit reinsurance premiums abroad. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Arrangements for payments and receipts December 1. The CBSI lifted the delays in external payments introduced in June 2000. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments Capital transactions Changes During 2004 May 4. The CBSI lifted all remaining delays in external payments. May 4. The limit on the amount that authorized dealers may approve for imports was increased to SI$25,000 from SI$5,000. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions May 4. The limit on the open foreign exchange position for each commercial bank was increased to SI$3 million from SIS2.5 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position as of December 31, 1989) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Independently floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali shilling. There are two exchange markets: (1) the official market, comprising the Central Bank of Somalia (CBS) and two commercial banks operating as authorized dealers. The rate in this market applies to imports of goods and services and debt-service payments of the government; and (2) a free market, in which the exchange rate is freely negotiated between resident holders of foreign exchange accounts, i.e., export/import accounts and external accounts. The exchange rate of the Somali shilling is determined by supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in specified currencies (Djibouti francs, euros, Kuwaiti dinars, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, pounds sterling, and dollars); however, residents are not permitted to make settlements with Israel. Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade n.a. Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the CBS. n.a. n.a. Residents may hold and acquire, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the permission of the CBS; permission is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down within one month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold that origi- nate in member countries of the EU are exempt from customs duty; imports from elsewhere are subject to a 10% duty. 868 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On imports Domestic currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted SOMALIA 869 Nonresidents may bring in with them up to So. Sh. 1,000. Nonresident Somalis and foreign national travelers without diplomatic status are required, upon their arrival in Somalia, to convert at least $100 or its equivalent to Somali shillings at the airport branch of the Commercial and Savings Bank, which acts on behalf of the CBS. Resident Accounts These accounts may be credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad and may be debited for any external payment. Residents may transfer funds to other external accounts. Funds in these accounts may be used for invisible payments as well as for merchandise import payments. All transactions between residents and nonresidents taking place through external accounts are effected at the official exchange rate. Exporters of goods and services may deposit 40% of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports into export/import accounts. Funds in these accounts may be sold to importers holding export/import accounts and may be used only for payments for merchandise imports. Held domestically Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.a. n.a. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in foreign currency and external accounts in dollars may be opened with the CBS by foreign embassies, international institutions, and nonresidents. n.a. n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports All payments for private imports must be effected through LCs. Private importers may establish LCs for imports at a commercial bank on the basis of foreign exchange made available for that purpose through a foreign currency account with the commercial bank; in these cases, the foreign exchange involved is kept in a suspense account until the time of settlement of the LCs. Advance payment requirements Yes. Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports A non-interest bearing cash advance deposit of 100% is required to open LCs for private sector imports; the deposit is retained until the LCs are settled. Letters of credit Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 870 SOMALIA Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports of alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products, crude oil and petroleum products, medi- cal and pharmaceutical products, explosives, precious metals, jewelry, and minerals are subject to prior approval. All other items, except those prohibited for reasons of public safety and social policy, may be imported freely. Negative list Yes. Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. n.a. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements All proceeds must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Exporters of bananas and livestock may retain 40% of their foreign exchange receipts in export/import accounts and must surrender the remainder to the CBS or to authorized dealers. Exporters of nontraditional goods may retain 70% of their export earnings. Financing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements Other Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes An advance payment deposit of 100% of the value of exports is required for exports other than those made under LC arrangements. Exports and reexports to Israel are prohibited. Bananas are exported only by SOMALFRUIT. Exports of various types of ivory, hides and skins, and minerals are subject to prior approval. Yes. A tax of 25% is levied on exports of livestock on the basis of minimum export prices used for purposes of duty collection. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Payments to Israel are prohibited. To prevent unauthorized capital transfers, payments for current invisibles through external accounts, as well as through the commercial banks selling foreign exchange on their own account, are subject to licensing. Yes. Information is not available on the payment of amortization of loans and depreciation of direct investments. Yes. The CBS provides foreign exchange only for official travel expenses. Foreign exchange for private travel expenses may be purchased only from holders of external accounts, with the approval of the CBS. Yes. There is a limit of the equivalent of $200 a person a trip for business and tourist travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test The CBS may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. The limit is the equivalent of $3,000 a year for medical expenses. The l im it is $1,000 a year for studies abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA 871 Indicative limits/bona fide test The CBS may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases for medical expenses and study abroad. Foreign workers' wages Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are allowed up to 50%. Yes. Information is not available on the payment of subscription and membership fees. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and declared. Surrender requirements Exporters of services may retain up to 40% of their foreign exchange receipts in external accounts; they must surrender the remainder to the CBS or to authorized dealers within five business days of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds n.a. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. Controls on credit operations There are controls on all credit operations. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Investments must be approved by the Foreign Investment Board, which reviews proposals on a case-by-case basis, within a 60-day period. Foreign investment (original investment plus any profit reinvested) may be freely repatri- ated five years from the date of the registration of the original investment. Repatriation may be effected in convertible currency or, at the investor's option, in the form of physical as- sets. The Foreign Investment Board may reduce the above-mentioned five-year period. Capital gains resulting from the sale of shares or liquidation of assets are freely transferable after taxes are paid. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 872 SOMALIA Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Changes During 1990-2003 The information provided on the exchange and trade system of Somalia is tentative, as the IMF has not had any official contact with the authorities since March 1990. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 15, 1973. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of South Afr ica is the South Afr ican rand. Certain gold coins, inc lud ing the Krugerrand, are legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The exchange rate of the rand is determined by demand and supply in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations, including cover for transactions by nonresidents (although this is subject to certain limitations). They are also permitted to provide forward exchange cover in any foreign currency to residents for any firm and ascertained foreign exchange commitments and accruals due to or from nonresidents arising from authorized trade and nontrade transactions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments or accruals. The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) does not participate in the provision of forward cover. For the purpose of managing domestic money market liquidity, it may conduct short- term foreign exchange swaps with authorized dealers. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Payments arrangements All countries outside the CMA constitute the nonresident area. The rand is legal tender in Lesotho and Namibia, but not in Swaziland. Settlements by or to residents of the CMA with the nonresident area may be made in rand to and from a nonresident account and in any foreign currency (except the currencies of Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland). Lilan- geni banknotes issued by Swaziland, loti banknotes issued by Lesotho, and Namibia dollar banknotes issued by Namibia are freely convertible into rand at par, but they are not legal tender in South A f r ica. The rand may not be used in any foreign exchange transaction, except as described above, Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Regional arrangements South Afr ica is a member of the CMA. Payments within the CMA are unrestricted. 873 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 874 SOUTH AFRICA Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the SARB; in turn, the SARD has permitted authorized dealers in foreign exchange to deal with most transactions without prior reference to the SARB. South Africa maintains restrictions on current payments and transfers to Iraq, amended in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 986. Restrictions on the transfer of funds to the Taliban are in place in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 1267, 1333, and 1390. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for nu- mismatic purposes and investment, but only monetary authorities, authorized dealers, regis- tered gold producers, and authorized industrial and professional users are allowed to pur- chase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry. Gold producers may elect to sell their total output to approved counterparties, provided the SARB has given the necessary exemption from the relevant exchange control regulations. This includes sales to foreign counterparties. The current exchange control regulations pertaining to the repatriation of export proceeds remain applicable to gold exports. The mint strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand, which are legal tender, without a face value, and these are made available in limited numbers to the local market. All exports of gold must be approved in advance by the SARB. Authorized dealers are permitted by the SARB to approve exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler (subject to a written declaration that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's return). Exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers are subject to a written declaration that the articles are in fu l ly manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 85% of the selling price to the ultimate consignee. Furthermore, after approval by the SARB, residents are allowed to export currency coins, including certain gold coins, for sale to numismatists. Banknotes up to R 5,000 may be exported, but this amount is not regarded as part of the basic travel allowance. The limitation does not apply to migrant workers returning to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take with them reasonable amounts in banknotes. There are no limitations on the exportation of domestic currency to Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa may take with them up to R 5,000 in SARB banknotes. South African banknotes repatriated from Angola, Botswana, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Seychelles, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zim- babwe may be remitted upon submission of documentary evidence that they were not ex- ported from South Africa in contravention of the exchange control regulations. The con- signment of banknotes must be accompanied by the confirmation of the repatriating bank that the banknotes were acquired from bona fide travelers from South Africa in amounts not exceeding R 5,000 a traveler. Residents and contract workers leaving South Afr ica for destinations outside the CMA may take out their allowance in foreign banknotes. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa may take with them any amount of foreign banknotes brought into the country or obtained through the disposal of instruments of exchange brought into and converted in South Africa. The limit on banknotes that may be imported from countries outside the CMA is R 5,000. There are no limitations on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Resident Accounts 875 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Subject to approval, natural persons may hold up to the equivalent of R 750,000 in foreign currency deposits with authorized dealers. Yes. Yes. Approval is granted based on the merit of the application, and in most circumstances only if it can be demonstrated that the management of trade receipts and payments can be facili- tated. South African natural persons may invest abroad up to an amount of R 750,000 and may retain abroad foreign-earned income. No prior approval is required to open foreign bank accounts for these purposes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Authorized dealers are required to open separate nonresident accounts on behalf of non- resident clients in order to distinguish between normal clearing accounts and foreign ex- change trading accounts. The aim of this requirement is to isolate these transactions for monitoring purposes and it does not affect the transferability of funds. Foreign currency accounts may be opened for nonresidents, and funds on these accounts may be transferred abroad without restriction. These accounts may be credited with all authorized payments by residents, with the pro- ceeds of sales of foreign currency to authorized dealers, and with payments from other nonresident accounts. They may be debited for payments to CMA residents for any purpose (other than loans); for payments to nonresidents for any purpose; for transfer to a local nonresident account or for remittance to any country outside the CMA; for payments of the cost of purchases of any foreign currency; and for payments to account holders residing in South Africa for short periods. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts These accounts are opened for emigrants from the CMA and are subject to exchange con- trol restrictions. Cash or proceeds from any other South African asset held at the time of departure and subsequently sold must be credited to this type of account. These funds may not be transferred abroad or to another emigrant blocked account in South Africa but must be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer and used within certain limits for the holder's living expenses while visiting South Africa, for other specified payments to resi- dents, or for investment in any locally quoted securities (such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad). Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Payments may not be made before the date of shipment or dispatch without prior SARD approval, except for imports of capital goods. Authorized dealers may permit, without the SARB's approval, advance payment of up to 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods if suppliers require it or if it is normal in the trade concerned. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 876 SOUTH AFRICA Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Importers are automatically granted foreign exchange to pay for current imports upon presenting to their bank the necessary transport and consignment documents (proof of importation) and an import permit when required. Imports that do not require a permit include all goods from Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe that are grown, produced, or manufactured in these countries, with the exception of a limited range of agricultural products from Malawi and Zimbabwe. The negative list includes all used goods, including waste and scrap; fish, crustaceans, and mollusks; dairy products; dried fruit; black tea; certain vegetables and agricultural products; wines; mineral fuels; radioactive chemicals; new pneumatic tires; gold; certain minerals; firearms; gambling machines; ozone-depleting substances; and footwear and footwear components. All importers requiring import permits for trade or manufacturing purposes must be registered with the Subdirectorate of Import and Export Control. The permits are valid for imports from any country. Import quotas apply to certain agricultural and a number of manufactured products, including clothing and textiles imported from Zimbabwe supported with a Quota and Origin Certificate issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce of Zimbabwe. Tariff rates range up to 69%. A 14% VAT is levied on imports from Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa within 30 days of accrual. Exporters may retain export proceeds for 180 days after accrual in customer foreign currency accounts with authorized dealers. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be offered for sale within six months of the date of shipment or 30 days of the date of accrual, whichever is sooner. Except for exports made on a cash-on-delivery basis or those for which the fu ll proceeds are received in advance, exporters are permitted to cover forward their export proceeds. Authorized dealers may permit exporters to grant credit for up to 12 months, provided the credit is necessary in that particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or capture a new one. All exports over R 50,000 must be supported by a declaration (on Form F178 or N.E.P.), irrespective of their country of destination. Certain agricultural and manufactured goods exported outside the SACU require export permits. In addition to an export permit, military equipment, firearms, and ammunition require an export license issued by the Department of Defense. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Most limits have been removed. Documentary evidence must be produced at the time of applying for foreign currency. Authorized dealers may permit the transfer of commissions against documentary evidence confirming the amount involved, provided the rate of commission is normal in the particular trade. Prior approval is required for the payment of amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for travel Quantitative limits SOUTH AFRICA 877 Effective February 26, 2003, South African residents traveling abroad for business or holi- day are allowed R 160,000 a calendar year a person 12 years or older, and R 50,000 (previ- ously, R 140,000 and R 45,000, respectively) for each child under 12 years, without any daily limit, irrespective of the country of destination. Corporations qualify for a global travel allowance of R 2 million a calendar year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Exchange allowances in excess of the above limits may be provided with the approval of the SARB. Personal payments Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Other payments Prior approval Effective February 26, 2003, the limit on living expenses for a student is R 160,000 a year and up to R 320,000 if accompanied by a spouse (previously R 140,000 and R 280,000, respectively); the student holiday allowance is R 50,000 and up to R 100,000 if accompa- nied by a spouse (previously R 45,000 and R 90,000, respectively). The limit on alimony payment with a court order is R 9,000 a month (previously, R 7,000); and authorized deal- ers may effect transfers for family maintenance purposes at a rate not exceeding R 9,000 (previously R 7,000) a month a family, provided the proposed beneficiaries are either the father, mother, brother, or sister of the applicant and are in necessitous circumstances. Prior SARB approval is required for amounts exceeding these limits. Approval is not required with respect to travel expenditures. Expenditure may not exceed 100% of the corresponding allowance. Authorized dealers may permit remittances of technical service fees, legal fees, and court costs incurred outside the CMA against the production of documentary evidence confirm- ing the amount involved. Authorized dealers may grant approval for royalty payments, provided the Department of Trade and Industry has approved the relevant royalty agree- ment. Authorized dealers may also permit the remittance of profits and dividends, provided it does not involve excessive use of local credit facilities. Income earned from securities held by nonresidents is freely transferable to their country of residence. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements South African residents (private individuals) earning income abroad from any source other than merchandise exports may retain these funds abroad. Corporate entities are required to remit earnings to South Africa within 30 days of accrual. Entities may retain the proceeds of services rendered for 180 days after accrual in the customer's foreign currency accounts with authorized dealers. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of securities by nonresidents requires prior exchange control approval, which is not normally granted. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases by resident individuals are allowed within the R 750,000 foreign investment limit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 878 SOUTH AFRICA Sale or issue abroad by residents Approval is required. Servicing should be undertaken from foreign sources if the funds are employed abroad, or from domestic sources if the funds were transferred to South Africa. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments The regulations governing shares or other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Purchases by resident individuals are allowed within the R 750,000 foreign investment limit. Nonresidents may freely purchase derivative instruments, options, and futures on the local formal market (SAFEX), but over-the-counter transactions require prior approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Export credits may be granted for up to six months. Banks may in certain circumstances allow a further extension of six months. Longer-term credit requires exchange control ap- proval. With respect to services, payment has to be received under the terms of the contract between the parties within a reasonable period after rendering the service. Financial credits, such as loans, may not be extended without prior approval. However, nonresident wholly owned subsidiaries may borrow locally up to 100% of the total shareholders' investment (i.e., the paid-up equity capital; preference shares; undistributed profits; shareholders' loans from abroad; and, in certain instances, the hard core of shareholders' trade credit). To finance a foreign direct investment into South Africa, nonresidents are allowed to borrow up to 300% of the rand value of the funds originating from abroad and invested locally. This does not apply to emigrants or to the acquisition of residential properties by nonresidents or affected persons, or any other financial transactions, such as portfolio investments by nonresidents, securities lending, hedging, or repurchase agreements. The ability to borrow locally, which is generally granted, increases with the size of local participation by a set formula. Prior approval, which is generally granted, is required to ensure that the repayment and servicing of loans do not disrupt the balance of payments and that the level of interest rates paid is reasonable in terms of prevailing international rates. Firms may borrow abroad us- ing their South African balance sheets as collateral in cases where the investment within Africa exceeds R 2 billion or, in the case of investments outside Africa, R 1 billion. Guarantees or sureties for financial loans require approval but not for trade transactions. Performance bonds may be issued. Exchange control approval is required. Requests by corporations are considered in light of national interest, such as the benefit to South Africa's international reserves by, for exam- ple, generating exports of goods and services. Domestic corporations may transfer up to R 2 billion from South Africa for each new and approved investment in Africa, including SADC countries, provided a long-term benefit to South Africa can be demonstrated. For investments outside Africa, domestic corporations may transfer up to R 500 million for each approved new investment abroad, subject to the same criteria (on February 26, 2003, this latter limit was increased to R 1 billion). Consideration is also given to requests from domestic corporations to utilize their local cash holdings to finance up to 20% of the excess ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 879 costs of the new investment when the overall cost of the investment exceeds the respective limits. The remainder is to be financed through foreign borrowing, the terms of which must be disclosed to the SARD. Domestic corporations may utilize their domestic resources to repay offshore loans raised after February 18, 2004, to finance or partly finance new approved investments. Such trans- fers will, however, be limited to the greater of R 1 billion (or R 1 billion in the case of in- vestments outside Africa) or 20% of the total outstanding loan capital per investment in any given year, provided that, during the first two years of the loan's term, total funds trans- ferred from South Africa do not exceed R 2 billion for each new investment, or R 1 billion for investments outside Africa. Individuals over 18 years of age may invest up to R 750,000 overseas or in a foreign cur- rency account in South Africa, provided they obtain a tax clearance certificate from the South African Revenue Service. There are no restrictions on the type of investment or how the funds are used. Income earned abroad and own foreign capital introduced into the Re- public on or after July 1, 1997, by private individual residents in South Africa may be re- transferred abroad, provided the authorized dealer concerned is satisfied, by viewing docu- mentary evidence confirming the amounts involved, that the income and/or capital had previously been converted to rand. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Such purchases by resident individuals are allowed within the R 750,000 foreign investment limit. Other purchases require prior exchange control approval. Effective February 26, 2003, residents may lend to nonresidents through authorized dealers, up to R 30,000 a year (previously, R 25,000). Larger loans by residents to nonresidents are generally not permitted. Prior approval, which is generally granted, is required to ensure that the repayment and servicing of the loan do not disrupt the balance of payments and that the level of interest paid is reasonable in terms of prevailing international rates. Effective February 26, 2003, authorized dealers may allow the transfer of monetary gifts, including loans referred to above, within a limit of R 30,000 (previously R 25,000) an applicant during a calendar year. Cash bequests and the cash proceeds of legacies and distributions from estates may be remitted abroad. Authorized dealers may provide immigrants with foreign exchange to repay loans received in their previous country of domicile for the specific purpose of financing their relocation to South Africa, provided documentary evidence of the debt is available and the immigrant is not in possession of foreign currency to repay the debt. Effective February 26, 2003, emigrants are allowed to transfer up to R 1.5 million a family unit or R 750,000 an individual, inclusive of any assets previously transferred abroad. As a further dispensation, emigrants are allowed to transfer abroad funds in excess of the aforementioned limits, subject to a transfer tax of 10% of the amount in excess of the limit. All other assets remain blocked in South Africa. The emigrant may subsequently repatriate the annual income from those blocked assets, but is prohibited from disposing of the assets, either by sale to South African residents or by asset swaps with either a foreign or South African counterpart. Authorized dealers may also authorize the export of household and personal effects, motor vehicles, caravans, trailers, motorcycles, stamps, and coins (excluding coins that are legal tender in the Republic) for a family unit or single person emigrating, within the overall insured value of R 1 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 880 SOUTH AFRICA Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad All borrowing abroad by residents requires exchange control approval. Banks may contract short-term working capital loans and short-term trade finance, but all medium-term and long-term commitments require exchange control approval. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks may open nostro accounts at their discretion. Lend ing to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks may lend up to R 20,000, provided that the total credit made available to an individ- ual from any source does not exceed this amount. Exchange control approval is required for facilities exceeding this amount. Foreign investors are allowed to borrow domestically an amount of rand equivalent to the value of the foreign exchange they brought into South Africa. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements There are no securities denominated in foreign exchange in South Africa. Reserve requirements on all deposit accounts held by residents or nonresidents and de- nominated in either rand or foreign exchange are 2.5% of total deposit liabilities, adjusted with specific provisions. Liquid asset requirements The requirement is 5% of total liabilities, adjusted with specific provisions. Investment regulations Investments in immovable property and shares and loans or advances to certain subsidiaries of the bank are limited to 100% of capital plus reserves. Abroad by banks Prior approval of the Registrar of Banks and Exchange Control is required. In banks by nonresidents No approval is required if the shareholding is less than 15% of the bank's issued capital. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is 10% of net qualifying capital plus reserves, for both resident and nonresident assets and liabilities. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Effective May 1, 2003, long-term insurers, retirement funds, and investment managers registered as institutional investors for exchange control purposes may transfer up to 15% of their total retail assets and, in the case of collective investment management companies, up to 20% of their total retail assets under management, to acquire foreign portfolio in- vestments. The previous limit was 10% of the prior year's net inflow of funds, regardless of the type of investor. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Changes During 2003 February 26. South African residents traveling abroad for business or holiday were allowed R 160,000 a calendar year a person 12 years or older, and R 50,000 for each child under 12 years, without any daily limit, irrespective of the country of destination (previously R 140,000 and R 45,000, respectively). February 26. The limit on living expenses for a student was increased to R 160,000 a year and to R 320,000 if accompanied by a spouse (previously R 140,000 and R 280,000, respectively). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 881 February 26. Alimony payments with a court order were allowed up to R 9,000 a month (previously R 7,000). Payments for family maintenance were allowed up to R 9,000 a month (previously R 7,000). Student holiday allowances were increased to R 50,000 and to R 100,000 if accompanied by a spouse (previously, R 45,000 and R 90,000, respectively). February 26. The limit on the amount that domestic corporations may transfer outside Africa to finance new investments was increased to R 1 billion from R 500 million. Capital transactions Controls on direct investment Controls on personal capital transactions February 26. Residents were allowed to lend to nonresidents, through an authorized dealer, up to R 30,000 a year (previously, R 25,000). Provisions specific to institutional investors February 26. Authorized dealers were allowed the transfer of monetary gifts, including loans, within a limit of R 30,000 (previously R 25,000) an applicant during a calendar year. February 26. Emigrants were allowed to transfer up to R 1.5 million a family unit or R 750,000 an individual, inclusive of any assets previously transferred abroad. As a further dispensation, emigrants were allowed to transfer abroad funds in excess of the aforemen- tioned limits, subject to a transfer tax of 10% of the amount in excess of the limit. May 1. Long-term insurers, retirement funds, and fund managers registered as institutional investors for exchange control purposes were allowed to transfer up to 15% of their total retail assets or, in the case of collective investment management companies, up to 20% of their total retail assets under management, to acquire foreign portfolio investments (the previous restriction was 10% of the prior year's net inflow of funds, regardless of the type of investor). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 15, 1986. Currency The currency of Spain is the euro. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Spain participates in the EMU with 11 other members of the EU: Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Portugal. The ECB reserves the right to intervene to smooth out fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Options and futures in euros are traded in major financial markets. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. Payments and receipts between residents and nonresidents may be made freely. However, under special circumstances, the Ministry of Economy (MOE) may impose restrictions to protect the national interest or to comply with the rules of international organizations. In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, certain restrictions are maintained on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to the former government of Iraq, Myanmar, certain individuals associated with the previous government of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe. In accordance with EU Regulation No. 147/2003, effective January 27, 2003, financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia are prohibited. Restrictions also apply on transfers with respect to the Taliban and individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. No. No. Imports and exports of banknotes in excess of the equivalent of €6,010 must be declared for anti-money laundering purposes. Imports and exports of banknotes by banks and other authorized financial institutions require prior notification to the Bank of Spain (BOS). Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Yes. Resident Accounts 882 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 883 Held abroad Collections and payments between residents and nonresidents through credits or debits to these accounts may be made freely. However, for statistical and administrative purposes, account holders are required to report the opening and closing of such accounts and to pro- vide information pertaining to credit and debit activities in the accounts above certain amounts. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad The requirements on foreign exchange accounts held abroad also apply to euro accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Spain applies the EU common import regime. In addition, imports of certain defense mate- rials require prior authorization from the General Secretary of Foreign Trade. Yes. In accordance with EU regulations, Spain requires licenses with quotas for certain imports, such as steel and textile products, depending on the country of origin. Import taxes and/or tariffs Spain applies the EU common custom tariffs. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports of certain defense materials require prior authorization from the General Secretary of Foreign Trade. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 884 SPAIN Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers For statistical and administrative purposes, all payments, receipts, and transfers between residents and nonresidents exceeding €12,500 must be declared to the MOE and the BOS. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Residents are free to carry out capital transactions. However, payments and receipts exceeding €12,500 must be reported to the MOE and the BOS. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Residents may purchase securities issued by nonresidents or by residents in a foreign market. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits For statistical and administrative purposes, residents other than banks are required to report to the BOS commercial credits to or from nonresidents exceeding €600,000 and with a maturity of more than one year. For statistical and administrative purposes, residents other than banks are required to report to the BOS financial credits to and from nonresidents exceeding €3 million. Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions No. No. No. No. Loans For statistical and administrative purposes, residents other than banks are required to report to the BOS loans to and from nonresidents exceeding €3 m i l l ion. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Financial credits obtained must be reported to the BOS. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Residents must report loans granted to nonresidents to the BOS. This type of operation is subject to the rules and regulations governing interest rates and commissions, rules of procedure, customer information, and publications applicable to credit institutions. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 885 Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition EU investors, even though they may be authorized credit institutions in other EU countries, must give prior administrative notice. Non-EU institutions may be denied authorization if corporate credit institutions do not enjoy reciprocity in the country of origin of the investor. Regulations differ according to the type of institutional investor. Other controls imposed by securities laws In line with EU securities directives, foreign listing is subject only to the filing of a prospectus on the same conditions as domestic issuers. Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27, Financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia were prohibited. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position as of January 31, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 15, 1994. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka rupee. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements The exchange rate of the Sri Lanka rupee is determined by supply and demand in the for- eign exchange market. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) determines the weighted average interbank rate on a daily basis and participates in buying and selling of foreign exchange at or near market prices. No. No. Effective January 21, 2003, forward sales and purchases of foreign exchange by banks are permitted up to a period of 720 days (previously, 360 days) for repayment of foreign loans. These may be applied to payments and receipts in foreign exchange for trade in goods and services. The commercial banks provide a forward exchange market in which rates for current transactions are determined freely. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and receipts from the member countries of the ACU with respect to current transactions and settlements are effected in dollars. For settlements with all other countries, payments for imports may be made in any foreign currency or in Sri Lanka rupees, pro- vided that the supplier maintains a nonresident rupee account in Sri Lanka. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by credit- ing Sri Lanka rupees to a nonresident rupee account with the prior approval of the CBSL. Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control The rupees may be converted into any currency for making payments and transfers for current transactions. Proceeds from permitted investments may be converted. These transactions are not permitted. Transactions among residents must be conducted in rupees. Sri Lanka is a member of the ACU. Yes. Exchange control is administered by the CBSL's Department of Exchange Control. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must be made through authorized commercial banks in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange (COE). Remittances may also be made through post offices under permits issued by the COE. The 886 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 887 Board of Investment (BOI) handles applications relating to foreign investments in Sri Lanka where special concessions are sought. General permission has been granted for investment by nonresidents in companies whose equity capital is in rupees, subject to certain exclusions and limitations, provided such in- vestments are made through share investment external rupee accounts (SIERAs). Measures have been taken to freeze all capital and assets belonging to individuals and enti- ties associated with terrorism, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 1267, 1333, and 1390. Pursuant to the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, banks and other financial institu- tions have been instructed to freeze all capital and assets of individuals, entities, and or- ganizations associated with terrorism, and prior approval is required to maintain corre- sponding accounts with banks and other financial institutions that do not have a physical presence in any country, also referred to as "shell banks." International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Commercial banks and limited liability companies approved by the COE may import gold on a consignment account basis, subject to terms and conditions imposed by the COE. Sri Lankan nationals may take out of Sri Lanka up to SL Rs 5,000. Unspent rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by foreign passport holders may be reconverted into foreign currency notes only at commercial banks, against original encash- ment documents issued by authorized dealers or money changers, and may be taken out. Individuals may take out foreign currency for travel purposes but are required to declare it to customs if the amount exceeds $10,000 or its equivalent. Sri Lankan nationals may bring into Sri Lanka up to SL Rs 5,000. Travelers must declare at entry foreign exchange holdings exceeding $10,000 or its equiva- lent. In the case of nonconvertible currencies, a declaration has to be made, irrespective of the amount. Certain foreign currencies may not be imported. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Residents may open and operate resident foreign currency accounts with a minimum bal- ance equivalent to $500 in designated currencies, provided the funds do not relate to any transactions. These accounts may be maintained even if the balance falls below $500 or its equivalent. Held abroad Except in the case of exporters, prior approval is required to open these accounts. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Approval is required. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 888 SRI LANKA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Sri Lankans employed abroad and nonnationals of Sri Lankan origin who are employed and reside abroad may maintain nonresident foreign currency (NRFC) accounts in designated foreign currencies. Credits to these accounts are limited to remittances from employment earnings abroad, foreign exchange earnings received in foreign currency and brought into the country by the above-mentioned individuals, approved investment income, and interest payments on the accounts. Balances on NRFC accounts may be invested in enterprises approved by the BOI, without restriction. Dividends and profits earned and sale proceeds from such investments received in foreign currency may be credited to NRFC accounts without the prior approval of the COE. Resident foreigners may maintain foreign currency accounts with domestic commercial banks in any of 13 designated currencies without prior exchange control approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic unit of the bank and not by its offshore unit. The accounts may be current, savings, or deposit ac- counts, but withdrawal of funds by check is not permitted. Credits to these accounts are limited to inward remittances and to amounts in Sri Lanka rupees authorized by the COE for remittance abroad. Debits to these accounts are limited to outward remittances and to payments after converting to Sri Lanka rupees. Shipping and airline agents may also main- tain foreign currency accounts in local branches of foreign banks for the purpose of collect- ing freight paid in foreign currency by exporters only. These accounts may be held by (1) nonnationals residing outside Sri Lanka; (2) firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (3) Sri Lankan nationals residing outside Sri Lanka; (4) emigrants; and (5) foreign banks. For categories (1), (2), and (3), credits from inward remittances and debits for local disbursements or outward remittances for current transactions may be effected freely through these accounts; however, local credits to these accounts require prior approval. Interest may be paid on these domestic currency accounts. Accounts held by emigrants (category 4) are designated as nonresident blocked accounts only when instructions to that effect are received from the COE. Debits to such accounts for local disbursements may be freely effected without prior approval. Interest on blocked funds is permitted for outward remittances net of taxes. However, local credits to these accounts and debits for outward remittances involving capital funds over a ceiling of SL Rs 1 million a family (SL Rs 750,000 a person) require prior approval. Foreign banks (category 5) may open and operate nonresident accounts with local commercial banks without prior approval of the COE. Nonresidents, including diplomatic missions, and resi- dent foreign passport holders may maintain rupee accounts on an interest-bearing basis. Convertible into foreign currency These accounts are convertible, but prior approval is required. Blocked accounts These accounts are used to hold funds, usually those of nonresidents, repatriates, and emi- grants, that have not been accepted for transfer abroad. Authorized dealers may debit these accounts for local disbursements and credit them with pensions and income tax refunds. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Authorized dealers may approve applications to remit foreign exchange or to credit non- resident accounts against applications for the opening of an LC, documents against pay- ment (DP) terms, or documents on acceptance (DA) terms, and against proof of a valid import license, where applicable. These requirements do not apply if the value of a con- signment does not exceed the equivalent of $3,000 (c.i.f.) with respect to raw materials and spare parts for the use by a particular industry or for personal use. Advance payment requirements Advance payments for imports are limited to $7,500 a shipment. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports may be effected against DP and DA terms and LCs. Preshipment inspection Inspection is required for certain consumer goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 889 Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures About 416 items at the six-digit level of the harmonized system code remained under im- port controls at the end of 2003, mostly for reasons of public health, public morals, envi- ronmental protection, preservation of antiquities, or national security. Import taxes and/or tariffs Paddy is subject to licensing to protect domestic producers against low prices. Some cate- gories of used motor vehicle bodies and parts, guns and explosives, certain chemicals, crude oil, cigarette paper, and cashew nuts in shells are subject to licensing requirements. A total of 22 items are exempted from import duties, subject to the approval of the secretary of the treasury. Imports of certain items, including guns and explosives, certain chemicals, crude oil, and some used vehicles, require licenses. Effective January 1, 2004, the tariff structure on non- agricultural products consists of the following rates: zero, 3%, 6%, 12%, 16%, 20%, and 27.5% (previously, zero, 2.5%, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, and 25%; prior to September 3, 2003, zero, 2%, 5%, 10%, and 25%. A few items such as beer and tobacco are subject to a 75% rate, while some cigarettes are subject to a rate just under 100%. The duty on selected items (e.g., crude oil, refined petroleum, and pharmaceutical products) is zero. Effective January 1, 2004, a temporary surcharge of 10% (previously, 20%) is applied to all products subject to duty, except certain essential goods. Selected agricultural products are subject to specific duties (e.g., chilies, red and large on- ions, potatoes, rice, and sugar). A Port and Airport Development levy of 1% of the c.i.f. value (effective January 4, 2003, 0.50% (previously, 0.75%) for imports for processing and reexports) and effective January 1, 2004, a value-added tax with rates of zero and 15% are applied. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are free either to repatriate export proceeds and have such proceeds credited to any rupee account or to an exporters' foreign currency account with the domestic banking unit of a bank in Sri Lanka or to retain export proceeds abroad in any commercial bank, provided monies in such accounts are not used for acquisition of property or other capital assets outside Sri Lanka. Special arrangements apply to exports carried out under trade and payments agreements and to exports to a member country of the ACU. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Licenses are required for exports of coral shanks and shells, ivory and ivory products, handicraft items of ebony, timber (logs or in plank form), vintage motor vehicles, and metal waste and scrap metals (e.g., copper, nickel, aluminum, lead, tin, and zinc). Textiles and apparel are subject to bilateral quotas under the MFA. The Textile Quota Board allocates quotas among exporters based primarily on their past export performance. Taxes are levied on exports of coconut, rubber, and tea. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Indicative limits/bona fide tests are applied to all these transactions. Trade-related payments Remittances of premiums for general insurance are permitted, subject to the country's in- surance regulations. Remittances of premiums for reinsurance may be effected through authorized dealers without prior approval, subject to documentary requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 890 SRI LANKA Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Reasonable amounts of commissions are allowed for export orders secured through agents abroad, provided that export proceeds have been repatriated to Sri Lanka. Profit remittances of nonresident partners and remittances of dividends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks without prior approval if they relate to the year of application and do not include undistributed profits of earlier years or reserves of the company. However, relevant documentation is required to remit interim profits or dividends, or final profits or dividends. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign technical employees of approved enterprises may remit their entire savings after meeting expenses and paying taxes and levies. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Credit card use is allowed only for travel-related purposes and personal expenses and not for payments for imports of goods in commercial quantities or for capital transfers. Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Restrictions on use of funds Funds retained abroad with COE permission and export proceeds permitted to be retained abroad may not be used for acquiring property or other capital assets outside Sri Lanka. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Except for the local purchase by nonresidents of shares or other securities of a participating nature, all capital market securities and money market instruments are controlled. Nonresidents may invest in shares of up to 100% of the equity capital of existing listed and unlisted public companies without prior approval, subject to certain exclusions and limita- tions, in terms of the general permission granted. Funds must be channeled through a SIERA. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Investments under an employee share option scheme are permitted, subject to approval from the MOF. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 891 Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may invest in Sri Lanka development bonds. Nonresident Sri Lankans may invest in any real or financial asset through special accounts (rupee accounts for nonresi- dent Sri Lankan investment). Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents Prior approval is required. On money market instruments These transactions are not permitted. On collective investment securities There are controls on all these transactions. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are permitted only in the case of unit trusts in which not more than 20% of the depository property may be invested in government securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits There are controls on all these transactions. Borrowers are required to settle credit granted to finance export orders within a period of 90 or 120 days from the date of shipment. While the 120-day limit is usually granted, the decision to extend the limit is left to commercial banks. By residents to nonresidents Export credits are permitted, provided they are effected through a licensed bank. To residents from nonresidents Overseas suppliers may extend credit to importers only if the interest rate is reasonable. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents All licensed banks may extend rupee credit facilities to nonresident-controlled companies that are incorporated in Sri Lanka. Effective January 21, 2003, prudential limits placed on rupee credits extended to nonresident-controlled companies (that are approved under Sec- tion 17 of the BOI Act) no longer apply. All financial credits require prior approval, which is based on review of the terms and con- ditions. Approval is normally granted only for long-term loans, and preference is given to loans that will be repaid in foreign exchange. Banks may issue performance bonds and bid bonds without limit on behalf of nonresident persons for exports and other service contracts, subject to the conditions stipulated in the tender, quotation, or contract and, in the latter case, proof of the award of contract. Letters of guarantee valued at the equivalent of $500,000 or more require prior CBSL approval. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Investments abroad by residents are permitted only with the permission of the MOF, de- pending on the period of return and other criteria. Priority is given to investments that pro- mote domestic exports. Inward direct investment Foreign investment is permitted on the basis of the type of business. Excluded areas of investment for nonresidents include the following: money lending, pawnbroking, retail trading with capital of less than $1 million or its equivalent, and coastal fishing. The restricted sectors, in which foreign investment is restricted to 40%, include the following: production of goods for export under international quota restrictions; growing and primary processing of cocoa, coconuts, rice, rubber, spices, sugar, and tea; mining and primary processing of nonrenewable natural resources; timber processing industries using local timber; deep-sea fishing; mass communications; freight; travel; shipping agencies; and education. Investment is permitted only up to the limit approved by the government or the relevant authorities in the following sectors: air transportation; coastal shipping; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 892 SRI LANKA Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment manufacture of arms, ammunition, explosives, military vehicles and equipment, aircraft, and other military hardware; manufacture of poisons, narcotics, alcoholic beverages, dangerous drugs, and toxic, hazardous, or carcinogenic materials; large-scale mining of gems; and lotteries. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of approved investments, along with any associated capital appreciation, may be remitted in fu l l. Expatriates leaving Sri Lanka to take up resi- dence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted to transfer all assets repre- senting their retirement funds and savings. Foreign nationals who have operated small businesses in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they originally brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange allocations to emigrants upon presentation of appropriate documentation. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases for residential purposes are allowed only if funded by inward remittances of foreign currency. Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions These transactions are permitted but effective September 12, 2003, the repatriation of sale proceeds is permitted only if the property was purchased or developed out of inward remit- tances in foreign currency. Loans These transactions are not permitted. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Gifts by residents to nonresidents are not permitted. Transfers of inheritances are subject to a limit of SLRs 350,000. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Yes. Transfer of assets Remittances of foreign currency for life insurance premiums are not permitted. Transfer abroad by emigrants At the time of departure, emigrants may be granted foreign exchange to pay for the cost of transportation to the country of migration via the normal, direct route. A foreign exchange equivalent of up to $2,000 a person may also be purchased at the time of departure. Per- sonal effects of reasonable amounts plus jewelry up to SL Rs 150,000 for each married female, SL Rs 60,000 for unmarried females, SL Rs 30,000 for female emigrants under 12 years of age, and SL Rs 37,500 for male emigrants may be exported. Emigrants are also permitted to effect capital transfers of up to SL Rs 750,000 a person, up to a maximum limit of SL Rs 1 million a family unit. Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Banks are required to report their daily foreign exchange position. Reporting requirements with respect to fund transfers through electronic fund transfer cards are in effect. Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Offshore bank branches may extend foreign currency loans to any nonresidents and also to resident companies approved by the BOI. Effective October 12, 2003, domestic bank branches may extend loans in foreign currency to Sri Lankan expatriate workers who are employed abroad to be used for any domestic purpose against repayment in foreign currency from an NFRC account. Lending locally in foreign exchange Commercial banks may grant foreign currency loans from their domestic currency banking units to exporters who are in a position to pay their loans in foreign exchange earnings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 893 Development banks are also permitted to extend foreign currency loans to exporters based on their foreign credit lines. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The statutory reserve requirement ratio on rupee deposits is 10%, and the ratio on foreign currency deposits is zero. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. In banks by nonresidents There is no limit on foreign ownership of domestically incorporated commercial banks. Open foreign exchange position limits The maximum positive daily net open foreign exchange position of commercial banks is 15% of a bank's own capital funds and reserves. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement January 21. The period for forward sales and purchases of foreign exchange by banks was extended to 720 days from 360 days in respect of repayment of foreign loans. Imports and import payments January 4. The Port and Airport Development levy applied to imports for processing and reexport was reduced to 0.50% from 0.75%. September 3. Tariff rates were revised to zero, 2.5%, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, and 25% from zero, 2%, 5%, 10%, and 25%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 894 SRI LANKA Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 21. Prudential limits placed on rupee lending to foreign-controlled companies were removed. September 12. Commercial banks were authorized to repatriate sale proceeds of residential property to nonresidents provided such properties were purchased and/or developed out of foreign currency brought into the country. October 12. Banks were permitted to grant foreign currency loans to Sri Lankan expatriates to be used for any domestic purpose against the collateral on their NRFC balances subject to the condition that the loan be repaid in foreign exchange. Changes During 2004 Imports and import payments January 1. Import ta r i f fbands were revised to zero, 3%, 6%, 12%, 16%, 20%, and 27.5% from zero, 2.5%, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, and 25%. January 1. The import surcharge applicable to most dutiable goods was reduced to 10% from 20%. January 1. A value-added tax with rates of zero and 15% was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position as of April 30, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 29, 2003. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Prior to January 1, 2003, a de facto fixed system was in operation as the authorities intervened in the foreign exchange market to maintain a stable relationship vis-a-vis the dollar. In this system, Dutch foreign exchange auctions took place on a biweekly basis, with the quantity of foreign exchange supplied by the Bank of Sudan (BOS) at these auctions being decided in advance by a committee chaired by the BOS governor; however, the quantity was not preannounced and varied from auction to auction in accordance with external and monetary developments. Bids were accepted within a narrow bandwidth that took into consideration market trends over the preceding three days. The BOS calculated an indicative exchange rate based on the weighted average transactions between the BOS, bank and nonbank dealers, and individual foreign currency account holders during the previous day. The buying rate of the BOS was set at the level of the indicative exchange rate, and the selling exchange rate was defined as the buying rate plus 1%. The midpoint exchange rate was used for accounting purposes for government transactions. There were no regular BOS interventions in the foreign exchange market outside the auctions. Short- term fluctuations were smoothed out using open market operations in securities. On January 1, 2003, the exchange rate band was discontinued and the Dutch auction system was replaced with an interbank market, in which participants deal directly with each other. As a result of this change and on the basis of additional information regarding the interbank market, the exchange regime of Sudan was reclassified, effective June 1, 2003, to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. The BOS participates in the market through swaps under a rules-based mechanism that triggers intervention when the exchange rate exceeds a band of ±2% around the previous day's closing rate. On April 10, 2004, this band was widened to ±3%. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward exchange contracts are prohibited. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to all countries and all monetary areas (the "convertible area") may be made in foreign currency from any free currency account or special foreign currency account, and receipts from the convertible area may be accepted in any convertible currency. Effective February 20, 2003, banks are required to open accounts in euro and Saudi riyal with the BOS to facilitate clearance of import payments and export invoices. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative There is an agreement with Egypt that has been suspended since 1992. Regional arrangements Yes. 895 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 896 SUDAN Clearing agreements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Yes. No. No. No. Yes. Domestic currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically All residents, except the government, public institutions, and public sector enterprises, are allowed to keep foreign exchange in free accounts. These accounts may be credited with any means of payment without restrictions, other than a customs declaration for cash deposits. Funds from these accounts may be used to make payments and transfers abroad or for any other purpose. Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. n.r. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Diplomatic, foreign, international, and regional missions and organizations; foreign charities and aid organizations; foreign companies, foreign contractors, and the foreign personnel of these organizations are allowed to open special foreign accounts with authorized banks. These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad. Special foreign currency accounts may be debited for transfers abroad to finance foreign travel, to purchase local currency to finance local payments, to make foreign currency payments to local institutions authorized to sell goods and services for foreign currency, and to finance imports. Withdrawals may be made for purposes of travel by account holders or their families, and for local payments in Sudanese dinars. Except for airline companies, approval is required to open these accounts. Accounts of airline companies may be credited with payments by their passengers, consignors, and agents, who are allowed to buy travel tickets in foreign currency. These accounts may be opened by the same individuals and organizations as those allowed to open foreign exchange accounts. Balances may be converted, subject to approval on the basis of documentary evidence. Blocked accounts No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 897 Financing requirements for imports There are no restrictions on import financing. Advance import deposits Yes. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Letters of credit Imports must be accompanied by a pro forma invoice, a valid commercial registration certificate, a valid tax clearance certificate, and the written consent of the authorized bodies for certain categories of imports. Yes. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are required only for imports under border trade and preferential trade arrangements. Negative list Imports of some goods, such as wine, drugs, gambling instruments, and weapons, are prohibited for reasons of religion, health, and national security. Other nontariff measures Imports from Israel are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs The import duty rates range from 3% to 40%, and there are four tariff bands. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds All export proceeds must be repatriated within six months of the date of the bill of lading, depending on the types of settlements. n.a. Yes. Licenses are required for exports under border trade. All exports to Israel are prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Yes. Trade-related payments Insurance for imports must normally be taken out with local companies. Investment-related payments Prior approval Amortization payments on loans to residents are subject to certification from the BOS regarding the original amount of the foreign loans. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 898 SUDAN Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities On money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangement Controls apply on all transactions in capital market securities. Controls apply on all transactions in money market instruments, n.a. Controls apply on all credit operations. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The reserve requirement on foreign and domestic currency deposits is 14%. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2003 October 29. Sudan accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Articles of Agreement. January 1. The exchange rate band was discontinued and the auction system was replaced with direct transactions in the interbank market. January L The exchange regime of Sudan was reclassified to the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate from the category pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands. Arrangements for payments and receipts February 20. Banks were required to open accounts in euro and Saudi riyal with the BOS to facilitate clearance of import payments and export receipts. Exchange arrangement April 10. The exchange rate band was expanded to ±3% from ±2% around the indicative rate. Changes During 2004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position as of January 31, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 29, 1978. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Multiple Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange Arrangement Effective January 1, 2004, the currency of Suriname is the Suriname dollar. Previously, the currency was the Suriname guilder. The conversion between two currencies is effected at a rate of SRD 1 per Sf 1,000. Sixteen gold coins are legal tender. In addition to the official exchange rate, there is a commercial bank/cambio rate at which most private sector transactions take place, and a special exchange rate of SRD 1.1 per US$1 applies to imports of milk and infant formula. Effective February 21, 2003, the official exchange rate is pegged to the U.S. dollar at Sf 2,650 (i.e., SRD 2.65; previously, Sf 2,200 per US$1). The market-determined exchange rate (set by commercial banks and cambios) is subject to a ceiling of SRD 2.8 and a floor of SRD 2.6 per US$1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. n.a. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements in Suriname dollars between Suriname and foreign countries are not permitted; in general, they must be made in specified convertible currencies (Australian dollars, Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, Eastern Caribbean dollars, euros, Guyana dollars, Japanese yen, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars). Yes. Suriname is a member of the CARICOM. The Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) grants export and import licenses according to a negative list. The Foreign Exchange Commission (FEC) grants licenses for most external payments other than imports of goods and services, approves foreign loans, and authorizes banks to deal in foreign exchange. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears Official These arrears are owed largely to Brazil and the United States. Some claims have been made by the Paris Club for arrears to Germany, Italy, and Japan, but these arrears have not been confirmed by the Surinamese authorities. 899 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 900 SURINAME Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Producers of gold may sell only to authorized gold buyers. Authorized gold buyers are permitted to sell nuggets at freely agreed upon prices for industrial and artistic purposes. Dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. If local production does not meet industrial demand, the Central Bank of Suriname (CBS) may import some gold. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate the sale of gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home or abroad, without special permission. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses is- sued by the FEC. Licenses are not normally granted, except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks and imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may bring in gold freely, subject to declaration and provided that they surrender it to the CBS within 20 days. Nonresident travelers may also bring in gold freely, subject to declaration; they may reexport the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free, and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of SRD 0.001 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60% ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to a statistical fee of 0.5%; in addition, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 1.5%. Persons exporting more than the equivalent of $10,000 must submit a written declaration. Travelers may bring in up to the equivalent of $10,000. Larger amounts must be declared. Nonresidents may take out of the country up to the amount they brought in and declared on entry. Resident Accounts Residents are allowed to open foreign currency accounts with domestic and foreign banks and to hold foreign securities, provided that the funds have not been acquired from sales of real estate in Suriname. Balances in these accounts and holdings of foreign assets may be used freely for transactions other than capital transactions. Effective January 1, 2003, all transfers between residents and nonresidents must be reported to the CBS for statistical purposes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. n.a. n.a. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may open accounts in U.S. dollars with domes- tic banks with the prior permission of the FEC; no overdrafts are permitted. These accounts may not be credited with Suriname dollars. Effective January 1, 2003, all current transfers between residents and nonresidents must be reported to the CBS for statistical purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 901 Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts Nonresidents other than banks may open accounts in Suriname dollars freely with domestic banks. Certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, and all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn, and, except for certain speci- fied purposes, debits may not exceed a total of SRD 3,000 a month. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname dollars in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts on behalf of nonresidents drawing pensions from the government or under company-sponsored plans. A special permit is required to transfer pensions abroad. Nonresident accounts in dollars may not be credited with Suriname banknotes mailed from abroad. Blocked accounts n.a. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses used as exchange licenses No. No. Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import licenses are required, and importers must be registered with the national chamber of commerce. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of the following are prohibited unless a license has been obtained from the presi- dent of Suriname: wild animals and plants that are not indigenous to Suriname; pesticides (based on the Fund for Special Operations List of the Inter-American Development Bank); used cars and motorcycles older than five years and buses older than eight years; all chemi- cal and radioactive waste materials; and chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons. Im- ports of some other items, such as explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. Yes. Goods subject to quotas include industrial explosives, weapons, fireworks, psychotropic materials not used for medicinal purposes, mercury, pesticides, herbicides, radioactive ma- terials, pets and other domestic animals, nonagricultural plants, used tires, equipment that uses or contains pentachlorphenol or parachlorotoluene gas, and products made from gold or other precious metals that are defined under the Foreign Currency Law of 1947. Imports of certain types of goods require permission from specific ministries operating under specific acts of parliament, i.e., the Ministries of Industry and Trade, Agriculture, and Forestry and Natural Resources. Importers must obtain certificates of importation issued by the relevant ministry for imports of animals and birds or their eggs; brood eggs; animal parts and products; psychotropic products for human medicinal purposes; medicines for humans and animals; microorganisms for research; waste products; and refrigerators, air conditioners, and equipment containing chlorofluorocarbons. In addition to customs duties, a "consent duty" of 1.5% is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports. A statistical fee of 2% is levied on the c.i.f. value of imports of bauxite companies, and 0.5% of the c.i.f. value of other imports. Suriname applies the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET; as a result, the maximum external tariff rate is 20%. State import monopoly n.a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 902 SURINAME Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Certain export companies have received special permission from the FEC to maintain cur- rent accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export proceeds). State-owned petroleum companies are subject to export surrender requirements. No. Letters of credit Licenses are issued if the exports are covered by LCs opened by buyers abroad. Preshipment inspection This is conducted by the Customs Office. Export licenses Export taxes Exports require licenses issued by the MTI or the Ministry of Agriculture. License are issued by these offices for exports of the following: round timber logs, peeled wood, letterwood, explosives, narcotics, medicinal plants and herbs, and products made from gold or other precious metals not defined under the Foreign Currency Law of 1947. Export licenses for wild animals and plants are granted only by the Director of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of bamboo is prohibited. Exports of processed and semiprocessed wood are subject to a tax of 10% of the f.o.b. value. Exports of bauxite are subject to a statistical fee of 2% of their f.o.b. value, and other exports are subject to a statistical fee of 0.5% of their f.o.b. value. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Effective January 1, 2003, all current transactions between residents and nonresidents are required to be reported to the CBS for statistical purposes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Transfers of profits from investments are permitted subject to registration with InvestSur (institute for the promotion of investments in Suriname). Yes. Yes. A special permit is required to transfer pensions abroad. Information is not available for payments related to medical costs, studies abroad, and family maintenance. Yes. Yes. The amount that a repatriating family may take out is determined on a case-by-case basis. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 903 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Capital Transactions Transactions involving outward remittances of foreign exchange for capital account trans- actions are subject to FEC approval. Application for a license must be submitted to the FEC at least one month before the intended date for effecting such a transaction. Subject to certain requirements, residents may purchase or sell in specified countries Surinamese corporate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the FEC. Controls apply on all these transactions. Bonds or other debt securities Controls apply on all these transactions. On money market instruments Controls apply on all these transactions. On collective investment securities Controls apply on all these transactions. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Controls apply on all these transactions. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Borrowing by nonbanks requires prior approval of the FEC. Financial credits The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those undertaken for the accounts of their customers. Banks are required to surrender to the CBS any excess foreign currency purchased. By residents to nonresidents Authorized banks may place abroad in short-term U.S. dollar assets the amounts corre- sponding to balances in their nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Yes. Transfers of foreign exchange (including loans) imported by a nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use are permitted at any time. Also permitted are transfers of capital pro- ceeds from the sale to residents or the liquidation of fully or partly foreign-owned compa- nies or other forms of enterprises established by nonresidents with foreign capital after July 31,1953. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Residents may not purchase real estate abroad without FEC permission. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans Yes. Yes. By residents to nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 904 SURINAME To residents from nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants The FEC may allow emigrants (heads of family) to transfer foreign exchange in a lump sum or in regular annual remittances representing the proceeds from the sale of assets held in Suriname. The amounts of these transfers are determined on a case-by-case basis. Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Yes. Yes. Effective January 1, 2003, foreign exchange banks may extend foreign exchange loans to residents, subject to specific qualification requirements. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 905 Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement Resident accounts Nonresident accounts February 21. The central rate of the Suriname guilder was devalued to Sf 2,650 (i.e., SRD 2.65) per US$1 from Sf 2,200 (i.e., SRD 2.2) per US$1. January 1. All current transfers between residents and nonresidents were required to be reported to the CBS for statistical purposes. January 1. All current transfers between residents and nonresidents were required to be reported to the CBS for statistical purposes. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 1. All current transfers between residents and nonresidents were required to be reported to the CBS for statistical purposes. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January L Foreign exchange banks were allowed to extend foreign exchange loans to residents, subject to specific qualification requirements. Exchange arrangement January L The Suriname dollar replaced the Suriname guilder as the currency of Suriname; the two currencies were exchanged at a rate of SRD 1 per Sf 1,000. Changes During 2004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position as of December 31, 2003) Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 11, 1989. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency The currency of Swaziland is the Swaziland lilangeni. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The lilangeni is pegged to the South African rand at E 1 per R 1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland (CBS) are based on the exchange rate of the South African rand against the U.S. dollar. Rates are also quoted for the Canadian dollar, the euro, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc, based on the London and New York market quotations for these currencies against the U.S. dollar. No. No. The CBS permits authorized dealers to engage in forward exchange operations. The forward exchange rates are market determined. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Yes. Controls on the use of domestic currency These transactions may be effected through nonresident accounts only, and international transfers to outside the CMA are subject to a limit of E 5,000 a transaction. For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Credit operations CBS approval is required. Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements These transactions must be effected through foreign currency accounts. Swaziland is part of the CMA; no restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA, and, in principle, payments are not controlled. Residents of Swaziland have access to the Johannesburg market, in accordance with the terms and conditions applied in that market. Clearing agreements Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts Barter agreements require CBS approval. Administration of control The CBS, on behalf of the MOF, controls all external currency transactions. In relations with countries outside the CMA, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa. 906 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 907 International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Yes. Yes. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Exports of up to E 5,000 are allowed. Exports of the applicable travel entitlement are allowed. Domestic currency Imports of up to E 5,000 are allowed. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Authority to open foreign currency accounts is delegated to authorized dealers. Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Individuals may hold foreign currency deposits of up to the equivalent of E 750,000 with domestic authorized dealers. These accounts may also be opened to deposit foreign exchange proceeds for a period not exceeding 90 days. Individuals may hold foreign currency deposits abroad up to the equivalent of E 750,000. Companies must obtain approval and may hold only the needed working balances. The authority to approve foreign investments by individuals is delegated to authorized dealers. Prior CBS approval is required to open these accounts. Conversion from these accounts is subject to exchange control approval. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts are permitted, and authority to open them is delegated to authorized dealers. Yes. Yes. Balances in these accounts may be invested in quoted equity securities in Swaziland and in other investments, subject to CBS approval. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements No. Yes. Yes. Advance payment requirements Advance payments are limited to 33.33% of the ex-factory cost of the goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 908 SWAZILAND Advance import deposits Prior CBS approval is required. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection Inspection is carried out by the Department of Customs and Excise. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Permits are required to import goods on the negative list, and these permits entitle the holders to purchase foreign exchange required to make import payments. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Import permits are required for goods on the negative list. Swaziland is a member of the SACU, and no import restrictions are imposed on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses. Imports from countries outside the SACU require licenses. Ports of entry outside Swaziland may be used, but the Swazi authorities are responsible for controlling import licenses and payments procedures. Import taxes and/or tariffs Swaziland applies the customs tariff system of the SACU on imports from outside the customs union. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds For goods shipped to countries outside the SACU, licensing is administered to ensure that export proceeds are repatriated in the prescribed manner and within the stipulated period. Export proceeds must be surrendered within 30 days from the date of receipt. No. Yes. Yes. Contract statements are required. Yes. All exports are subject to licensing. For goods shipped to SACU member countries, licenses are used mainly for tax purposes. Quotas apply to exports of beef and sugar. A sugar export levy applies to export proceeds from the EU market. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments up to established limits is delegated to authorized dealers. Documentary evidence confirming the amount due must be provided. Yes. Yes. Investment-related payments Authority to transfer dividends, profits, and other income is delegated to authorized dealers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 909 Indicative limits/bona fide test Documentary evidence confirming the amount due must be provided. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Effective August 1, 2003, the annual limits on foreign exchange purchases by permanent residents for business and holiday travel are the equivalent of E 160,000 (previously, E 140,000) an adult and E 50,000 (previously, E 45,000) a child under 12 years. Indicative limits/bona fide test Larger amounts are granted upon application supported by proof of need. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Clearance from the CBS is required for any agreements or amendments with respect to technical consulting, management, professional, and royalty fees. Effective August 1, 2003, the maximum annual study allowances for students in non-CMA countries are the equivalent of E 160,000 (previously, E 140,000) for single students and E 320,000 (previously, E 280,000) for married students accompanied by their spouse. The maximum annual travel allowances for students studying in non-CMA countries during vacation periods are E 50,000 (previously, E 45,000) for single students and E 100,000 (previously, E 90,000) for married students accompanied by their spouse. Family mainte- nance transfers are limited to the equivalent of E 9,000 a month (previously, E 7,000). Indicative limits/bona fide test Documentary evidence must be provided. Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Documentary evidence substantiating the income earned must be produced. Credit card use abroad Prior approval To use credit cards outside the CMA, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of intent before departure. Quantitative limits Residents may use up to 100% of the approved travel facility. Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions All inward capital transfers, except for equity investments by nonresidents, require the prior approval of the CBS and must be properly documented to facilitate the subsequent repatria- tion of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. Inward payments toward a loan and investments in unquoted companies may be made freely, but CBS approval is required for registration of equity status prior to investment. Purchases may be processed through normal banking channels either directly in foreign currency or through local currency nonresident accounts held in a CMA member country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 910 SWAZILAND Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Balances in blocked accounts for emigrants may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments as may be approved by the CBS. Other nonresidents may effect these transactions freely as well. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no specific controls; however, the underlying documentation must specify that a nonresident is effecting the transaction in order to distinguish nonresidents' certificates from those of residents. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are restricted to private persons' investment entitlements. Purchases by a resident noncorporate individual are limited to the equivalent of E 750,000. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing purchases abroad by residents apply. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents The regulations governing bonds or other debt securities apply. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. All transactions in derivatives and other investments are controlled. Controls on credit operations All credit operations are controlled. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Borrowing in foreign currency is subject to CBS approval. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment These transactions are allowed, provided they relate to successful tenders for the supply of goods and technical services. These transactions are allowed, provided the bank is satisfied that payment from a foreign guarantor w i ll be received in accordance with the exchange control rulings, should it be required to effect a payment under the guarantee. Private individuals are allowed to invest abroad up to the equivalent of E 750,000. Applications by corporate entities abroad require approval, which is granted on merit. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are subject to the prior approval of the CBS. Private individuals may invest in real estate within the SADC region with prior CBS approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 911 Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases by nonresidents are subject to approval. Applicants must go through the Land Speculation Board to determine if there is effective local demand. Sale locally by nonresidents These transactions require prior CBS approval. Controls on personal capital transactions All personal capital transfers are controlled. Private individuals are allowed to invest abroad up to the equivalent of E 750,000. Loans These transactions require prior CBS approval. Effective August 1, 2003, the annual limit on loans is E 30,000 (previously, E 25,000) a person. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Effective August 1, 2003, the annual limit of gift transfers is E 30,000 (previously, E 25,000) a person. Documentary proof is required for legacies and distributions of estates. To residents from nonresidents Documentary evidence for these transactions must be provided. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Effective August 1, 2003, the limit of E 50,000 on the transfer of assets (e.g., jewelry) inherited by nonresidents no longer applies. Controls apply to funds drawn from blocked accounts. Transfer abroad by emigrants Effective August 1, 2003, the settling-in allowance for emigrants is E 750,000 (previously, E 200,000) a single person or E 1.5 million (E 400,000) a family. Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Transfers of casino, gambling, and lottery winnings by nonresidents may be effected through authorized dealers upon presentation of documentary evidence. Residents are not allowed to participate in lotteries organized abroad. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Residents are not permitted to borrow funds from abroad without prior approval. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. The ratio is 3% of a bank's total domestic public liabilities, excluding any balances for which the bank is liable to any financial institution. Effective August 1, 2003, 100% of vault cash is eligible to satisfy the reserve requirement (previously, only 25% was eligible). Effective August 1, 2003, the ratio is 10% of total public liabilities for the Swaziland Development and Savings Bank and 13% of commercial banks (previously, 15% for commercial banks). Investment regulations In banks by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 912 SWAZILAND Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Effective August 1, 2003, institutional investors are allowed to invest abroad 35% (previously, 15%) of their assets in Swaziland by way of asset swaps after obtaining CBS approval. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Changes During 2003 Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers August 1. The annual limits on foreign exchange purchases by permanent residents for business and holiday travel were raised to the equivalent of E 160,000 (previously, E 140,000) an adult and E 50,000 (previously, E 45,000) a child under 12 years. Capital transactions Controls on personal capital transactions August 1. The maximum annual study allowances for students in non-CMA countries were raised to E 160,000 (previously, E 140,000) for single students and E 320,000 (previously, E 280,000) for married students accompanied by their spouse. The maximum annual travel allowances for students studying in non-CMA countries during vacation periods are E 50,000 (previously, E 45,000) for single students and E 100,000 (previously, E 90,000) for married students accompanied by their spouse. Family maintenance transfers were limited to E 9,000 a month (previously, E 7,000). August L The annual limits on loans and monetary gifts were increased to E 30,000 a person from E 25,000 a person. August L The limit of E 50,000 on the transfer of assets (e.g., jewelry) inherited by nonresidents was eliminated. August 1. The limits on settling-in allowances were increased to E 750,000 from E 200,000 for a single person and to E 1.5 million from E 400,000 for a family. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions August 1. One hundred percent of vault cash was made eligible to satisfy the reserve requirement (previously, only 25% was eligible). August L The liquid asset requirements for the Swaziland Development and Savings Bank were reduced to 10% of total public liabilities. The ratio for commercial banks was reduced to 13% from 15% of total public liabilities. Provisions specific to institutional investors August L The limit on investment abroad by institutional investors was increased to 35% from 15% of their assets in Swaziland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Sweden is the Swedish krona. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The exchange rate of the krona is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Yes. Sveriges Riksbank —the central bank —and certain government agencies participate in the forward exchange rate market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions No. No. No. In accordance with'IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions and the relevant EU regulations, measures have been taken to freeze the accounts of listed terrorist groups. In accordance with UN sanctions In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, cer- tain restrictions are maintained on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions with respect to natural and legal persons, public bodies, and entities related to the previous government of Iraq; Myanmar; certain individuals associated with the previous government of the former Republic of Yugoslavia; and individual members of the government of Zimbabwe and any natural and legal persons associated with them. In accordance with EU Regulation No. 147/2003, effective January 27, 2003, financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia are prohibited. Restrictions also apply on transfers with respect to the Taliban and individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 913 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 914 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts SWEDEN Yes. Residents may open accounts, provided that the amounts are reported to the Swedish Na- tional Tax Board for tax control. Effective January 1, 2003, these are no longer required to be reported to the Riksbank. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident Accounts External krona accounts may be held by nonresidents domiciled abroad, including persons who have become nonresidents after emigrating. These accounts may be used for payments and transfers and may be converted into any foreign currency. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of textiles and clothing from about 20 countries are subject to licensing for surveil- lance purposes. Imports of most iron and steel products from countries outside the EU and shoes from Vietnam are subject to licensing for surveillance purposes. Effective March 9, 2003, imports of certain goods from China, such as bicycles, brushes, fireworks, gloves, and toys, are no longer subject to licensing for surveillance purposes. The importation of textiles and clothing from about 20 countries is subject to quotas. Agri- cultural and fishery products are also subject to import licensing. Some iron and steel prod- ucts from Kazakhstan, Russia, and Ukraine are also subject to quotas, as are imports of porcelain and shoes from China. Effective July 9, 2003, imports from Iraq are no longer prohibited, except for items of cul- tural value. Import restrictions apply to certain categories of food, as well as to narcotic drugs, weapons, live animals, radioactive materials, and other items. Import taxes and/or tariffs Alcohol, tobacco, and mineral oils are subject to import taxes and customs duty. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Effective July 9, 2003, exports to Iraq are no longer prohibited, with the exception of items of cultural value. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 915 Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls apply only on purchases locally by nonresidents of shares and other securities of a participating nature and of money market instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. Laws on inward investment and establishment apply to investment in fishing, civil aviation, and transport and communications. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents A permit may be required. Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Abroad by banks Open foreign exchange position limits No. Yes. For prudential reasons, general guidelines exist for credit institutions' and securities firms' net positions in foreign currencies. These guidelines stipulate limits both on positions in a single currency —15% of the capital base—and on the total net position of all currencies— 30% of the capital base. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition The same provisions apply as for open foreign exchange position limits. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 916 SWEDEN Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. Financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia were prohibited. Resident accounts January 1. The reporting of amounts in foreign exchange accounts held abroad to the Riks- bank was no longer required. Imports and import payments March 9. The licensing requirement on certain goods imported from China was lifted. Exports and export proceeds July 9. Exports to Iraq were permitted, with the exception of items of cultural value. July 9. Imports from Iraq were permitted, with the exception of items of cultural value. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 29, 1992. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions The exchange rate of the Swiss franc is determined by supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. However, the Swiss National Bank (SNB) reserves the right to intervene in the foreign exchange market. All settlements are made at free market rates. No. No. No officially fixed premiums and discount rates apply to forward exchange contracts, all of which are negotiated at free market rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Yes. In accordance with UN Security Council resolutions, restrictions are imposed with respect to certain individuals and organizations associated with known terrorists, Al-Qaida, the Taliban, specific individuals and enterprises associated with the former government of Iraq, and certain individuals associated with the governments of Zimbabwe, Myanmar, and the previous government of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold. Licenses are not required for imports or exports of gold coins or bullion. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Resident Accounts 917 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 918 SWITZERLAND Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import controls apply for weapons, war materials, and for sanitary or phytosanitary reasons. Imports of rough diamonds are permitted only under the Kimberly Process Certification Scheme. Licenses are required mostly for agricultural products. Licenses with quotas are required for specific agricultural products. In general, customs duties are levied based on the weight of goods instead of their value. On industrial goods, import tariffs are generally very low. On agricultural goods that are also produced in Switzerland, they are high, averaging about 34%; the rates on goods that are not subject to tariff quotas range up to 678%. In the framework of the General Agree- ment on Tariffs and Trade-Uruguay Round, all quantitative restrictions and measures hav- ing equivalent effects concerning agricultural products have been transformed into tariffs. In order to maintain market access opportunities prevailing in 1986-88, 28 tariff rate quotas were created for specific agricultural and livestock goods (fruits, vegetables, meats, wines, etc.). State monopolies apply to imports of alcohol, of 80 proof and above, and salt, although private sector imports may be effected with prior authorization. Some cantons have a monopoly on imports of salt. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas A system of general and individual licenses applies to controlled exports. Exports of weapons, war material, dual-use goods that may be used for the production of conventional weapons, and weapons of mass destruction are controlled and require a license. Exports of rough diamonds are permitted only under the Kimberly Process Certification Scheme. Export taxes No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 919 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Yes. Capital Transactions Foreign and domestic bond issues denominated in Swiss francs must be reported to the SNB and may be lead-managed only by a bank or a securities dealer domiciled in either Switzerland or Liechtenstein. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. In case of major disturbances in the capital markets, the federal government may introduce a permit requirement for certain outward capital transfers (e.g., bond issues). No. No. No. No. Purchases by nonresidents require approval by the canton in which the property is situated. The approval of the canton is subject to supervision and appeal by the federal government. No. No. The overall limit on investments in foreign currencies by life insurance and non-life insur- ance companies is 30%, with limits for foreign equities, bonds, and real estate of 25%, 20%, and 5%, respectively, of the total portfolio. These provisions also apply to pension funds, but they are not binding with respect to pension funds that have prudential portfolio management practices. Yes. Yes. The minimum limit on portfolio investment locally is 70%. Foreign currency liabilities of insurance companies must be at least 80% covered with assets in the same currency. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Exchange rate structure Multiple Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian pound. The exchange rate system consists of the following: (1) the legally designated official rate of LS 11.20/11.25 per $1, which applies to the repayment of loans and interest arising from bilateral payments agreements; (2) the budget accounting rate of LS 46.45/46.50 per $1 (also known as the government fee rate), which applies to public sector exports of petro- leum, all government imports (including essential subsidized products and invisibles), and repayment of loans and interest payments not related to bilateral payments agreements; (3) the "rate in neighboring countries" (the commercial rate) of LS 46.00/46.50 per $1, which applies mainly to public commercial transactions, including (i) remittances abroad and payments by the public sector that are approved by the Committee for Foreign Ex- change; (ii) all public sector enterprise foreign exchange transactions; and (iii) domestic expenses of foreign oil companies; and (4) the "exchange rate in neighboring countries for noncommercial transactions" (the noncommercial rate)—an official exchange rate that is set to reflect developments in the free market exchange rates in Beirut, Lebanon, and Am- man, Jordan. Since October 3, 2002, this last rate has been used for foreign exchange sales by the Commercial Bank of Syria (ComBS) for limited noncommercial transactions (e.g., medical, student, religious, and travel expenses); and the extension of credit to importers of raw materials needed for exports and for salaries of staff of UN and diplomatic missions in the Syrian Arab Republic. Effective March 23, 2003, all noncommercial transactions may be effected at this rate. Effective January 3, 2004, the budget accounting rate and the rate in neighboring countries (the commercial rate) were unified as the "exchange rate for the state and public sector" with a rate of 48.50/48.65 per $1, and the exchange rate in neighboring countries for non- commercial transactions became the "free exchange rate for private sector transactions." The unoff ic ial rate is the "free market rate," which is the rate in the other countries in the region (mainly Amman and Beirut), and in Syria that applies to (1) private sector import payments (except for goods specified in the "exports proceeds" list) that are financed from private unrecorded exports; (2) private sector remittances and services receipts and pay- ments; and (3) private capital flows. The free market rate is determined by private supply and demand, with market participants matching their needs through brokers or dealers in the offshore market. Effective July 15, 2003, the "export proceeds rate," which applied to goods that could be imported only with foreign exchange earned through exports, was eliminated. After surrendering 10% of their export proceeds to the ComBS, exporters could use their retained export earnings to import raw materials for their own use or for sale to other companies. The export proceeds rate was determined by supply and demand, and tended to have a premium above the free market rate. There were no dealers or brokers in the market, with market participants —namely, importers and exporters—buying from and selling to each other. On July 15,2003, this exchange rate was eliminated. Effective January 7, 2004, private banks are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The official rate is pegged to the dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. 920 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 921 Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The Exchange Office (EO) prescribes the currencies that may be obtained for exports. Pro- ceeds from exports to all countries may be obtained in any convertible currency. Prescrip- tion of currency requirements is not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to, and receipts from, Israel are prohibited. With a few exceptions, non-Syrians visiting the Syrian Arab Republic are required to settle their hotel bills in foreign exchange. Effective July 8, 2003, the penalties imposed by Decrees Nos. 6 and 26, which prohibit unofficial trading in foreign currencies and require violations to be submitted to special courts, were lifted. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative There are agreements with Russia and Sri Lanka. Administration of control The Ministry of Economy and Trade (MOET) determines policy with regard to imports and exports and issues import licenses. The EO issues exchange licenses for invisibles and capi- tal transactions. International security restrictions n.a. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. Controls on external trade Imports of gold are subject to import licensing. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents traveling abroad may take with them up to LS 2,000 a trip unless they are travel- ing to Jordan or Lebanon. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon who are not eligible for a for- eign exchange allowance may take with them up to LS 7,500 a trip. Nonresidents leaving the Syrian Arab Republic are allowed to reconvert Syrian currency up to the equivalent of LS 15,000 into foreign exchange, provided that the banknotes are less than the amounts initially exchanged through the ComBS during a period not exceeding two months before the date of departure. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $3,000 a trip to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents may open foreign exchange accounts at the ComBS with funds originating from abroad. Deposits may be transferred to other resident accounts. Deposits in the form of banknotes may be withdrawn only in that form, unless transferred abroad for medical treatment, education, newspaper subscriptions, or other similar noncommercial purposes. Deposits with a term of 15 days or more accrue a competitive rate of interest. Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Yes. Yes. Approval is granted if the resident has economic activities abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 922 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open accounts in convertible foreign currencies at the ComBS for the deposit of funds from abroad. Balances in such accounts may be sold to local banks, trans- ferred abroad without restriction, or used to pay for authorized imports. Temporary non- resident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily residing in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in settlement currencies through payment conventions. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds in foreign currencies sold to the author- ized banks and with other receipts in foreign currencies or in Syrian pounds; they may be debited to pay for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. Yes. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments The foreign exchange requirements of the state trading agencies are met from the annual foreign exchange budget; these agencies automatically receive import licenses upon sub- mission of documentation of their import requirements. When foreign exchange is not made available, private imports must be financed with the importers' own resources through external credit arrangements, foreign currency deposits maintained in the Syrian Arab Republic by nonresidents, or foreign exchange purchased from other private or mixed enterprises through the intermediary of the ComBS at the free market rate. Imports of many goods are restricted to specific methods of financing. Effec- tive July 15, 2003, the requirement that certain exports be financed only through export proceeds was eliminated. A non-interest bearing advance deposit is required for public sector imports in an amount equal to 100% of the value of the imports. Private sector imports are not subject to this requirement if they are financed from abroad. If the ComBS requires an LC, an import deposit is required in the amount of 100% (10% in the case of manufacturers importing raw materials) of the value of the import plus a 3% fee. Private importers may choose to import products specified on the permitted list by opening LCs at the ComBS. All imports valued at more than the equivalent of LS 2,000 (LS 1,000 for imports from Lebanon) require licenses, which are provided on proof of foreign exchange availability. A fee ranging from LS 104 to LS 454 is charged on issuance of an import license. Imports are regulated through three lists: (1) the "restricted list" for products whose imports are a monopoly of the public sector; (2) the "negative list," comprising imports that are prohibited for security, health, or religious reasons or prohibited for the protection of do- mestic industries; and (3) the "permitted list," with goods whose import by the private sec- tor is permitted, subject to the restrictions on their financing. Imports must come directly from the country of origin, but the MOET has the authority to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. There is a general list of goods that may not be imported from non-Arab countries. A sepa- rate list of prohibited imports from member countries of the Arab Free Trade Area includes only goods prohibited for health, safety, religious, or environmental reasons. Imports from the Syrian free zones are allowed for certain industrial goods and for goods imported directly from the country of origin. Imports of commodities originating in Israel are prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 923 An import surcharge of 2% is applied to all imports; government imports and imports of certain essential items are exempted. Imports for customs duty purposes are valued at LS 46.50 per $ 1; previously, there were three rates—LS 11.25, LS 23.00, and LS 46.50 per $1—according to the categories of goods. Import tariffs range up to 200%. All previous special levies on imports have been replaced by a unified import surcharge scheme with rates ranging from 6% to 35%. Syrian nationals working abroad are allowed import exemp- tions on luxury items valued between the equivalent of $500 and $7,000. Many basic commodities (such as paper, salt, tobacco, wheat, iron and steel, and certain agricultural machinery) are imported only by state trading agencies or, for their own ac- count, by certain private sector importers. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Effective July 15, 2003, these requirements were eliminated. Previously, exporters were required to repatriate and surrender export proceeds from exports to all destinations within one year of the date of export shipment. Private sector exporters of manufactured goods were required to surrender 10% of their export proceeds to the ComBS at the noncommer- cial rate and could retain the remainder to finance permitted imports. Public sector enter- prises could retain 100% of their export proceeds in special foreign currency accounts, and private sector exporters of fruits and vegetables could retain 100% of the proceeds. Financing requirements The ComBS may accept prepayments for exports of Syrian products. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Export licenses Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cotton yarn, and their derivatives are made by the gov- ernment organizations dealing in cereals and cotton. Petroleum product exports are handled by the state Petroleum Marketing Office. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for government agencies, state trading agencies, and specified companies. Exports of a few goods to all countries, and all exports to Israel, are prohibited. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Most payments for public sector invisibles are effected at the budget accounting rate, while most payments for private sector invisibles are effected at the noncommercial rate. Yes. Remittances of profit and dividends must be authorized by the EO upon proof of payment of income tax. Profits from projects approved by the Higher Committee for Investment under the investment law may be repatriated freely. Information is not available on the amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments. Yes. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $3,000 and LS 2,000 a trip to all countries except Jordan and Lebanon. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon who are not eligible for a foreign exchange allowance may take with them up ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 924 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Quantitative limits Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits to LS 7,500 a trip in Syrian banknotes. On departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 600 a person if traveling to Arab countries and LS 1,500 a person for other destinations. An airport stamp tax of LS 200 is added to this tax. Yes. A maximum of the equivalent of $20,000 (at the noncommercial rate) may be transferred abroad for medical treatment, with authorization from the Ministry of Health, or for studies abroad, with authorization from the Ministry of Higher Education. Yes. Yes. Up to 60% of salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic and 50% of salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian Arab Republic may be transferred. Foreign staff connected with foreign direct investments are allowed to transfer 100% of severance pay. Pension income may be transferred to Syrians living abroad in foreign currency converted at the noncom- mercial exchange rate. Other payments Prior approval Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from a few transactions by the public sector and those from transactions by the private sector are sold at the noncommercial rate. Likewise, Syrian government employees who are working abroad are required to repatriate and convert a minimum of 25% of each year's earnings at the noncommercial rate. All Syrians working abroad are also subject to an annual tax of the equivalent of $50-$700, depending on their profession, and are al- lowed import tax exemptions on luxury items (valued between the equivalent of $500 and $7,000) if the equivalent funds are surrendered at the budget accounting rate. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Exports of capital require the approval of the EO. There is no market in medium- and long-term government bonds in the Syrian Arab Repub- lic. Bonds are issued on an as-needed basis to government-owned banks to supplement their capital base. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On money market instruments The only instruments available in the Syrian Arab Republic are investment bonds issued by the Popular Credit Bank (PCB) as agent of the government. The bonds, which carry an interest rate of 6.5% a year, have 10-year maturity but have a short-term effective holding period, as they are redeemable after 3 to 6 months. They may be purchased only by non- bank Syrian residents and by the PCB. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 925 On collective investment securities These instruments do not exist in the Syrian Arab Republic. Purchase abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Yes. n.a. There are controls on all credit operations and on guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment The Syrian Arab Republic provides special fac i l i t ies for the investment of funds of immi- grants and of nationals of Arab states, including a seven-year tax exemption from all taxes in the tourism and agricultural industries. Projects with minimum fixed assets of LS 10 million approved by the government benefit from a number of exemptions from exchange and trade regulations, including exemption from customs duties on imports of required machinery, equipment, and vehicles. Companies with at least 25% public participation are exempt from all taxes for seven years and private companies are exempt for five years; exemption periods may be extended by an additional two years if the company exports at least 50% of its output. Investors are permitted to hold foreign currency accounts to finance convertible currency requirements. These accounts comprise all capital and loans secured in foreign currency and 100% of proceeds from exports. All profits may be transferred freely. The Syrian Arab Republic has investment guarantee agreements with France, Ger- many, Switzerland, and the United States. Companies licensed under the investment law are allowed to exchange into local currency at the noncommercial rate in neighboring coun- tries a part of their assets, duly deposited at Syrian banks, to cover basic needs and local liabilities. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Investors are free to repatriate foreign exchange capital after five years from the date of investment. Capital may be repatriated after six months if the project suffers from events beyond the control of the investor. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents and foreign nationals may acquire real estate only after presenting evidence that they have converted into Syrian pounds the foreign exchange equivalent of the price of the property at the authorized local bank. Sale locally by nonresidents Proceeds are required to be held in a blocked account and repatriated gradually, Controls on personal capital transactions n.a. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Foreign currency deposits are not subject to reserve requirements. Yes. Yes. Foreign banks are allowed to operate in free economic zones. Branches of foreign banks in free zones must have a m in imum capitalization of the equivalent of $10 million in foreign exchange and their services may be available only to companies set up in the free zone. Banks operating outside the free economic zones must have 51% ownership by local inves- tors and be capitalized at a m in imum amount of LS 1,500 million. In banks by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 926 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.a. n.a. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement March 23. All noncommercial transactions were allowed to be conducted at the noncom- mercial rate. July 15. The export proceeds rate was abolished. Arrangements for payments and receipts July 8. The penalties imposed by Decrees Nos. 6 and 26, which prohibited unofficial trad- ing in foreign currencies and required submittal of violations to special courts, were lifted. Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds July 15. The requirement that certain imports be effected using foreign exchange received only through exports was eliminated. July 15. The surrender requirements for export proceeds were lifted. (Previously, a 10% requirement applied to private sector exporters.) Exchange arrangement Changes During 2004 January 3. The budget accounting rate and the rate in neighboring countries (the commer- cial rate) were unified into the "exchange rate for the state and the public sector," and the neighboring exchange rate for noncommercial transactions became the "free exchange rate for private sector transactions." January 7. Private banks were authorized to deal in foreign exchange, ending the monopoly of the Commercial Bank of Syria. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN (Position as of February 29, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Tajikistan is the Tajik somoni. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate The exchange rate of the Tajik somoni is determined by supply and demand in the foreign exchange market, in which the National Bank of Tajikistan (NBT) may intervene in case of excessive fluctuations. The off ic ial exchange rate of the somoni against the dollar is set by the NBT on the basis of the weighted average exchange rate of transactions in the interbank foreign exchange market. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined indirectly through cross exchange rates of the dollar against these currencies. The official exchange rate is set weekly by Friday and is effective from Saturday to the next date of its announcement. The foreign exchange market consists of the over-the-counter interbank market, the market for intrabank client transactions, and a network of foreign exchange bureaus belonging to authorized banks that conduct exchange transactions with cash foreign currency. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Residents and nonresidents may use somoni for the settlement of all transactions. Settle- ments between residents and nonresidents in international payments may be made in any foreign currency, except in settlements for exports of cotton products and aluminum, which are solely conducted in dollars or other freely convertible currencies. Use of foreign exchange among residents Use of foreign exchange among residents is prohibited unless specifically authorized by the NBT in particular cases. Payments arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Barter trade is allowed only for aluminum and electricity. Administration of control The NBT establishes the procedures for foreign exchange transactions and monitors their observance, issues licenses to banks for banking operations in foreign exchange, conducts exclusive supervision of their activity, sets open foreign exchange position limits for banks, and monitors the foreign exchange transactions of authorized banks. The MOF monitors the status of government and government-guaranteed debt and registers inward direct invest- ments. The Ministry of State Revenue and Tax Collections supervises the collection of taxes and customs duties in international trade. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. The export of gold and other precious metals is controlled by the government. 927 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 928 TAJIKISTAN Controls on external trade Gold-extracting joint ventures are subject to controls. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Exports of domestic currency are allowed freely without customs regulations. Foreign currencies up to $2,000 or its equivalent may be exported freely by individuals, provided that customs regulations are observed. Amounts exceeding this limit are subject to documentary requirement. Imports by individuals are permitted without restrictions, provided that customs rules are observed. Legal entities may import only through authorized banks and authorized credit institutions. Effective February 26, 2004, a customs fee of 0.075% (previously, 0.15%) is levied on imports of cash by authorized banks. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Effective September 15, 2003, restrictions on the deposit of cash into these accounts were lifted. Effective February 26, 2004, the regulation setting forth the order of priority for the use of balances in these accounts was rescinded. The account holder may dispose of account resources freely. Yes. NBT approval is required except when accounts are opened by resident individuals staying abroad temporarily—for example, for work, study, medical treatment, or humanitarian purposes. Accounts may be maintained at any bank. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.r. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency All accounts in domestic currency are convertible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Accounts may be opened at any bank. Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident legal entities may acquire foreign exchange in Tajikistan's foreign exchange market with somoni earnings from current and capital account transactions. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports The value of all imported goods must be equal to the amount paid for them. If goods are not delivered, the importer must return the funds transferred earlier within the time period stipulated in the contract. Effective September 1, 2003, transaction certificates are no longer required as part of import documentation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN 929 Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Imports of tobacco and tobacco products require licenses. The importation of firearms, narcotics, poisons, chemical weapons, and nuclear materials is prohibited. Licenses with quotas Licenses with quotas apply to imports of ethyl alcohol and alcoholic beverages. Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports are subject to duties. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be credited to the accounts of residents maintained with authorized banks, or to their accounts abroad with NET approval. Export proceeds must be received completely and on a timely basis. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Export licenses With quotas Export taxes For exports of cotton and aluminum, a 100% advance receipt is required. For all other goods, foreign exchange proceeds must be returned within 120 days of the export date. NET authorization is required for export receipt deferrals exceeding 120 days. Preparation of a transaction report is required for each export transaction, with the exception of transactions that are 100% prepaid. All transactions are subject to monitoring by customs authorities and authorized banks until their full completion. Licenses are required for the production, processing, and export of tobacco and tobacco products. Licenses with quotas apply to exports and wholesale purchases of ethyl alcohol and alcoholic beverages. A sales tax of 10% and 1% applies on exports of cotton fiber and aluminum, respectively. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Payments to nonresidents by residents require presentation of documents proving the validity of payments. Resident individuals may transfer foreign exchange without opening accounts within the limits of the amounts supported by documents. In addition, they may effect one transfer per business day for a moderate amount of payment for current consumption. Indicative limits/bona fide test Documents confirming the validity of the payment must be presented. Investment-related payments Transfers of interest, dividends, other investment income, repayment of loans, and the amortization of direct investment do not require permits. Prior approval NET approval is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test Documents confirming the validity of the payment must be presented. Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Documents conf irm ing the validity of the payment must be presented. Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Documents conf irm ing the validity of the payment must be presented. Foreign workers' wages Indicative limits/bona fide test Documents conf irm ing the validity of the payment must be presented. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 930 Other payments TAJIKISTAN Indicative limits/bona fide test Documents confirming the validity of the payment must be presented. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital transactions are governed by the Law on Foreign Exchange Regulations and Foreign Exchange Control and NET regulations on the procedures on foreign exchange transactions involving capital movements. MOF approval is required for the acquisition of 10% or more of shares, irrespective of citizenship. NET notification is required for the purchase of more than 5% of shares of banks; NET approval is required for the purchase of more than 20%. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents MOF approval and NET clearance are required. Purchase abroad by residents NET approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Registration with the MOF and approval of the NET are required. Bonds or other debt securities Registration with the MOF is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Purchase abroad by residents NET approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents NET approval is required. On money market instruments NET approval is required only when these instruments are treated as securities and when payment on a bill of exchange is deferred by more than 180 days. Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Residents may purchase from nonresidents only with NET approval. Purchase abroad by residents NET approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents NET approval is required. On collective investment securities The regulations governing money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents NET approval is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents NET approval is required. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits with maturities exceeding 120 days require NET approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TAJIKISTAN 931 To residents from nonresidents Credits with maturities exceeding 180 days require NBT approval. Financial credits NBT approval for long-term loans is required. No controls apply on short-term loans. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. NBT approval is required. NBT approval is required. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents NBT approval is required. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Supporting documents must be presented to the bank effecting the transfer. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Effective July 12, 2003, banks are permitted to hold 50% of their capital in foreign exchange. Borrowing abroad Only banks licensed to conduct operations in foreign exchange may borrow from abroad. Maintenance of accounts abroad An NBT license is required to open a correspondent account. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Effective January 1, 2003, the reserve requirement is 18% for deposits in domestic and foreign currencies (previously, 20%). The limit is 20% of capital. On May 1, 2003, the quota for participation of foreign capital in the overall capital of the banking sector was reduced to 35% from 40%. The aggregate open long and short positions are limited to 20% and 10% of a bank's capi- tal, respectively. The limits on long and short positions in individual currencies are 16% and 8% of a bank's capital, respectively. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 932 TAJIKISTAN Changes During 2003 Resident accounts September 15. The restrictions on the deposit of cash into foreign currency accounts were lifted. Imports and import payments September 1. Transaction certificates were no longer required as part of import documentation. Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. The reserve requirement for deposits in domestic and foreign currencies was lowered to 18% from 20%. May 1. The quota for participation of foreign capital in the overall capital of the banking sector was reduced to 35% from 40%. July 12. Banks were permitted to hold 50% of their authorized capital in foreign exchange. Changes During 2004 Arrangements for payments and receipts February 26. The customs fee levied on imports of foreign currency by authorized banks was reduced to 0.075% from 0.15%. Resident Accounts February 26. The regulation on the priority use of balances in foreign currency was lifted, allowing account holders to debit freely from their foreign exchange accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 15, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania shilling. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external value of the shilling is determined in the interbank market. The Bank of Tanzania (BOT) intervenes in the interbank market only to smooth movements that are caused by transitory factors. No. No. Authorized dealers may enter into forward contracts for purchases and sales of foreign currencies with their customers in export and import transactions. Official cover of forward operations The BOT does not offer forward cover against exchange rate risk. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Payment in domestic currency to a nonresident requires BOT approval. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. There is an agreement with Mozambique. Tanzania participates in the SADC and the EAC. There are agreements with Kenya and Uganda. The Foreign Exchange Act vests power in the BOT to administer and manage exchange transactions both on the mainland and in Zanzibar. The BOT delegates authority to all licensed banks to make payments abroad. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Off ic ial Yes. 933 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 934 TANZANIA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Only authorized persons may buy, borrow, sell, lend, and hold or otherwise deal in gold coins and gold bullion outside Tanzania. Controls on external trade Yes. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Nonresidents are allowed to export domestic currency for numismatic purposes. Following a currency convertibility agreement reached with Uganda and Kenya, residents may carry any amount of currency across borders to settle cross-border transactions with these countries. Foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Holding of foreign currency accounts is allowed for funds acquired outside Tanzania; oth- erwise, the opening and maintaining of offshore foreign currency accounts by residents are subject to restrictions. However, banks and financial institutions registered in Tanzania are permitted to operate foreign currency accounts with foreign correspondent banks. In addi- tion, any authorized dealer bank may operate foreign currency accounts abroad on behalf of its customers. These accounts must be reported regularly to the EOT. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad n.a. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Access to these accounts is restricted to the UN and related organizations. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Yes. Nonresident accounts are maintained by foreign nationals temporarily residing in Tanzania; such accounts are to be closed upon leaving the country. Effective May 21, 2003, foreign investors may use balances in these accounts to acquire listed securities on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange. Authorized banks may credit funds to or debit funds from blocked (non-interest bearing) accounts of nonresidents with the approval of the BOT. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Only authorized dealers may make advance payments. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports The release of foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of $5,000 requires invoices, shipping documents, a single bill of entry form, and a clean report of findings. Domiciliation requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 935 Preshipment inspection A clean report of findings is necessary for import payments subject to preshipment inspec- tion. Imports of goods valued at more than the equivalent of $5,000 require a preshipment inspection document. Letters of credit Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Certain imports into the mainland from any source may be prohibited for reasons of health or security. Yes. Yes. To protect certain industries from un fa ir competition, permits and licenses are required to import tires and sugar. Customs tariffs are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports at the rates of 5%, 10%, 20%, and 25%. Low tariffs are charged on imports of machinery. Specific duties are levied on alco- holic beverages, tobacco, and petroleum products. Statutory exemptions are granted to the diplomatic corps, as well as to religious, educational, and welfare institutions. Zero rates are applicable to strategic and lead investment sectors. About 17 categories of imports from EAC member countries are subject to a 20% import surcharge (after application of the 80% general tariff preference). About 13 categories of imports from non-EAC countries are subject to import surcharges in the range of 10-40%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to repatriate their export proceeds in foreign currency to banking institutions; banks are required to report regularly to the EOT exporters failing to meet this requirement. n.r. Yes. Yes. Licenses from the respective ministries are required for the exportation from the mainland of a few items for health, sanitary, or national heritage reasons. Yes. n.r. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Relevant documentary evidence of the need for foreign exchange must be presented when purchasing foreign exchange from an authorized dealer. These documents are examined by the BOT. The release of foreign exchange for import payments requires invoices, shipping docu- ments, a clean report of findings from an authorized inspection firm, and a single bill of entry form. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments The transfer of income from investments by nonresidents is not restricted, provided all tax obligations have been met. Remittances of portfolio investments and dividends require audited reports and authenticated documents confirming payment of all taxes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 936 TANZANIA Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Travel allowances exceeding $10,000 require the presentation of documents certifying that the length of the trip is more than 40 days. Personal payments Proper documentation from the relevant educational or medical institution is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide tests apply to payment of medical costs. Foreign workers' wages Foreign workers must present work permits to receive foreign exchange. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Applicants for payment of fees related to consultancy, management, and royalty agree- ments need to furn ish contractual documents duly executed by parties thereto, relevant invoice/fee notes, and tax clearances from the Tanzania Revenue Authority certifying that tax obligations have been settled. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide tests apply to certain other payments. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions All transfers of foreign currency funds from residents to nonresidents require specific ap- proval from the BOT. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Residents may acquire from abroad and sell or transfer abroad any security or coupon on which capital, dividends, or interest are payable in foreign currency, provided that the secu- rity has been funded exclusively by externally acquired funds. The acquisition must be reported to the BOT for statistical purposes. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Effective May 21, 2003, foreign investors may purchase and sell or transfer securities listed on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchase of securities is subject to a limit of 60% of total securities an issuer. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Participation of nonresidents in the domestic money market is restricted. However, foreign companies from Kenya and Uganda may issue securities and be cross-listed at an approved stock exchange in Tanzania, subject to approval from the Capital Markets and Securities Authority. Shares issued abroad may be freely held and transferred by residents provided that such securities were acquired with externally generated funds. These purchases must be reported to the BOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls apply on all these transactions. The purchase and redemption must be done in local currency. On money market instruments The participation of nonresidents in the domestic money market is restricted. On collective investment securities Controls apply on all these transactions. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls apply on all these transactions. BOT approval is not required with respect to applications for foreign loans, overdrafts, structured external financing facilities, and deferred payment arrangements exceeding 365 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 937 Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Authorized dealers may approve these credits, but must report them to the BOT. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Realization of export proceeds beyond 180 days requires approval by a commercial bank. To residents from nonresidents Authorized dealers may approve these credits, but must report them to the BOT. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities There are no controls on these instruments if outside Tanzania, but they must be obtained through authorized dealers, and must be reported to the BOT. By residents to nonresidents Controls are in effect for the provision of sureties, guarantees, or financial backup facilities to nonresident entities, or transfer of funds to service these facilities. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment These investments require BOT approval. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Commercial banks are permitted to authorize access to foreign currency facilities for repa- triation of capital and transfer of income to foreign shareholders. Foreign direct investments exceeding $300,000 that are registered with the Tanzania Investment Center are eligible for incentives. Repatriation of capital and associated income is done through commercial banks upon presentation of audited accounts indicating declared dividends, profits, or capital to be re- patriated, plus authenticated documents from the Tanzania Revenue Authority confirming payment of all relevant taxes. Any person who owns immovable property in Tanzania may assign or transfer such prop- erty to beneficiaries abroad provided that the property was acquired through external re- sources subject to any laws in force in Tanzania. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require BOT approval. Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to the consent of the Commissioner for Lands. Sale locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to the consent of the Commissioner for Lands. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies Debt servicing-related remittances by residents require the submission of the relevant con- tract as approved by a commercial bank together with creditors' demand notes to that ef- fect. Commercial banks have to furnish the BOT with monthly reports on loans serviced. By residents to nonresidents Documentary requirements must be met. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing is subject to external debt management regulations. Otherwise, banks and f inanc ial institutions are allowed to operate credit lines with correspondents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 938 TANZANIA Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements The EOT requires that all statutory reserves be held in local currency and allows banks' averaging of daily positions and the counting of half their vault cash toward meeting the requirement. Open foreign exchange position limits The limit is 20% of core capital. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad The regulations governing the purchase abroad by residents of shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. Nonresident accounts Capital transactions Changes During 2003 May 21. Foreign investors intending to acquire the securities listed on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange were allowed access to the domestic currency accounts convertible into foreign currency. Controls on capital and money market instruments May 21. Foreign investors were allowed to acquire securities listed on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 4, 1990. Currency The currency of Thailand is the Thai baht. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the baht is determined in the foreign exchange market. The baht- dollar reference exchange rate is announced daily, based on the average exchange rate of the previous day. The authorities intervene in the foreign exchange market as conditions require. No. No. Financial institutions may engage in spot foreign exchange market transactions with non- residents in local currency. Approval is required for nonresidents to sell foreign currencies for baht for same-day delivery (value same day) and for next-day delivery (value tomor- row). Forward transactions must be related to the underlying trade and f inanc ial transac- tions. In the case of no underlying trade and investment activities in Thailand, Thai baht credit facilities, including swap and forward exchange contracts provided or obtained by a nonresident to or from all domestic financial institutions combined, are subject to a maxi- mum outstanding limit of the equivalent of B 50 million. The nonresident's head office, branches, representative offices, and affiliated companies are counted as one entity. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Baht credit facilities provided by domestic financial institutions to nonresidents by any means must be used for domestic trade or investment activities. However, financial institu- tions may provide credit facilities for other purposes, up to a limit B 50 m i l l ion an entity. Yes. Yes. Residents are not allowed to use foreign exchange for domestic payments. Thailand is a member of the ASEAN. The Bank of Thailand (BOT) administers exchange controls on behalf of the MOF, but it delegates responsibility to authorized banks for approving most transactions. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce (MOC). Banks and other f inanc ial institutions in Thailand have been instructed to freeze any movement of capital and assets of certain individuals, terrorists, and terrorist organizations pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution Nos. 1267 and 1373. In accordance with UN sanctions Yes. 939 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 940 THAILAND Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or Residents may hold and domestically trade gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold, trade Purchases or sales of gold on commodity futures exchanges are prohibited. Controls on external trade Exporters and importers of gold ornaments exceeding the equivalent of B 500,000 in value must complete foreign exchange transaction forms at customs when submitting import or export entry forms. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Travelers may take out domestic currency up to B 50,000; those traveling to Vietnam and the countries bordering Thailand are allowed to take out a maximum of B 500,000. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Approval required Yes. Approval is not required if funds originate from abroad and if, upon deposit, the depositors submit documents showing their obligation to pay in foreign currency to persons residing abroad, resident-authorized banks, the Export-Import Bank of Thailand, or the Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand within three months of the date of deposit, and they may deposit amounts not exceeding their obligations provided that foreign exchange obligations are due over the longer period. Effective July 22, 2003, this limit was increased to six months. The total outstanding balances in all accounts should not exceed the equivalents of $10 million for a juridical person and $500,000 for a natural person. Held abroad Approval required Yes. Approval is required if deposits are made with funds of domestic origin. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Effective October 14, 2003, nonresidents may maintain domestic or foreign-exchange ac- counts for settlement purposes only, while deposits held for other purposes must have a maturity of at least six months. Further, the total daily outstanding amount for all accounts may not exceed the equivalent of B 300 million a nonresident without prior approval of the BOT. Any excess funds in these accounts at the end of the day must be surrendered to the BOT at a penalty rate. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Approval required Approval is not required if funds originate from abroad, if they are transferred from other nonresidents' baht accounts, or if baht proceeds are borrowed from authorized banks. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 941 Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Importers are required to complete foreign exchange transaction forms for transactions whose value exceeds the equivalent of B 500,000 when submitting import entry forms to customs, except for certain goods, such as military equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense, donated goods, and samples. Most goods may be freely imported, but import licenses are required for certain goods. Imports of some goods are prohibited for security or social reasons. Milk product producers are required to purchase locally produced milk in some quantity when they import skim m i lk into Thailand. Ad valorem and/or specific duties are imposed on imports. In addition, special duties are levied on certain products. Tariff rates between zero and 5% apply to two-thirds of the tariff lines for goods imported from AFTA countries. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds exceeding the equivalent of B 500,000 must be repatriated immediately after payment is received and within 120 days from the date of export. Foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks within seven days of receipt. Foreign exchange earners are allowed to deposit foreign exchange in their foreign currency accounts only if they have obligations to pay out such amounts to nonresidents abroad within three months of the deposit date provided that foreign exchange obligations are due over the longer period. On July 22, 2003, this limit was increased to six months. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Exporters are required to complete a foreign exchange transaction form for transactions exceeding the equivalent of B 500,000 when submitting the export entry form at customs. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports of rice, canned tuna, sugar, certain types of coal and charcoal, and textile products are subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions and, in a few cases, to prior approval, irrespective of destination. All other products may be exported freely. Yes. Yes. Exports of wood, wood articles, and hides are subject to ad valorem or specific duties. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Foreign exchange transaction forms must be completed for transactions of more than the equivalent of $10,000. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or retained in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand within seven days of receipt. Travelers passing through Thailand, foreign embassies, and international organizations are exempt from this requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 942 THAILAND Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents The sale or issue of securities is under the jurisdiction of the Securities Exchange Commis- sion (SEC). Under the securities law, rules and regulations d i f fer according to types of securities and their maturity. Companies wishing to issue securities to the public need ap- proval from the EOT and the SEC. Trading of securities in secondary markets requires registration with the Stock Exchange of Thailand. Foreign equity participation is limited to 25% of the total amount of shares sold in locally incorporated banks, finance companies, credit finance companies, and asset management companies. The combined shareholdings of an individual and related family members may not exceed 5% of a bank's total amount of shares sold and 10% of that of finance compa- nies and credit foncier companies. Foreign equity participation is limited to 49% for other Thai corporations. Foreign investors are allowed to hold more than 49% of the total shares sold in local financial institutions for up to 10 years, after which the amount of shares will be grandfathered, and the nonresidents will not be allowed to purchase new shares until the percentage of shares held by them is brought down to 49%. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases of shares under employee stock option plans exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 are allowed without EOT approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents Approval is required under the regulations governing domestic issuance. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require the approval of the MOF, EOT, and SEC. Purchase abroad by residents Purchases require the approval of the EOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents The potential issuer must submit an application for approval to the SEC, and permission will be granted if the issuer can prove that the security will be traded exclusively on primary or secondary markets abroad. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require the approval of the EOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. However, finance companies are allowed to issue negotiable certificates of deposit and bills of exchange in foreign currency with more than a one-year maturity for sale to the public abroad or for sale to institutions that are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The transfer of proceeds associated with these issues or the transfer of funds required to service these instruments may be made freely. There are no controls on the purchase of securities offered by local fund management companies. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require the approval of the EOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents The offering of funds, both locally and abroad, requires approval from the SEC and only local fund management companies are granted permission. In addition, funds managed by local firms will be deemed to have Thai nationality regardless of the nationality of the ma- jority of the un it holders. The transfer of proceeds and the transfer of funds required to service these instruments may be made freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 943 Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents In cases where there are no underlying trade and investment activities in Thailand, Thai baht credit facilities, including swap and forward exchange contracts obtained by a nonresident from all domestic financial institutions combined, are subject to a maximum outstanding limit of B 50 million. The nonresident's head office, branches, representative offices, and affiliated companies are counted as one entity. The issuance of warrants or equity-related instruments and bonds by nonresidents in the local market is subject to approval by the SEC. The approval criteria are based on the soundness of the underlying stock. There is no penalty for nonresidents for participating in the financial market. Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of derivative instruments by residents and the transfer of funds require BOT approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale of derivative instruments by residents and the transfer of funds require BOT approval. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment In cases where there are no underlying trade and investment activities in Thailand, Thai baht credit fac i l i t ies in the form of derivatives obtained by a nonresident from all domestic financial institutions combined are subject to a max imum outstanding l im it of B 50 m i l l ion. Effective September 12, 2003, the BOT imposed a l im it of B 50 m i l l ion on the amount that nonresidents may deposit with domestic banks. The limit applies to loans to nonresidents without underlying transactions with maturities of less than three months. The nonresi- dent's head office, branches, representative offices, and affiliated companies are counted as one entity. Financial institutions are allowed to extend direct loans in Thai baht with collat- eral to nonresident natural persons permitted to work in Thailand for not less than one year. Financial institutions may issue letters of guarantee to nonresidents when there is a stand- by LC from a financial institution abroad. Direct loans in Thai baht may be made to entities in neighboring countries (i.e., Cambodia, southern parts of China, the Lao People's Democ- ratic Republic, Myanmar, and Vietnam) under specified conditions and with prior BOT approval. Credits may be contracted in the form of deferred payments, bilateral netting, or open accounts. Most payments are settled within 120 days of the exportation of goods. Only authorized banks are allowed to grant financial credits, subject to the rule of net for- eign exchange position. Without approval from the BOT, residents may grant only loans of up to $10 million (or the equivalent) a year to their affiliated companies, provided that they own at least 10% of total shares in the company. There is no control on these credits. Repayment of financial credits to nonresidents may be made freely as long as residents have an obligation to pay nonresidents in foreign currency and the proceeds of credit are repatriated. Resident banks are allowed to guarantee transactions by nonresidents when undertaking bids or performance bonds to government agencies, state enterprises, or other legal persons in Thailand. However, resident banks must be provided with stand-by LCs from financial institutions abroad as collateral of nonresidents (back-to-back guarantee). Investments exceeding $10 million (or the equivalent) a year require BOT approval. Foreign capital may be brought into the country without restriction, but proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or deposited in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand within seven days of receipt. Controls on liquidation of direct investment All proceeds may be repatriated without restriction upon submission of supporting evidence. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 944 THAILAND Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Thai residents may purchase immovable assets for residential purposes up to the equivalent of $500,000 per person without approval of the EOT. The purchase of property with funds that originate from abroad is not allowed. The foreign ownership limit for condominiums without BOT approval is 49% of the total value. Ownership of property by foreign entities with majority shares in Thai financial institutions is, at present, governed by the Commercial Banking Act and the Act on the Undertaking of Finance Business, Securities Business, and Credit Foncier Business. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Thai residents are allowed, without approval from the BOT, to send up to the equivalent of $100,000 to relatives abroad who hold permanent resident permits. Thai emigrants are allowed to transfer abroad up to the equivalent of $ 1 million a year without BOT approval. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Gambling is illegal in Thailand. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions In cases in which there are no underlying trade and investment activities in Thailand, Thai baht credit instruments in any form obtained by a nonresident from all domestic financial institutions combined are subject to a maximum outstanding limit of B 50 million. The nonresident's head office, branches, representative offices, and affiliated companies are counted as one entity. Baht lending (direct loans) to nonresidents with or without underly- ing transactions or collateral is prohibited, except that lending to natural persons is allowed under specified conditions and lending to entities in neighboring countries requires BOT approval. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Government financial institutions, except the Export-Import Bank of Thailand, are not al- lowed to practice foreign lending activities. Authorized banks in Thailand may lend to non- residents in foreign currency without restriction. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks Commercial lending denominated in foreign currencies to particular industries may be par- tially (50%) included as foreign assets in order to recognize the potential risk that banks may not be fully repaid as exchange rate risk rises. Commercial banks may purchase locally issued securities denominated in foreign ex- change. Finance companies without foreign exchange licenses are required to obtain BOT permission for purchases of locally issued securities in foreign exchange. Commercial banks are required to maintain at least 6% of their nonresident foreign ex- change deposits in the form of (1) nonremunerated balance at the BOT (at least 2%); (2) vault cash (at most 2.5%); and (3) eligible securities (the rest). Finance and securities companies are not allowed to accept foreign exchange deposits. Effective October 14, 2003, interest may not be paid on nonresident accounts, except for fixed accounts with maturities of at least six months. Commercial banks are allowed to buy or hold shares in a limited company (including public companies) in an amount not exceeding 10% of the total shares sold and 20% of their capital fund. Banks may seek approval to hold shares above the 10% limit in the following cases: (1) companies set up for supporting functions; (2) companies that operate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 945 as financial arms, such as leasing companies and factoring companies; (3) companies set up to manage foreclosed properties; and (4) companies set up to manage projects that are beneficial to the economy, especially infrastructure projects. Permission is generally granted to commercial banks to hold between 10% and 20% of the total number of distributed shares of any limited company that is its debtor. Effective December 31, 2003, the automatic granting of permission for commercial banks to hold ordinary or preference shares of a limited company that is its debtor was discontinued. The value of these shares may exceed 20% of the bank's capital funds only if the excess portion was acquired in a debt restructuring process under EOT guidelines. Foreign investors may invest in Thai commercial banks up to 25% of the total amount of shares sold. Foreign investors may be allowed, on a case-by-case basis, to hold up to 100% of shares sold in commercial banks, finance companies, and credit foncier companies for a period of 10 years, which will be grandfathered. However, after the 10-year period, they will not be allowed to purchase additional shares unless their holding is less than 49% of the total amount of shares sold. The regulation on net foreign exchange exposure limits allows commercial banks to maintain positions in terms of their first-tier capital of no more than 15% oversold or overbought. In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Approval of the EOT is required. Effective July 23, 2003, life insurance companies, the government pension fund, the social security fund, mutual funds (excluding private funds), provident funds, and specialized financial institutions may submit applications to the EOT to invest in debt securities issued prior to January 1, 2003, by the Thai government and corporates and in sovereign or quasi- sovereign debt securities issued by nonresidents ranked by international credit rating agen- cies as investment grade. The aggregate limit is the equivalent of $2,450 million a year. Previously, mutual funds and pension funds had to invest their total portfolio in the domes- tic market. The criteria for insurance companies to invest abroad are as follows: (1) the fund may be invested in equity and securities or debt instruments issued by juridical per- sons incorporated under the ASEAN Agreement of the United Nations Economic and So- cial Commission for Asia and the Pacific specifically for reinsurance; and (2) the funds may be invested in equity issued by nonresident juridical persons other than specified in (1), with approval from the authorities, and by using the surplus funds. Total investments under (1) and (2) must not exceed 5% of total assets. Portfolio investment of life and non-life insurance companies is governed by the acts and notifications of the MOC. The criteria are as follows: (1) total investment in equity and securities or debt instruments, stock of other life and non-life insurance companies, and unit trusts should not exceed 40% of total assets; (2) rediscount of state enterprise bonds guaranteed by the MOF is unlimited; and (3) investment in securities abroad requires approval from the appropriate authority, which is granted on a case-by-case basis. The criteria for investment of pension funds are as follows: (1) investment of at least 60% in government bonds, state enterprise bonds, deposits at commercial banks, and debt instruments issued by commercial banks; and (2) investment of not more than 40% in promissory notes of finance companies, stocks, and other debt instruments. In addition, the ceiling on investment in stocks is 25% of the portfolio, and that on any single stock is 5% of the portfolio. Under the Securities Act, nonresidents may invest in Thai security companies, subject to the restriction that foreign investors be limited to 50% of nonvoting depository receipts. Foreign security companies are permitted access to the Thai securities market in the form of representative offices whose role is limited to providing research material for their parent companies. In addition, they are allowed to enter into joint partnership with Thai security companies and to provide professional consultancy services. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 946 THAILAND Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Exports and export proceeds Capital transactions Controls on credit operations Changes During 2003 July 22. The period for which foreign exchange derived from exports and certain other transactions may be deposited in resident foreign exchange accounts was extended to six months from three months, provided that foreign exchange obligations are due over the longer period. October 14. Accounts held by nonresidents were made subject to a maximum daily limit of the equivalent of B 300 million an account unless prior approval has been granted by the EOT. July 22. The period for which foreign exchange derived from exports and certain other transactions may be deposited in resident foreign exchange accounts was extended to six months from three months, provided that foreign exchange obligations are due over the longer period. September 12. The EOT imposed a limit of B 50 million on the amount that nonresidents may deposit with domestic banks. The limit applies to loans to nonresidents without underlying transactions with maturities of less than three months. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions October 14. Financial institutions could no longer pay interest on nonresident accounts, except for fixed accounts with maturities of at least six months. Provisions specific to institutional investors December 31. The automatic granting of permission for commercial banks to hold ordinary or preference shares of a limited company that is its debtor was discontinued. July 23. Life insurance companies, the government pension fund, the social security fund, mutual funds (excluding private funds), provident funds, and specialized financial institu- tions were allowed to invest in debt securities issued prior to January 1, 2003, by the Thai government and corporates and in sovereign or quasi-sovereign debt securities issued by nonresidents ranked by international credit rating agencies as investment grade, subject to an aggregate limit of the equivalent of $2,450 million a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TIMOR-LESTE (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 23, 2002. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Timor-Leste is the U.S. dollar. On November 10, 2003, Timorese coins were introduced. These are legally convertible to U.S. dollars at par. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely. Foreign exchange transactions are ef- fected through three foreign-owned commercial banks and one licensed currency exchange bureau. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Yes. All transactions must be effected in dollars. Payments arrangements No. Administration of control Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange controls rests with the Banking and Payments Authority (BPA), which has the power to regulate the payment and settle- ment system for domestic and foreign currency. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The BPA reserves the right to regulate exports and imports of foreign and domestic bank- notes. On imports Foreign currency Effective November 13, 2003, restrictions on imports of foreign currencies were elimi- nated. Previously, imports of currencies exceeding the equivalent of $2,000 were prohibited without a permit from the BPA, and imports of currencies whose issuers maintain export restrictions were limited to the equivalent of $500 without BPA approval. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts 947 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 948 Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency TIMOR-LESTE No restrictions apply on the holding of foreign exchange accounts, but withdrawals from these accounts must be made in dollars. Yes. Yes. Withdrawals from bank accounts in foreign currencies are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Withdrawals from bank accounts in foreign currencies are prohibited. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs No. No. No. No. With the exception of selected items (e.g., cigarettes and alcohol—with certain limits—and the household effects of returning former residents), a uniform ad valorem tariff of 6% is levied on all imports, and excise taxes are levied on imports of selected goods at specific or ad valorem rates of 10-170% depending on the types of goods. A sales tax of 6% is levied on the combined value of customs assessment, import duty, and excise tax. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TIMOR-LESTE 949 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Domestic capital and money markets have not yet been developed. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions Ownership of land by foreigners is prohibited. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Yes. Yes. No. Lending locally in foreign exchange All domestic transactions must be made in dollars. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws All domestic transactions must be made in dollars. No. No. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement November 10. Timorese coins were introduced. Arrangements for payments and receipts November 13. The limits on imports of foreign currencies were lifted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Togo is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Exchange tax The CFA franc is pegged to the euro, the intervention currency, at the rate of CFAF 655.957 per €1, which is the official buying and selling rate. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris foreign exchange market and the fixed rate between the euro and the CFA franc. There is a bank commission of 0.25% on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered to the treasury. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Residents are authorized to contract forward exchange cover to settle payments related to imports and exports of goods and services. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Togo is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account; therefore, settlements with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries (WAEMU and CAEMC members and the Comoros) are made mainly in euros, but may also be made in other foreign currencies. Settlements outside the Operations Account area may be conducted freely. An Operations Account is maintained with the French Treasury that links Operations Ac- count countries. Most purchases or sales of foreign currencies or euros against CFA francs are ultimately settled through a debit or credit to the Operations Account. A multilateral clearing agreement exists between the WAEMU members and Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. Exchange control is administered jointly by the MOF and the BCEAO. Regulations govern- ing the external financial relations of WAEMU member states delegate the approval proc- ess for most foreign exchange transactions to authorized banks. The only transactions that remain subject to the prior authorization of the MOF and the BCEAO relate to outward direct investment, domestic foreign exchange accounts, and accounts of residents abroad. Within the framework of the regional financial market, the issue, soliciting, and sale of foreign or domestic securities in Togo is subject to the prior approval of the RCPSFM. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Yes. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the MOF. 950 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency TOGO 951 The export of CFA franc banknotes by travelers is allowed. However, repurchase of ex- ported banknotes by the BCEAO remains suspended. Furthermore, the shipment of BCEAO banknotes between authorized intermediaries and their correspondents located outside the WAEMU is strictly prohibited. The reexportation of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits in local banks. Residents traveling to non-WAEMU countries are allowed to take out foreign currency up to the equivalent of CFAF 2 m i l l ion a person. Larger amounts may be exported in the form of traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Nonresidents bring- ing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 1 m i l l ion must declare them to customs when entering Togo. Residents bringing in foreign banknotes exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 300,000 must surrender the excess amount to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days of their return. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts with local banks or with banks abroad after obtaining authorization from the MOF, subsequent to the approval of the BCEAO. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.a. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are allowed to open these accounts, but BCEAO authorization is required. Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the WAEMU area, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO bank- notes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without prior MOF authorization. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Convertible into foreign currency Nonresidents may debit freely their accounts in francs for the purpose of purchasing foreign currency on the off ic ial foreign exchange market. Blocked accounts No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 952 TOGO Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Importers may purchase foreign exchange for import payments after establishing bank payment order accounts and submitting supporting documents, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been imported. A domiciliation requirement applies to all imports from outside the franc zone that exceed CFAF 5 million. All imports arriving by sea and exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 3 million, and overland imports exceeding CFAF 1.5 million, are subject to prior inspection. Letters of credit LCs may be opened for all import operations, regardless of origin. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Open general licenses Yes. Licenses are issued for imports of Pharmaceuticals, explosives, and firearms. Imports of potatoes may be prohibited during the period when local production is adequate to meet local demand (between August and February). Other nontariff measures Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from any source. Import taxes and/or tariffs The CET of the WAEMU consists of four rates (zero, 5%, 10%, and 20%). A common solidarity fee of 1% and a tax of 0.5%, based on the c.i.f. value of imports, are levied on ECOWAS imports. A statistical tax of 1% is levied on all imports. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports must be received within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. Proceeds from exports to WAEMU countries do not need to be repatriated. Proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks within 30 days of the payment. The au- thorized intermediaries must then surrender the foreign exchange to the BCEAO by transfer through the bank of issue. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements All export transactions are subject to a customs declaration. Letters of credit Domiciliation Yes. All exports of more than the equivalent of CFAF 5 million, except those to WAEMU countries, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Other export taxes Diamonds, gold, and all other precious metals are subject to MOF authorization. Exports to all countries require licenses in certain cases. Yes. Phosphate rock is subject to a specific export tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 953 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization, when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Payments abroad for invisible transactions may be made freely, subject to the presentation of documentary evidence. Current transfers abroad of funds required to service loans are unrestricted. These must, however, be carried out through an authorized bank and are to be reported for statistical purposes to the MOF. Payments for depreciation of direct investments require prior au- thorization from the MOF, since this type of depreciation is not specifically mentioned in the regulations. Funds necessary for the repayment of a loan may be transferred freely, but this must be effected through an authorized bank and reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Indicative limits/bona fide test The MOF verifies transactions that require its authorization. Payments for travel Quantitative limits Allocations for payments exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 2 million may be taken out in traveler's checks, bank drafts, or other means of payment. The threshold of foreign exchange to be surrendered by residents after travel is the equivalent of CFAF 300,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments There is no control on the payment of pensions. There are no limits on transfers related to studies abroad, family maintenance, or alimony. However, such payments must be made through an authorized bank upon presentation of the appropriate documentation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Foreign workers' wages Payments abroad related to wages, salaries, and honoraria; contributions and benefits; pensions and work-related activities; and service contracts are generally authorized upon presentation of the appropriate documentation. Indicative limits/bona fide test Bona fide tests are conducted by authorized agents. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisible transactions with non-WAEMU member countries must be repatriated. Proceeds from transactions with WAEMU members may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries with respect to services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Capital Transactions All investments abroad by residents require prior MOF authorization, and at least 75% of the financing of such investments should be effected by borrowing from abroad. Authoriza- tion is not required in the case of capital transfers for investments of residents abroad in- volving securities that were previously issued or sold with the approval of the RCPSFM. Transfers of capital abroad are subject to controls. Capital inflows to WAEMU countries are unrestricted, with the exception of direct investment, which is subject to prior declara- tion, and certain borrowing operations, which require prior authorization. In the implementation of regulations on capital transactions, the term "foreigner" refers to all non-WAEMU countries with respect to limiting the open positions of banks and financial institutions and with respect to the following operations: repatriation of export proceeds; issue and sale of foreign securities; exports and imports of gold; foreign direct ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 954 TOGO Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Sale or issue locally by nonresidents investments; credit operations with nonresidents; and exports through the post by means of payment related to transactions in securities. For statistical purposes related to the compilation of the balance of payments of an individual WAEMU member, all other countries are considered foreign. With the exception of the issue and sale in the country of foreign securities, operations in securities are not covered explicitly by specific laws. However, by their nature, these opera- tions are still subject to the provisions governing foreign investment and lending. There are no controls on transfers related to the proceeds of disinvestments by nonresi- dents. However, the reinvestment of proceeds from the liquidation of a foreign investment by a resident requires prior MOF authorization. Foreign investments in WAEMU countries are subject to reporting for statistical purposes. The prior authorization of the RCPSFM is required for the issuance and marketing of securities and capital assets of foreign entities, as well as for publicity and advertising of investments abroad. Any investment by residents abroad requires the prior approval of the MOF. The issue of securities and the sale of corporate or foreign securities in Togo by nonresi- dents are subject to prior RCPSFM authorization. Residents may purchase freely securities that have been previously authorized for issue and sale. Payments related to such purchases require presentation of the appropriate documentation. There are no controls on the sale of securities resulting from the divestiture of an invest- ment in the form of a transfer between a nonresident and a resident, subject to the regula- tions governing the financial settlement of the operation. Settlement of securities transactions by transfer abroad or by credit to a nonresident account requires an exchange authorization to be submitted to the MOF for approval, accompanied by supporting documentation. Purchase abroad by residents Prior MOF authorization is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may sell local corporate securities abroad. If these operations result in foreign control of Togolese establishments, foreign investors are required to make a prior declara- tion to the MOF. The sale of securities to liquidate an investment abroad is subject to prior declaration to the MOF. The proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. Residents may also issue securities abroad, except for those constituting a loan. Issuance of the latter to nonresidents must be made through an authorized intermediary and must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes, but does not require prior authorization. Bonds or other debt securities The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire money market instruments through local banks. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue by nonresidents of money market instruments on the local market is sub- ject to prior authorization by the RCPSFM. The transfer of the proceeds from these opera- tions is unrestricted if the issue itself has received prior authorization, and must be effected through an authorized bank and reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are no controls on the sale of money market instruments abroad by residents. Sales to liquidate an investment must be declared in advance. The proceeds in foreign exchange of the sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. The issue by residents of money market instruments abroad is governed by the provisions pertaining to borrowing. On collective investment securities The regulations governing money market instruments apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 955 Controls on derivatives and other instruments These instruments, which are almost nonexistent in Togo, are governed by the regulations generally applicable to securities and investments. Residents may purchase and sell options freely. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents The issue of a loan in the form of securities requires prior approval by the MOF. Such ap- proval is not required, however, for loans contracted by authorized intermediaries or those that comply with specific conditions as to amount and interest rate. Foreign borrowing by residents is subject only to reporting for statistical purposes. Granting of such credits is subject to two provisions. (1) Claims resulting from exports of goods must be collected and the corresponding amounts repatriated through the BCEAO within 30 days of the payment due date stipulated in the commercial contract. Generally, the period allowed for payment must not exceed 120 days following the arrival of the merchandise at its destination. (2) Claims resulting from services must also be collected and surrendered to an authorized dealer or the BCEAO no later than one month after the payment due date. These credits may be freely granted. Repayment is usually authorized, subject to presenta- tion of the relevant proof of execution of the commercial transaction or the provision of the service, as well as the payment due date. The granting of financial credits requires the prior authorization of the MOF. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these facilities, an exchange authorization must be submitted with the required documentation to the MOF. These credits may be granted freely. Transfers of the funds must be processed through an authorized intermediary. However, if these operations take place between a direct investment company established in Togo and its parent company located abroad, they are considered direct investments and are therefore subject to prior declaration to the MOF. The granting of these facilities requires prior MOF authorization. The regulations governing financial credits apply. Prior MOF approval is required. At least 75% of such investments must be financed by foreign loans. The investor must submit a written request specifying the authorized inter- mediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited to a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. These investments, including their transfer between nonresidents, are subject to prior declaration to the MOF for statistical purposes. Proceeds may be freely transferred abroad by a nonresident or credited to a foreign account in francs upon presentation of the required documentation to an authorized intermediary responsible for payment. The liquidation of investments abroad by a resident requires a declaration to the MOF for information purposes. The reinvestment of the proceeds of the liquidation is subject to the prior authorization of the MOF. If the reinvestment has not been authorized, the proceeds of the liquidation must be repatriated within one month through an authorized intermediary. Real estate investment abroad by residents is subject to prior approval by the MOF. The investor must submit a written request indicating the authorized intermediary charged with making the payment. Whether the funds are transferred abroad or deposited in a foreign account in francs, the payment may not be made before the end of the period agreed to by the parties. There are controls on purchases when they do not involve direct investment in an enterprise, branch, or corporation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 956 TOGO Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents Proceeds from the sale of real estate may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a for- eign account in francs upon presentation of the required documentation to the authorized intermediary responsible for payment. Personal capital transactions between residents and nonresidents must be made through the BCEAO, the Postal Service, or an authorized intermediary bank, unless prior authorization is obtained from the MOF. These transactions require the prior authorization of the MOF. The individuals concerned may not engage in such operations as a professional occupation without first being licensed and included in the list of financial institutions. To residents from nonresidents These credits may be granted freely on the condition that they be effected through an authorized bank and reported to the MOF. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents Except for inheritances and dowries, for which payments are generally authorized, pay- ments pertaining to other Operations Account countries require prior MOF authorization. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Immigrants who have obtained resident status must obtain prior authorization from the MOF to settle debts incurred abroad while they were nonresidents. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Credit controls Upon presentation of documents justifying their income, emigrants may transfer their pen- sions, rents, or salaries freely through banks. Transfers of more than CFAF 300,000 are subject to the submission of supporting documentation. Authorized intermediaries may borrow freely abroad, but these transactions must be reported to the MOF for statistical purposes. Banks and financial institutions are not authorized to keep liquid assets outside the WAEMU zone, except to meet the needs of their current operations. These transactions may be conducted freely but are subject to prior MOF and BCEAO authorization in the case of loans, financial credits, and the purchase of securities issued abroad. Domestic lending denominated in foreign exchange or the purchase of foreign currency- denominated securities in Togo requires prior authorization by the MOF with approval of the BCEAO. These purchases require prior MOF approval. Any overdraft or advance granted to a nonresident requires the prior authorization of the MOF with the approval of the BCEAO. Investment regulations The regulations governing foreign investments apply. Open foreign exchange position limits There are no prudential ratios; open positions result from special dispensations. Provisions specific to institutional investors Controls are imposed by the Insurance Code of the Inter-African Conference on Insurance Markets. Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1991. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Tonga is the Tongan pa'anga. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements The external value of the pa'anga is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of cur- rencies comprising the Australian dollar (19%), the Japanese yen (6%), the New Zealand dollar (23%), and the U.S. dollar (52%). The exchange rate of the pa'anga in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed monthly by the National Reserve Bank of Tonga (NRBT) within a band of ±5%. No. No. Effective January 1, 2003, commercial banks may provide forward exchange cover for exporters and importers up to the equivalent of US$2 million a bank in gross. Previously, the limit was T$l million. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no particular requirements, but settlements are normally made in convertible currencies acceptable to both parties. Tonga participates in PACER and PICTA. Administration of control The NRBT administers foreign exchange control regulations. The NRBT delegates to authorized dealers approval authority for current payments and transfers not exceeding T$50,000. All payments exceeding T$50,000 require the prior ap- proval of the NRBT. All capital transfers require the prior approval of the NRBT. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident individuals are allowed to open foreign exchange accounts. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. 957 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 958 TONGA Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. Yes. Yes. No.' No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Authorized dealers may, without reference to the NRBT, approve applications for import transactions for amounts not exceeding T$50,000 or its equivalent. The prior approval of the NRBT is required for transactions in excess of T$50,000. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are required for selected imports, such as motor vehicles, firearms, and explosives. Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of noxious gases and fireworks are prohibited. Import quotas apply only to fresh eggs and are intended to protect domestic producers, but these restrictions are currently not enforced. Imports of certain items are restricted for cultural, environmental, health, or security reasons. Ad valorem import tariffs on most goods range up to 35%. Imports of a few items (petro- leum, tobacco, and alcoholic beverages) are subject to either specific or ad valorem rates of up to 525%. The tariff rate on motor vehicles is 45%. Imports by the government, the pub- lic sector, and diplomatic missions of certain goods under technical assistance agreements, and of personal effects, are exempt from tariffs. Imports are also subject to a 20% port and services tax, except for items covered under the Industrial Development Incentives Act, which qualify for concessional rates, and for imports by governmental and quasi- governmental organizations, which are exempt. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All export proceeds must be repatriated within 12 months, but this regulation is currently not enforced. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Licenses are required for all exports weighing more than 10 kilograms. Licenses are granted liberally, except for exports of squash. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA 959 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Authorized dealers may, without reference to the NRBT, provide foreign exchange for invisible payments up to the equivalent of T$50,000. The prior approval of the NRBT, with submission of supporting documentation, is required for payments in excess of T$50,000. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Prior approval of the NRBT is required for all capital transactions. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls apply to all transactions in capital and money market intruments. Controls apply to all these transactions. Controls on credit operations Controls apply to all these transactions. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 960 TONGA Inward direct investment Licenses are required for foreign direct investment. High-technology projects are readily approved. Intermediate projects are approved if there is a local partner. Investment is al- lowed in certain sectors, including wholesale and retail, transportation, some tourism- related activities, and all resource-based activities (such as fishing). Joint ventures may be allowed if the project is deemed beneficial to the country. The time period for the approval process is normally about one week. Once licensed, foreign projects in manufacturing and tourism are eligible for all incentives. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Maintenance of accounts abroad A l im it of T$l million applies on commercial banks' total net nostro account balances. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. Exchange arrangement January 1. Commercial banks were allowed to provide forward cover for exporters and importers up to the equivalent of US$2 million a bank. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 13, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trinidad and Tobago dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control The Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago (CBTT) allows the exchange rate to move within a narrow range and maintains an informal ceiling on the exchange rate of TTS6.30 per US$1. No. No. Banks are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions, both spot and forward, with the public without limitation. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements may be made in Canadian dollars, euros, Japanese yen, Myanmar kyats, Nor- wegian kroner, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. The Trinidad and Tobago dollar is the legal tender of the country. Only authorized dealers are allowed to buy, sell, borrow, or lend foreign currency to any person other than an au- thorized dealer without the permission of the CBTT. Trinidad and Tobago is a member of the CARICOM. Trinidad and Tobago is the agent for the inoperative Caribbean Multilateral Clearing Facility. Authority to administer exchange control is vested in the CBTT acting under the authority o f t h eMOF. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents are permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins for numismatic purposes. Unless specifically permitted by the MOF, one party to transactions in gold between resi- dents must be an authorized bank. Controls on external trade Exports of gold are controlled by the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) and are subject to specific export licenses, which are normally issued only to monetary authorities. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency For amounts exceeding TT$20,000, a customs declaration is required. For amounts exceeding the equivalent of US$5,000, a customs declaration is required. 961 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 962 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents and nonresidents may bring in up to TT$20,000 freely, but for larger amounts a customs declaration is required. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in banknotes up to the equivalent of US$5,000 freely; for larger amounts a customs declaration is required. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.r. n.r. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Duty-free licenses are granted to local concessionary manufacturers for imports of certain inputs for manufacturing. Negative list Open general licenses Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Imports of firearms, ammunition, and narcotics are tightly controlled. All goods, unless exempted for reasons of health or security, may be imported under OGL arrangements. All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Imports of meat, live ani- mals, plants, and mining materials are subject to specific regulations. In accordance with the fourth phase of the CARICOM GET, the customs duty rates on most goods range from 5% to 20%. The rate on agricultural produce is 40%. The duty rates on new motor vehicles range from 25% to 45%. All goods originating from CARICOM coun- tries are exempt from duties, as are imports of some foodstuffs, fertilizers, and raw materi- als. Local enterprises producing import substitutes or export goods may be granted exemp- tions from customs duties by the MTI and the Tourism Industrial Development Company, Ltd. Imports of animal feed, flour, rice, petroleum, and edible oils are traded principally by state companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 963 Repatriation requirements In practice, the foreign-owned petroleum company operating in Trinidad and Tobago repa- triates all foreign exchange after providing for the equivalent of its local currency needs. Exports and Export Proceeds Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Individual licenses are required for some foodstuffs, firearms and explosives, animals, gold, petroleum and petroleum products, and certain products not produced locally. Export li- censes for all other commodities are granted under OGLs. General licenses may also be issued at the discretion of the MTI. Most export licenses are granted without quotas. Quotas are sometimes established for the export of some products, such as fish, on the basis of local supply. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Cross-border trading of shares of companies listed on the respective stock exchanges is permitted among the residents of Barbados, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago; residents and companies of the first two countries are designated as residents of Trinidad and Tobago for exchange control purposes in cross-border trading. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Holding shares in local companies is subject to compliance with the provisions of the Financial Institutions Act. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. Holding shares in local companies is subject to compliance with the provisions of the Foreign Investment Act. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Holding interest in real estate is subject to compliance with the provisions of the Foreign Investment Act. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 964 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Effective October 22, 2003, the reserve requirement applicable to domestic currency depos- its in banks is 14% (previously, 18%). A supplemental reserve requirement of 5% applies, which can be held in treasury securities. A reserve requirement of 9% applies to nonbank institutions. Liquid asset requirements A liquid asset ratio of 20% on foreign currency deposits is required. Open foreign exchange position limits Licensed institutions are required to maintain a minimum capital position equal to 10% of their net currency exposure. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Capital transactions Yes. Yes. Yes. Insurance companies are required to hold at least 80% of their investment assets locally. The Insurance Act imposes other controls. Changes During 2003 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions October 22. The reserve requirement applicable to domestic currency deposits in banks was reduced to 14% from 18%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: January 6, 1993. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian dinar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Crawling peg Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Tunisian dinar is determined in the interbank market in which commercial banks, including offshore banks acting on behalf of their resident customers, conduct transactions at freely negotiated rates. There is no limit on the spread between the buying and selling rates. The Central Bank of Tunisia (CBT) intervenes in the market and publishes an indicative interbank exchange rate for foreign currencies and banknotes by the following day. The CBT pursues a real effective exchange rate rule. Resident banks trade freely in foreign currencies in the spot market among themselves, with their foreign correspondents, and with nonresident banks in Tunisia. No. No. Importers and exporters are authorized to obtain forward exchange cover on the interbank market as of the date the contract is signed or the date on which the foreign commercial paper is domiciled, depending on the arrangements for the product concerned. Forward rates are freely negotiated by the authorized counterpart bank. Forward cover may be estab- lished for up to 12 months for imports and up to 9 months for exports. Persons who provide services are eligible for exchange cover for up to 12 months, to be provided within 30 days of the date on which the claim originated. Resident enterprises may purchase, in the for- ward market, futures maturing in up to 12 months to hedge against exchange risks related to the repayment of their foreign currency loans. They may also sell, for terms of up to 12 months, the foreign currency from drawings on external loans or from foreign currency investments. Nonresidents may enter into contracts with resident licensed intermediaries for forward purchases of convertible dinars, maturing in up to 12 months. Resident licensed intermediaries may engage in, among themselves or with resident enterprises, foreign currency/convertible dinar swaps, maturing in up to 12 months. They may also engage in foreign currency/convertible dinar swaps with nonresident banks operating in Tunisia, their foreign correspondent banks, and nonresident enterprises operating in Tunisia, to make spot purchases and forward sales of convertible dinars. For the purposes of hedging against foreign currency interest rate risks, forward rate agreements may be signed for terms of 12 months by resident enterprises with foreign correspondent banks and by resident enterprises with resident banks and nonresident banks operating in Tunisia. Residents contracting such foreign currency loans may also purchase 3-, 6-, and 12-month foreign currency options in dollars or euros. Options in other currencies may be listed on request. Licensed intermediaries may set the forward exchange rates for foreign currencies against dinars applied to customers' forward transactions in accordance with the procedures followed in international markets. Official cover of forward operations The national reinsurance company manages this exchange cover mechanism for banks and financial institutions with respect to their borrowing abroad. 965 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 966 TUNISIA Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements between Tunisia and other countries may be made in any convertible currency (traded in the interbank market) or in convertible Tunisian dinars through foreign accounts. Payments to Israel are prohibited. Settlements between Tunisia and Algeria, Libya, Mauritania, and Morocco may be effected through convertible accounts in the national currencies concerned at the respective central banks. Controls on the use of domestic currency Payments in dinars may be made abroad through a convertible dinar foreign account maintained domestically in the name of the foreign creditors or of their banks. For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents The dinar is the currency of account and the currency of payment in transactions among residents, unless otherwise authorized by the CBT, subsequent to approval from the MOF. Payments arrangements No. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the CBT and the Ministry of Trade (MOT). The CBT delegates authority over payments for imports and most invisibles to the authorized banks, whereas the MOT administers foreign trade control, which entails issuing import and ex- port authorization for the remaining products not covered by the liberalization of foreign trade. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade The CBT has a monopoly over the importation and exportation of monetary gold. Imports and exports of gold in other forms require jo int approval from the CBT and the MOT. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Exports of banknotes and coins are prohibited. Nonresident travelers wishing to reexport the foreign exchange equivalent of amounts exceeding D 1,000 must declare to customs the foreign currencies they are importing upon their entry into Tunisia. There is no ceiling on the reconversion of Tunisian banknotes by nonresident travelers. Foreign exchange from dinar reconversion may be reexported upon presentation of a foreign exchange voucher or receipt if the amount to be reexported is less than D 1,000 or if the foreign exchange used in the purchase of the dinars was received abroad in the form of a check, draft, money order, or any other evidence of a claim or by debiting a foreign account in foreign currency or convertible dinars. The foreign exchange import declaration approved by customs is also required if the amount of foreign exchange from dinar reconversion equals or exceeds the equivalent of D 1,000 derived from the surrender of foreign currencies physically imported from abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 967 On imports Domestic currency Imports of banknotes and coins are prohibited. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad (1) Professional accounts in foreign currency may be opened by (i) any resident natural person, (ii) any Tunisian juridical person, and ( i i i) any foreign jur id ical person in Tunisia with foreign currency assets in connection with their activities. These accounts may be credited with (i) a maximum of 70% (prior to November 12, 2003, 50%) or up to 100% with CBT authorization of foreign exchange proceeds from the account holder's exports and foreign currency loans contracted in conformity with the regulations in force; (ii) inter- est accrued on the balances of these accounts; and (iii) transfers from the account holder's other professional accounts in the same currency or any other currency. The accounts may be debited for (i) payment of any current operation pertaining to the activity for which they were opened, and (ii) any other transaction with general or specific authorization. Balances may be offered for sale on the foreign exchange market. (2) Special accounts in foreign currency may be opened by (i) natural persons of Tunisian nationality changing the ir normal residence to Tunisia from abroad; (ii) resident natural persons of Tunisian nationality or Tunisian juridical persons for their nontransferable assets legitimately acquired abroad; (iii) natural persons of foreign nationality residing in Tunisia; (iv) foreign juridical persons with branches in Tunisia; and (v) Tunisian diplomats and civil servants stationed abroad. Funds legitimately acquired abroad, not from the exportation of goods or services from Tunisia, may be credited to these accounts. They may be debited for (i) foreign exchange sold on the interbank market; (ii) foreign exchange remitted to the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, and offspring to undertake foreign travel; (iii) amounts credited to another special account in foreign currency or convertible dinars; and (iv) any payments abroad, including those for the acquisition of movable property or real estate located abroad or ownership rights abroad, for foreign claims, and for payments for imports subject to applicable foreign trade formalities. (3) Residents are free to open foreign currency international trading accounts to make pay- ments related to their international trade and brokerage operations and associated expenses. These accounts may be credited with (i) the proceeds from sales of goods abroad, for which advance payment is received; (ii) profits and/or commissions from international trade and brokerage operations; (iii) foreign currency loans contracted to refinance trade operations; (iv) foreign currency from trade operations repurchased on the exchange market after it has been sold on the market; (v) interest generated by deposits on the account. They may be debited for (i) payments for purchases made within the framework of international trade operations and associated expenses; (ii) settlement of expenses related to international bro- kerage operations; (iii) repayment foreign currency loans; (iv) settlement of current opera- tions carried out in conformity with exchange and foreign trade regulations and any opera- tion carried out with general or special authorization; and (v) sales of foreign currencies in the exchange market. Special accounts held by residents must be declared to the CBT. CBT authorization is required for residents to hold accounts abroad. Resident banks may freely open correspondent current accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency (1) Professional accounts in convertible dinars may be opened by resident natural or ju r id i- cal persons with resources in foreign exchange, subject to CBT authorization. These ac- counts may be credited and debited in accordance with the terms specified by the CBT in the authorization to open such accounts. (2) Special accounts in convertible dinars may be opened by the same natural and juridical persons that may open special foreign exchange accounts. These special accounts may be credited with the dinar proceeds from sales on the interbank market of funds legitimately ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 968 TUNISIA acquired abroad, but not from the exportation of goods or services from Tunisia. They may be debited for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia; (2) the acquisition of foreign currencies either for remittance to the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, and offspring, or for making payments abroad, particularly for the acquisition of movable property or real estate located abroad, ownership rights abroad, foreign claims, and for payments for imports sub- ject to applicable foreign trade formalities; and (3) amounts credited to another special account in foreign currency or convertible dinars. To open special accounts Tunisians must submit a declaration of holdings to the CBT. (3) With CBT authorization, special export earnings accounts in convertible dinars may be opened by Tunisian or foreign natural persons residing in Tunisia who earn profits from the exportation of goods or services and/or who are shareholders or partners in a resident com- pany earning profits from the exportation of goods or services. These accounts may be freely credited with (1) 10% of the export earnings realized by the account holder and/or received from companies in which he or she is a shareholder, (2) proceeds from sales on the interbank market of foreign exchange representing income or revenue from assets acquired abroad by debiting the account, and (3) interest on balances in the account. They may be freely debited for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia; (2) purchases on the interbank market of foreign exchange to be used for foreign travel by the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, or offspring; and (3) payments in connection with a current op- eration or to acquire rights and interests abroad regardless of whether these are represented by securities, including related management fees. (4) Subject to CBT authorization, effective March 27, 2003, exchange subagency accounts in convertible dinars may be opened by a resident natural person acting on behalf of an authorized intermediary or a resident natural person with equity holdings in a resident ju- ridical person entity acting on behalf of an authorized intermediary. These accounts may be credited freely with (i) 2% of the dinar equivalent of foreign exchange sold by a person acting as a subagency; (ii) 2% of the dinar equivalent of foreign exchange sold by a juridi- cal person acting as a subagency, prorated in accordance with the equity of the account holder in such juridical person; (iii) the dinar proceeds from the sales of foreign currency revenue or assets acquired abroad; and (iv) interest earned on the accounts. These accounts may be freely debited for (i) payments of any kind in Tunisia; and (ii) purchases of foreign exchange for (a) travel abroad by the account holder, his or her spouse, parents, and off- spring; (b) payments for current transactions, subject to exchange and foreign trade regula- tions; (c) payments for the purchase of movable or real property abroad, ownership rights abroad, and foreign claims—whether or not represented by securities; and (d) payments for fees for the management of assets legally acquired abroad. Nonresident Accounts Foreign accounts in convertible currencies may be opened freely by all nonresidents re- gardless of nationality. These accounts may be credited with (1) receipts in convertible foreign currencies (banknotes must be declared at customs); (2) foreign exchange remitted to the account holder by a nonresident; (3) authorized payments by residents in favor of the account holder; (4) interest payable by the authorized intermediaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts, whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunerative rates; (5) transfers from other foreign accounts; and (6) the proceeds of cashed checks, traveler's checks, or drafts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresi- dent to the order of the account holder. All other credits require prior authorization from the CBT, either directly or by delegation. These accounts may be debited freely for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia; (2) transfers abroad or delivery of foreign currency to the account holder, to any other nonresident bene- ficiary, or to residents with the status of permanent representatives or salaried employees of the account holder; and (3) transfers to other foreign accounts. (1) Domestic nonresident accounts may be opened freely by authorized intermediaries in the name of foreigners residing temporarily in Tunisia. These accounts may be credited without authorization from the CBT with the following: (1) transfers of funds carried out in convertible currencies from a foreign country; (2) revenue of any kind accruing in Tunisia to the holder of the account (in particular the nontransferable part of remuneration for Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 969 services rendered by that person in Tunisia); (3) liquid assets from estates settled in Tunisia; (4) proceeds from the repayment of loans previously granted in dinars with funds from the account holder's internal nonresident account; and (5) transfers from another internal nonresident account opened in the name of the account holder. These accounts may be debited for (1) support of the account holder and his or her family in Tunisia, (2) payment of costs of managing property in Tunisia, (3) lending to residents, and (4) transfers to another internal nonresident account opened in the name of the account holder. (2) Special dinar accounts may be opened freely by foreign enterprises with contracts in Tunisia. These enterprises are authorized to open for each contract a single special account in dinars, in which they may deposit the portion of the contract price payable in dinars to cover their local expenses. The accounts may also be credited with funds from a foreign account in convertible foreign currency, the dinar equivalent of any transfer in convertible foreign currency from abroad, and interest accruing on funds deposited in the account. The accounts may be freely debited for enterprises' contract-related expenses in Tunisia. These enterprises are free to retransfer d inar equivalents credited to their foreign currency ac- counts, provided that the funds available in the account are suff ic ient to cover the transfer. Any transfer operations from such accounts must be authorized by the CBT. Interest is paid at the same rates as those applied to resident demand accounts in dinars. (3) Capital accounts may be opened freely in the name of a nonresident natural person of foreign nationality or by a nonresident jur id ical person. Subject to certain conditions, capital accounts may be credited, without the prior approval of the CBT, with the proceeds of sales on the stock exchange, or the contractual or advance redemption of transferable Tunisian securities; with the sales proceeds of real estate through an attorney at the Supreme Court, or of rights to real estate situated in Tunisia; and with funds from another capital account. Irrespective of the account holder's country of residence, capital accounts may be freely debited for the living expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his or her fam i ly up to D 100 a person a week, provided that total withdrawals from one or more capital accounts in a calendar year do not exceed D 2,000. In addition, a capital account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the CBT, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder and his or her family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to certain conditions, for expenses connected with the management of Tunisian securities; for the maintenance, repair, and insurance of real estate and all taxes; and for transfer to the credit of another capital account. Balances on capital accounts are freely transferable between nonresidents of foreign nationality, with the exception of juridical persons governed by public law. Subject to certain conditions, they may also be debited to assist the account holder's parents and offspring residing in Tunisia, at a maximum rate of D 50 a person a month. These accounts do not pay interest and may not be overdrawn. Natural and jur id ical persons of French or Italian nationality ho ld ing capital accounts may, with CBT authorization, transfer all funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit but subject to the condition, in the case of Italian account holders, that the said funds derived from the sale of real property; no condition with respect to the origin of funds applies to French account holders. (4) Suspense accounts may be opened by all nonresidents regardless of nationality and may be used for crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents and awaiting utilization. These proceeds may, upon general or specific approval, be used in Tunisia for specific purposes, transferred abroad, or transferred to other nonresident accounts. Suspense accounts may be debited, without the prior authorization of the CBT, for payments to the Tunisian govern- ment or pub l ic institutions, or payment of the expenses of manag ing securities deposited in a suspense file opened in the name of the account holder. They may also be debited for settlement of l iv ing expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder and his or her fam- ily up to D 100 a person a week, provided that the total withdrawals in any calendar year from one or more accounts do not exceed D 2,000 a family. In addition, a suspense account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 of the following year may withdraw from the account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the CBT, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the l iv ing expenses of the account holder and his or her fam i ly do not ex- ceed D 2,000 a year. Up to D 50 a person a month may be debited to assist the offspring or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 970 TUNISIA Convertible into foreign currency parents of the resident account holder. Natural and juridical persons of French or Italian nationality holding suspense accounts may, with CBT authorization, transfer all funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit but subject to the condition, in the case of Italian account holders, that the said funds derived from the sale of real property; no condi- tion with respect to the origin of funds applies to French account holders. These account do not pay interest and may not be overdrawn. Foreign accounts in convertible dinars may be opened freely by all nonresidents regardless of nationality. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) the dinar proceeds from sales of foreign currency on the interbank market (banknotes must be declared at customs); (2) proceeds from authorized payments by residents in favor of the account holder; (3) proceeds from the conversion of cashed checks, traveler's checks, or drafts expressed in foreign currency and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder; (4) transfers from other foreign accounts; and (5) interest on balances in these accounts. No other amount may be credited to these accounts without authorization from the CBT, granted either directly or by delegation. These accounts may be debited freely for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia, and (2) pur- chases on the interbank market of foreign currency either for transfers abroad or for deliv- ery to the account holder, to any other nonresident beneficiary, or to residents with the status of representatives or salaried employees of the account holder. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Yes. Other Importers must receive a customs code. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports are free from licensing requirements, except those that have an impact on law and order, hygiene, health, morals, protection of fauna and flora, and cultural heritage, and are effected by an import certificate domiciled with an authorized intermediary. Goods not liberalized need an import authorization granted through the MOT. Imports of raw materials, semifinished products, spare parts, and equipment that are paid for by sources outside Tunisia and do not involve the payment or delivery of foreign currency may be effected by enterprises for their own use without foreign trade formalities up to a value of D 100,000 or equivalent. Furthermore, companies exclusively engaged in exporting goods or services; companies established in an industrial park; and holders of permits for exploration, research, the operation of concessions in the hydrocarbons sector, or contractors or subcontractors employed by such companies may import freely, without foreign trade formalities, any goods required for their production process, subject only to customs declaration. Tunisia has signed free trade agreements with Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Libya, and Morocco. Goods not covered by the liberalization of foreign trade and those that have an impact on law and order, hygiene, health, morals, protection of flora and fauna, and cultural heritage are included in a list issued by decree. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Some items, a list of which is drawn up by the MOT, are subject to technical import controls. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to the VAT and, in some cases, to the consumption tax. Certain imports destined for domestic investment projects are eligible for f u ll or partial exemption from import duties. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements TUNISIA 971 Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds must be repatriated within 10 days of the payment due date. If no credit is ex- tended, payment is due within 30 days of the date of shipment. Nonresident companies exclusively engaged in exporting goods or services and covered by the Investment Incen- tives Code, as well as nonresident international trading companies and nonresident enter- prises established in an economic business park are not required to repatriate or surrender their export proceeds. Resident exporters may credit to their professional accounts up to 70% (prior to November 12, 2003, 50%) of their foreign exchange export proceeds and their foreign currency loans contracted in accordance with existing exchange regulations. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Domiciliation Exports of goods covered by the liberalization of foreign trade must be domiciled within eight days of the date of shipment. Preshipment inspection Some products listed by the MOT are subject to export controls. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Most exports are free from a licensing requirement, and certain goods may be exported with an authorization issued by the MOT. Tunisia has signed free-trade agreements with Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Libya, and Morocco, providing for the complete phasing out of tariff barriers between Tunisia and these countries by December 2007. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Investment-related payments Payments for travel Quantitative limits Transfers may be freely effected for payment of freight, storage, and warehousing services; transit and administrative fees; customs duties; commissions; and fees for analyses and controls of materials and products. Income from foreign capital invested in accordance with the laws and regulations in force and interest on foreign currency loans contracted by residents in accordance with the regu- lations in force may be transferred freely. Rent from real estate owned by nonresidents may be transferred freely. The annual allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of D 1,000 an adult and D 500 a child under ten years of age (these amounts may be accumulated over a period of two consecutive calendar years). The business travel allowance for exporters is 15% of export proceeds for the current year, with an annual limit of D 120,000. Any unused portion of this allowance may be carried forward to subsequent years, provided that the cumulative amount does not exceed the annual l im it of D 120,000. Resident individuals and corporations that have signed service or work contracts with nonresidents that can be fu l ly or partially implemented abroad may receive a business travel allowance (AVA) set at 15% of the contracts realized abroad. Exporters may cumulatively receive this AVA and the Exporter-AVA. The annual limit for business travel by importers ranges from D 5,000 to D 30,000, depending on the value of the previous year's imports, and the annual limit for business travel by other professions ranges from D 2,000 to D 20,000, depending on the previous year's income declared to the tax authorities. The travel allowance for promoters of new projects is a maximum of D 5,000, and is granted only once for the duration of the project. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments There are no restrictions on the transfer of pensions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 972 Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Quantitative limits TUNISIA Alimony payments to the ex-spouse and children in a definitive judgment are freely transferable. The annual allowance for expenses related to stays abroad for reasons of health is D 750 or equivalent. Persons accompanying patients may transfer up to D 250 a trip in the case of medical or paramedical staff and D 500 in all other cases. The annual settlement allowance and the monthly living expense allowances for students studying abroad are D 1,500 and D 700, respectively. Education allowances are freely transferable up to a ceiling of D 6,000 a year. The limit of D 750 or equivalent for expenses related to stays abroad for reasons of health may be exceeded if the patient's condition requires several trips abroad during the same year. Contractually employed foreign nationals may transfer up to 50% of their earnings. For foreign experts employed by the public sector, limits on transfers are specified in their con- tracts; otherwise, the restrictions for contractually employed foreign nationals apply. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Only operators eligible for business travel allowances are authorized to use credit cards abroad. Yes. Those eligible for business travel allowances may use their credit cards abroad only to the extent of their transfer entitlements for these allowances. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Other payments Subscription fees for journals and periodicals, membership fees, and dues for foreign asso- ciations and organizations, and payments for literary and artistic rights, legal proceedings, arbitrage, and attorney fees are freely transferable. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Residents are required to repatriate all remuneration for services rendered to nonresidents and all proceeds from invisible transactions received from abroad. Resident providers of services to nonresidents may retain in their professional foreign currency accounts up to 70% (prior to November 12, 2003, 50%) of the foreign currency earnings accruing from these accounts and their foreign exchange borrowing contracted in accordance with the exchange regulations in force. Foreign exchange deposited in professional accounts must be used in accordance with the rules governing the operation of accounts of this type. Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions There are controls on all transactions in capital and money market instruments. Stocks may be acquired freely with foreign exchange transferred from abroad by foreign nonresidents in companies established in Tunisia. However, for stocks with voting rights and for acquisitions that result in foreign ownership exceeding 50% of capital shares listed on the stock exchange and for unlisted shares, the approval of the High Investment Commission (HIC) is required. Authorization is not required from the HIC for acquisitions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 973 of Tunisian securities entailing voting rights or shares in companies established in Tunisia (1) between associates or shareholders in the same company who are foreign nationals; (2) by nonresident natural or juridical persons established in Tunisia, for securities and corporate shares that have already been acquired within the limit of 50% or more; and (3) provided as a guarantee for management activities of foreign directors in these companies. Nonresidents may sell freely shares of companies established in Tunisia. They may also transfer freely net real proceeds from the sale of shares that were purchased with foreign exchange transferred from abroad for an investment made in accordance with the legislation in force. The accumulation of assets abroad by residents is subject to authorization. However, resi- dent exporters may transfer the equivalent of D 40,000 to D 200,000 annually to finance equity participation in companies located abroad. The holders of special accounts in foreign currency or convertible dinars, special export earnings accounts, or exchange subagency accounts may purchase securities abroad by debiting these accounts. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents The purchase by nonresident foreign nationals of debt securities issued by state or resident companies is subject to approval, with the exception of treasury bills, to which they may subscribe up to a specified ceiling. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. On money market instruments Controls apply on all these transactions. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may acquire freely shares of Tunisian mutual funds with foreign exchange transferred from abroad. However, the approval of the HIC is required if the acquisition raises the foreign ownership to more than 50% of the mutual fund 's capital. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may transfer freely net real proceeds from sales of Tunisian mutual fund shares acquired with foreign exchange transferred from abroad. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls apply to all transactions in derivatives and other instruments. Resident banks may engage in (1) foreign currency swaps maturing in up to 12 months with nonresident banks operating in Tunisia, and with foreign correspondent banks; (2) foreign currency/dinar swaps maturing in up to 12 months among themselves and with resident enterprises, pro- vided that the transactions in question back actual commercial or financial transactions; and (3) foreign currency/convertible dinar swaps, by making spot purchases and forward sales of convertible dinars to nonresident banks operating in Tunisia, foreign correspondent banks, and nonresident enterprises operating in Tunisia. For the purposes of hedging against foreign exchange rate risks, resident and nonresident intermediaries may conclude future rate agreements for terms of up to 12 months with resident enterprises, or with their foreign correspondent banks. Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 974 TUNISIA Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits These credits require approval from the CBT, except for credits in foreign currency granted on the money market to refinance import or export operations of nonresident industrial enterprises established in Tunisia and short-term credits in dinars to finance the local operating expenses of nonresident enterprises established in Tunisia. Resident financial institutions and other resident enterprises may freely contract foreign currency loans from nonresidents up to an annual limit of the equivalent of D 10 million and D 3 million, respectively. Resident financial institutions and other resident enterprises may freely contract foreign currency financial loans from nonresidents up to an annual limit of the equivalent of D 10 million and D 3 million, respectively. By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Resident banks may freely grant bid bonds, performance bonds, advance payment bonds, contract holdback bonds, or any other bonds to resident exporters of goods or services to guarantee their obligations to nonresidents. They may also freely grant guarantees for the payment by resident importers of their purchases from nonresident suppliers. The issue and establishment of repayment guarantees for foreign currency loans freely contracted by residents are not subject to approval. At the request and with the counterguarantee of a nonresident bank, resident banks may freely grant the usual bank guarantees required of nonresident service providers by resident transactors in connection with business contracts, work contracts, service contracts, etc. Outward direct investment by residents requires approval from the CBT; however, to sup- port their export activities, exporters may freely transfer amounts ranging from D 40,000 to D 200,000 or equivalent a calendar year to cover the installation, maintenance, and operat- ing costs of branches and subsidiaries or to finance equity participation, and D 20,000 to D 100,000 to cover installation, maintenance, and operating costs of liaison or representa- tive offices. Foreigners may invest freely in most economic sectors. However, the participation of for- eigners in certain service industries not exclusively engaged in export activities requires the approval of the HIC if such participation exceeds 50% of the capital stock. All foreign direct investment carried out legitimately in Tunisia with foreign exchange transferred from abroad is guaranteed the right to repatriate the net proceeds from the sale or liquidation of the invested capital, even if the net proceeds exceed the initial value of the foreign exchange invested. Purchases require prior approval from the CBT, except for transactions conducted through special accounts in foreign currency or convertible dinars or through special export earn- ings accounts in convertible dinars or exchange subagency accounts in convertible dinars. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases require prior approval from the CBT. Sale locally by nonresidents Authorization is required for sales other than those made to a resident and involving real estate that is the subject of a land title. These sales are recorded in the Land Registry solely upon presentation of documentation showing that the price was deposited by the buyer in a suspense or capital account maintained in the name of the vendor on the books of a licensed intermediary. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 975 Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents .To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Authorization is not required to take possession of an inheritance established in Tunisia for the benefit of a nonresident. The transfer of proceeds from gifts, endowments, and inheritances not previously guaranteed is subject to approval. Authorization is not required for gifts from nonresidents to residents, and for taking possession of an inheritance established abroad for a resident. Proceeds from gifts and inheritances must be declared and repatriated. Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Yes. Transfer into the country by immigrants Nonresident Tunisian nationals returning permanently to the country must declare and repatriate their assets or proceeds and revenue from their holdings abroad. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Resident financial institutions may freely contract foreign currency loans from nonresidents up to a limit of D 10 million or equivalent. Maintenance of accounts abroad Resident banks may freely open correspondent accounts with foreign banks of their choice. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange The approval of the CBT is required for loans granted by resident banks to nonresidents. However, resident banks may freely extend loans on the foreign exchange money market to nonresident industrial enterprises established in Tunisia for operating expenses and to finance imports and exports. In addition, resident banks may extend dinar loans to offshore companies to finance local (dinar-denominated) operational expenses. Such loans cannot be used to purchase foreign exchange and must be placed in a special account. Resident banks may freely extend credit to finance import and export operations. They may also lend their foreign currency surpluses to other resident banks and to their correspondent banks in exchange for loans with the same maturity in another currency. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements There is no reserve requirement on foreign currency deposit accounts. Liquid asset requirements A liquidity ratio requirement takes foreign currency deposits into account. Interest rate controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Interest rates on foreign currency deposits are freely negotiated between the bank and ac- count holders, except that remuneration of the foreign currency accounts of residents may not be more than a half point below the rates of remuneration published by the CBT for foreign currency amounts above or equal to the equivalent of D 10,000. The dinar deposits of nonresidents are included in the calculation of the reserve requirements base. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 976 TUNISIA Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits A liquidity ratio requirement is in effect that takes nonresidents' deposits into account. Interest rates on dinar and convertible dinar deposits of nonresidents are freely negotiated, except in the case of demand accounts, on which there is a cap of 2%. The remuneration on foreign currency accounts is freely negotiated with banks. Dinar balances in suspense accounts and capital accounts do not earn interest. Yes. Approval is required for any acquisition of capital in a bank or other financial institution and, in all cases, for the acquisition of a proportion of the voting rights equal to or exceed- ing 10%, as well as of any instrument that may result in the transfer of a significant propor- tion of the assets, potentially changing its financial structure or the focus of its activities. Net open positions of banks operating in the foreign exchange market resulting from both spot and forward transactions are limited to 10% of banks' net equity capital in each currency, with a global l im it of 20% for position in all currencies. On resident assets and liabilities Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Resident accounts Yes. Yes. Any acquisition on the stock exchange of a twentieth, tenth, f if th, third, half, or two-thirds of the capital of a company that is involved in public deposit-taking must be declared to that company, to the Financial Board, and to the Securities Exchange. Changes During 2003 March 27. A resident natural person acting on behalf of an authorized intermediary was allowed to open exchange subagency accounts in convertible dinars with CBT authorization. November 12. The amount of foreign exchange proceeds that could be credited to residents' professional accounts from exports and foreign currency loans was increased to 70% from 50%, or to 100% with CBT authorization. Exports and export proceeds November 12. The amount of foreign currency that resident exporters may credit to their professional accounts was increased to 70% from 50%. Proceeds from inv is ib le transactions and current transfers November 12. The amount of foreign currency that resident providers of services to non- residents may retain in their professional foreign currency accounts was increased to 70% from 50%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 22, 1990. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Turkey is the Turkish lira. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the Turkish lira is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market, although the Central Bank of Turkey (CRT) reserves the right to intervene in the foreign exchange market in case of excessive volatility in either direction in the foreign exchange rates. No. No. Banks may engage in forward transactions within the framework of open position limits set according to the regulation on total net foreign exchange positions/own funds ratio and the regulations on capital adequacy. There is no limit on forward transactions of precious metal brokerage institutions. Official cover of forward operations The CBT may carry out swap and forward transactions with respect to its reserve position in light of the exchange rate policy. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Clearing agreements Yes. Yes. Certain commercial transactions with Poland are made through special accounts denominated in dollars. Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. Administration of control The Undersecretariat of the Treasury and the CBT administer exchange controls. The Banking Regulatory and Supervisory Agency (BRSA) regulates and supervises banks' open foreign exchange positions and the CBT monitors banks' foreign exchange positions. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. No. Domestic purchases and sales of unprocessed gold imported by the CBT and by intermedi- ary institutions dealing in precious metals may be conducted only at the Istanbul Gold Ex- change (IGE). The purchase and sale of precious metals and stones or articles therefrom may be conducted freely within the country. 977 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 978 TURKEY Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency In accordance with the Foreign Trade Regime, exports and imports of precious metals and stones or articles containing them may be conducted freely. Only the CBT and intermediary institutions dealing in precious metals that are members of the IGE may import unpro- cessed gold without being subject to the provisions of the Foreign Trade Regime, but the latter must surrender the gold to the IGE within three days. Selling operations of imported gold should initially take place in the IGE. Banks may open gold deposit accounts for natural and juridical entities residing in Turkey and abroad. The account holders should surrender processed gold to banks in order to open gold deposit accounts. Within the framework of the banking regulations, banks that are members of the IGE may extend gold credits to customers. The buying and selling prices of gold are freely deter- mined by banks. Intermediary institutions dealing in precious metals may obtain gold cred- its from abroad for their own account and/or for the accounts of their customers. However, gold obtained as a credit should be transferred to the IGE within three days. Travelers may bring into and take out of the country ornamental articles made from pre- cious metals and stones with a value not exceeding the equivalent of $15,000. The export of ornamental articles exceeding this value is dependent on their declaration upon arrival or proof that they have been purchased in Turkey. Travelers may freely take abroad up to the equivalent of $5,000. Travelers may freely take out of the country up to the equivalent of $5,000. To take out more than this amount, nonresidents must declare banknotes upon arrival, and residents must present a document confirming that the foreign banknotes were purchased from banks or special finance institutions for invisible transactions. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs TURKEY 979 No. Imports of certain items are prohibited for environmental, security, health, or public moral- ity reasons, or in accordance with international obligations. These items include certain carcinogenic coloring substances, chemicals used in the production of chemical weapons or other arms and ammun i t ion, counterfeit labels, gambling instruments, narcotics, and ozone- depleting substances. Import licenses, which are issued by the relevant authorities, are re- quired for a limited group of items, inc lud ing telecommunications and transmission equip- ment, some machinery, some motor vehicles, some chemicals, and a number of items re- lated to civil aircraft. Imports of old, used, renovated, faulty, or obsolete goods are subject to permission from the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade, but certain goods that are not older than 10 years may be imported freely. Quotas are implemented as a requirement for the harmonization of Turkey's import policy with that of the EU. Turkey has adopted the EU's quota policy on imports of textiles and clothing products. Currently, textiles and clothing imports from 19 countries are subject to quotas. Turkey has also introduced quotas on imports of certain products originating in China, including footwear; ceramic, china, or porcelain tableware and kitchenware; and toys. Turkey applies the EU's GSP and the GSP rates that are indicated in List II of the Import Regime. Effective January 1, 2004, the customs tariff rates for least-developed countries have been reduced to zero for industrial products numbered 25-97 in the customs tariffs (excluding arms in chapter 93). Effective January 1, 2004, for the developing countries, in addition to the already existing 2,884 items, an additional 2,936 items (excluding some sectors such as textiles, iron and steel, and automotive parts) are aligned with the EU's GSP (GSP coverage had previously been extended to 2,884 product categories from 2,456 product categories on January 1, 2003). As of January 2004, the simple average tariff rate for imports of industrial products is 4.2%; this rate is zero for products imported from EU and EFTA countries. The simple average tariff rate for imports of agricultural products is 55.7%, while that for imports from EU and EFTA countries is 54.7%. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Exports and Export Proceeds Yes. Foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered within 180 days following the date of ship- ment to banks or special financial institutions. Exporters may retain foreign exchange re- ceipts from abroad up to the equivalent of $50,000. If at least 70% of the foreign exchange receipts are surrendered within 90 days following the date of shipment, exporters are enti- tled to retain the remaining 30%, which they may deposit in foreign exchange accounts with commercial banks, keep abroad, or dispose of freely. No. No. Preshipment inspections are carried out only if requested by the importing country. All goods, other than those whose exportation is prohibited by law, decrees, or international agreements, may be exported freely within the framework of the Export Regime Decree. However, within the framework of WTO rules, restrictions and prohibitions on exports may be imposed in case of market turmoil; scarcity of the goods to be exported; public safety, morals, and health; or environmental concerns (this also applies to several varieties of flora and fauna). Restrictions and prohibitions also apply to exports of articles bearing artistic, historical, or archaeological value. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 980 Export taxes TURKEY Nuts and unprocessed leather are subject to export taxes. The taxes are levied in the form of deductions payable to the Support and Price Stabilization Fund at the rate of the equivalents of $0.04 and $0.08, and $0.50% per kilogram for unshelled and shelled hazelnuts, and unprocessed leather, respectively. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Yes. Credit card use abroad Quantitative limits Credit cards may be used on a revolving basis up to the equivalent of $10,000. Balances exceeding this limit must be settled within 30 days. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchases and sales of domestic securities and other instruments by nonresidents and of foreign securities by residents may be effected freely. However, all transactions in securi- ties must be carried out through banks and intermediary institutions authorized according to capital market legislation, and all related transfers must be performed through banks and special financial institutions. Capital market instruments to be issued or offered to the pub- lic by resident legal persons other than public institutions may be freely sold abroad subject to the condition that they be registered with the Capital Markets Board (CMB). The sale and issue of foreign securities and other instruments by nonresidents must be registered with the CMB. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue of these instruments is subject to CMB registration. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issue of these instruments is subject to CMB registration. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue of these instruments is subject to CMB registration. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issue of these instruments is subject to CMB registration. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The sale or issue of these instruments is subject to CMB registration. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issue of these instruments is subject to CMB registration. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange TURKEY 981 The maturity of commodity credits may not exceed two years for nondurable goods and five years for other goods. Residents may obtain freely credits from abroad, provided that they use such credits through banks or special financial institutions. The maximum maturity of prefinancing credits is 18 months, except in the case of shipbuilding, where it is 24 months. Credits with a maturity of more than one year that are obtained by the public sector or guaranteed by the Treasury must be registered in the External Financing Information Sys- tem maintained by the Undersecretariat of the Treasury. All other credits are monitored by the CBT for statistical purposes. Residents may freely export capital in cash up to $5 million or its equivalent in other for- eign currencies through banks or special financial institutions, and capital in kind within the framework of the provisions of the customs legislation for the purpose of direct investment. Permission for direct investments that require the transfer of capital in kind or in cash ex- ceeding the equivalent of $5 million is granted by the Undersecretariat of the Treasury. Effective June 5, 2003, under the Foreign Direct Investment Law (Law No. 4875), foreign investors are free to make foreign direct investments and are subject to the same treatment as domestic investors. Previously, prior approval was required for these transactions, and the minimum amount of capital that could be brought in by foreign investors was the equivalent of $50,000. Proceeds may be transferred abroad freely but must be reported to the CBT. Effective June 5, 2003, under the Foreign Direct Investment Law, foreign companies may freely acquire real estate or limited rights to property through a legal entity in Turkey estab- lished by or with participation of foreign investors, provided such acquisitions are permit- ted for Turkish citizens. Nonresidents may not acquire real estate in military or security areas. The acquisition of real estate by nonresidents in villages is prohibited. Exceptions to this restriction may be granted by the Council of Ministers for activities in the tourism and petroleum sectors. Real estate in villages acquired by nonresidents through inheritance must be liquidated. Outside the boundaries of villages, foreign natural persons may acquire real estate on the condition of reciprocity. However, the acquisition of land exceeding 30 hectares requires the permis- sion of the Council of Ministers. Foreign juridical persons established in Turkey may ac- quire real estate to conduct their business and economic activities. However, the real estate may not be used to carry out realty activities. Personal capital in cash form may be freely transferred into and out of the country, in ac- cordance with exchange legislation. Inward and outward personal capital transfers in kind may be effected in accordance with customs and exchange legislation. Yes. Resident banks may extend credits to nonresidents in foreign exchange up to the total amount of the foreign exchange credits they have obtained and the balances in their foreign exchange deposit accounts. Such credits may also be extended in Turkish lira. Resident banks may not extend credits in foreign exchange to residents except to those who are exporters; investors; Turkish entrepreneurs working abroad; residents who are conduct- ing business related to international tenders held in Turkey; and residents who are conduct- ing business related to defense industry projects that have been approved by the Under- secretariat of the Defense Industry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 982 TURKEY Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Banks and special finance institutions must maintain required reserves at the CBT for deposit and other liabilities. The required reserve ratio for liabilities in domestic currency is 6%; in foreign currencies, 11%. Required reserves must be held in special accounts with the CBT, but 3 percentage points of the reserve requirement rates for domestic and foreign currencies may be maintained on a two-week average basis. The required reserves maintained in domestic currency and foreign exchange are remunerated. Liquidity requirements are based on the liabilities used for the calculation of required re- serves. The liquidity requirement ratio for liabilities in domestic currency is 4% and that for liabilities in foreign exchange is 1%. The period for calculating liabilities is two weeks. The opening of branches or representative offices abroad by banks founded in Turkey is subject to the permission of the BRSA. Likewise, the opening of a company abroad by banks, or banks' participation in a previously established company abroad, requires the permission of the BRSA. Banks that fail to meet the standard ratios according to the Banks Act may not acquire new shares in partnerships. Any acquisition of shares whereby the capital shares held by one person exceed 10%, 20%, 33%, or 50% of the capital of the bank, and any transfer of shares whereby the capital shares held by one person fall below these limits are subject to prior permission of the BRSA. Transactions that result in reducing the number of shareholders to less than five, or in shares being assigned without permission, may not be registered. These rules are valid for the acquisition of voting rights and pledging of shares. The assignment of preferential shares requires BRSA approval, irrespective of the above limits. In the application of these regulations, no distinction is drawn between residents and nonresidents. All foreign exchange-indexed assets and liabilities have to be taken into account fully as foreign assets and foreign liabilities. Banks are required to maintain a balance in their for- eign exchange assets and liabilities and maintain foreign exchange positions that are in line with their own funds. The ratio between net foreign exchange position and own funds must be ±20% (if the ratio exceeds this limit, the BRSA will require the bank to comply with a ±20% level within six months). This limit is the same as that stipulated by the previous regulation, except that net foreign exchange position is now compared to own funds instead of the capital base. The definition of own funds is provided in the Directive on Establish- ment and Operations of Banks, and covers the sum core capital and supplementary capital from which some items are deducted. The same definition is used in the capital adequacy ratio. The provisions of these regulations are also applied to special financial institutions. For insurance companies, limitations on investment instruments apply to residents and nonresidents without distinction. For pension companies, a maximum of 15% of pension contributions may be held in foreign currency-denominated securities. For insurance companies, limitations on investment instruments apply to residents and nonresidents without distinction. For pension companies, a maximum of 15% of pension contributions may be held in foreign currency-denominated securities. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Assets must be held in domestic banks —including foreign-owned banks—as blocked secu- rities. For pension funds, at least 30% of their portfolios must be in domestic instruments. For life insurance companies, limits apply as stipulated in the Insurance Supervisory Law. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. Imports and import payments January 1. The coverage of GSP for least-developed countries was increased to 2,884 product categories from 2,456. Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 983 Capital transactions Controls on direct investment Controls on real estate transactions June 5. The Foreign Direct Investment Law (Law No. 4875) came into effect, making treatment of direct investments by nonresidents the same as investment by residents. June 5. Under the Foreign Direct Investment Law, foreign companies were allowed to ac- quire real estate or limited rights to property through a legal entity in Turkey established by or with participation of foreign investors, provided such acquisitions are permitted for Turkish citizens. Changes During 2004 Imports and import payments January 1. The customs tariff rates for developing countries were reduced to zero for industrial products numbered 25-97 in the customs tariffs, and the coverage of GSP was extended to an additional 2,936 items. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency The currency of Turkmenistan is the Turkmen manat. Exchange rate structure Dual. Exchange Arrangement Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax The official (cash and noncash) exchange rate is determined at a weekly auction conducted by the Central Bank of Turkmenistan (CBT), in which authorized commercial banks par- ticipate. The official rate is manat 5,200 per $1. Access to the foreign exchange auction is limited to authorized banks, and bids are screened by the CBT and the Foreign Currency Committee (FCC). Banks participate in the auctions on behalf of their customers and for transactions approved by the CBT and the FCC. Bids are submitted at the rate established in the previous auction; if demand exceeds the foreign exchange supplied by the CBT, the excess demand is shifted to the next session. Exchange taxes of 50% and 30% are levied on receipts from exports of natural gas and oil and petroleum products, respectively, and allocated to the Foreign Exchange Reserve Fund (FERF) of Turkmenistan. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements with other countries are made through a system of correspondent accounts. Settlements with countries with which Turkmenistan has bilateral payments arrangements are effected in accordance with the procedures set forth in these agreements. Barter transactions, other than natural gas exports, must take place through the State Commodity Exchange. All other transactions are settled in convertible currencies. Yes. Yes. Yes. Bilateral agreements with Malaysia and the Islamic Republic of Iran are inoperative. Barter agreements and open accounts There are barter trade agreements for natural gas exports to Russia and Ukraine. Administration of control The CBT is empowered to issue exchange control regulations, depending on the type of operation involved. The use of official foreign exchange reserves is controlled by the government of Turkmenistan. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Off ic ial Yes. 984 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN 985 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade A license is required to engage in international trade in gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Foreign banknotes may be imported and exported freely, provided funds are declared on arrival and departure. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Juridical and natural persons may hold foreign exchange accounts with local commercial banks. Held domestically Held abroad These accounts may be opened and maintained by juridical persons if the holder possesses a certificate of registration issued by the State Service for Foreign Investments under the president of Turkmenistan. All external payments made from these accounts must be ap- proved by the CBT; however, cash withdrawals in foreign currency may be made without the approval of the CBT. Turkmen citizens residing overseas may open foreign exchange accounts abroad for the duration of their foreign residence. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Conversion is permitted only through foreign exchange purchases in the Interbank Exchange Market (IEM) of Turkmenistan. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible to hold these accounts. Yes. No. CBT approval is required. No. Imports and Import Payments No. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports of a small number of goods on a negative list (e.g., arms, narcotics, and antiques) are prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 986 TURKMENISTAN Import taxes and/or tariffs Excise taxes are levied on alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, jewelry, and cars. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system The private sector and public enterprises in the cotton sector are exempt from surrender requirements. Sectors subject to surrender requirements are public enterprises, 50%; joint ventures with state participation, 10%; and the natural gas sector, 25%. The surrender requirement is fu l f i l led by the sale of proceeds to the IEM. n.a. Yes. All exports, except natural gas, are to be channeled through the Stock Commodity Exchange. Quantitative and price restrictions are imposed on exports of cotton and other raw materials to protect domestic supplies. There is a 50% foreign exchange tax on natural gas and a 30% tax on oil and petroleum products, the proceeds of which are allocated to the FERF. Also, 0.01% of the value of licensed products paid for with convertible currencies is collected as a fee. The fee on ex- ports to the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the FSU is 0.1% of the ruble value of the licensed product. The customs department also charges an administration fee of 0.2%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Personal payments Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Credit card use abroad Prior approval All payments require prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange for a few invisible payments —medical treatment abroad, educational support for students abroad, official travel by public officers, and travel abroad due to the death of an immediate relative —is available at the commercial banks' cash foreign exchange window. Yes. In accordance with the law on foreign investments in Turkmenistan, after payment of taxes, profits may be reinvested in Turkmenistan, held in bank accounts in domestic or other currencies, or transferred abroad. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKMENISTAN 987 Other payments Prior approval Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions These transactions are subject to the regulations of the CBT and the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). Controls on capital and money market instruments Both inward and outward capital transfers are subject to CBT and MEF approval. On capital market securities Securities may be issued and circulated in Turkmenistan after registration with the MEF. Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents A nonresident's share in the equity of a resident company is limited to 49%. Nonresidents may purchase only registered shares. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are subject to quotas by the Cabinet of Ministers (CM). Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. On money market instruments Controls apply on all transactions in money market instruments. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Markets for transactions in derivatives do not exist. Controls on credit operations Credit institutions operate under CBT license and controls apply on all credit operations. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Investments by juridical persons are permitted in all sectors. Investors are required to regis- ter at the State Service for Foreign Investments under the president of Turkmenistan. If the amount exceeds $500,000 or its equivalent, the approval of the CM is required. Foreign investors have the right to recover investments within six months of liquidation. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions A CBT license and CM authorization are required. Provided the license is granted, no controls apply to individual transactions. Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 988 TURKMENISTAN Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Provisions specific to institutional investors Securities denominated in foreign exchange are not issued. The CBT's short- and long-term investments abroad and their share in a company's total gross foreign assets require approval of the government of Turkmenistan. For other invest- ments, a CBT and/or an MEF license is required, depending on the type of institutional investor. Other controls imposed by securities laws Institutional investors require a special license issued by the MEF to invest in the equity market. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position as of February 29, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 5, 1994. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Uganda is the Uganda shilling. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The external value of the Uganda shilling is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. Certain transactions may be effected in exchange bureaus that are licensed to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Authorized banks may deal with customers in the forward exchange market. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Authorized payments, including those for imports to nonresidents, may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of a nonresident account in Uganda or in any other currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Trade and payments agreements exist with Algeria, Cuba, Egypt, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Libya. Under the terms of the East African Cooperation Agreement, Uganda, Kenya, and Tanzania shillings are now freely convertible in the three countries. Excess holdings of Kenya and/or Tanzania shillings are repatriated to the respective central banks for immediate credit in dollars. Uganda maintains clearing arrangements with Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Rwanda. The Bank of Uganda (BOU) settles accounts in dollars with COMES A member countries through the COMES A clearinghouse. Residents of member countries may use national currencies in day-to-day payments during a transaction period of two calendar months; the monetary authorities settle net balances at the end of this period in convertible currencies. Administration of control No. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Transactions are not allowed with countries subject to UN sanctions. Payments arrears Off ic ial Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Arrears are normally paid in the currency in which the loan was denominated, although the government may negotiate a new payment arrangement with the creditor. Yes. Yes. Yes. 989 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 990 UGANDA Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may hold and acquire gold coins for numismatic purposes. Only monetary au- thorities and licensed dealers are allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry. Controls on external trade Dealing in gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler requires licenses issued by the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development. On the basis of these licenses, the Ministry of Tourism, Trade, and Industry issues export and import permits. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Residents are free to open accounts in domestic or foreign currency locally or abroad. Resident Accounts Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are free to open and maintain domestic or foreign currency accounts. Yes. Yes. No blocked accounts currently exist; however, an account may be blocked if required by law. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of firearms, pornographic materials, tires, and goods banned under international agreements to which Uganda is a signatory are prohibited. Customs duties on goods imported from countries outside the COMESA are zero, 7%, and 15%. For COMESA members, they are zero, 4%, and 6%. The rate for machinery is zero, and duties for intermediate goods and raw materials range up to 7%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA 991 Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Capital Transactions No. No. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. Leases on land granted to non-Ugandan persons, irrespective of their residency status, may not exceed 99 years. Yes. No. Effective February 20, 2004, borrowing abroad by commercial banks is subject to reserve requirements. Account balances may not exceed 25% of total capital, and the financial institution should have a good credit rating. BOU approval is required for any lending exceeding 25% of core capital. Only short-term lending is permitted, and it may not exceed in aggregate 80% of a bank's total foreign currency deposits. Banks must maintain with the BOU unremunerated cash reserves of 9% against time deposits and 10% against demand deposits. These requirements apply to deposits in both domestic and foreign currencies and are in addition to liquidity requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 992 UGANDA Liquid asset requirements There are requirements of 20% against demand deposits and of 15% on time and savings deposits. These are applied to both domestic and foreign currency accounts. Open foreign exchange position limits Commercial banks are allowed to maintain an open position equivalent to 25% of core capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. Changes During 2004 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions February 20. Borrowing by commercial banks from abroad was made subject to reserve requirements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE (Position as of March 31, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 24, 1996. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Ukraine is the Ukrainian hryvnia. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax The National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) sets the official exchange rate of the hryvnia against the dollar on the basis of exchange quotations on the Ukrainian interbank market. The NBU intervenes to limit fluctuations in the exchange rate; however, the hryvnia has remained within a very narrow band vis-a-vis the dollar since the end of 2001. The off ic ial exchange rate is used by residents and nonresidents to account for foreign ex- change transactions. Effective March 14, 2003, a 5% limit on commissions charged on purchases of noncash foreign exchange was lifted. Effective January 1, 2004, a 1.5% fee is collected on purchases of noncash foreign ex- change; proceeds are used for government pension insurance. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and receipts from all countries are settled in foreign currencies, except that settlements for trade with CIS and Baltic countries may also be made in domestic currency. Residents may make settlements with nonresidents in hryvnias through hryvnia correspon- dent accounts opened with authorized Ukrainian banks by nonresident banks, but they must provide the servicing bank with a certificate from the State Tax Administration (STA) showing that no tax liabilities are outstanding on the date of the transaction. An NBU li- cense is required if the due date for the delivery of imported goods or of proceeds from exports exceeds 90 days. For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Yes. Transactions in derivatives and other instruments In certain instances, authorization is required from the State Securities and Stock Market Commission. Credit operations Commercial credits in hryvnias are allowed to economic agents of CIS and Baltic countries only. An NBU license is required for credits with maturities exceeding 90 days. Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements An NBU license is required. Inoperative There are arrangements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other FSU countries. 993 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 994 UKRAINE Regional arrangements Yes. Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Barter is one of the forms of trade for Ukrainian companies in their transactions, used largely with the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the FSU. The use of barter in foreign trade transactions is prohibited for a group of goods determined by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers. The NBU, authorized banks, the STA, the State Customs Service, the State Committee of Communications, and the Ministry of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine administer exchange controls. Restrictions are maintained on payments and on the provision of f inanc ial services to Eri- trea, Ethiopia, Iraq, Liberia, the Taliban, and the UNITA movement in Angola. Payments arrears n.a. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents are required to obtain a license from the MOF to deal in precious stones and metals, except for bank metals. The NBU licenses commercial bank transactions in bank metals. Permission for residents to export precious metals and precious stones is granted by the Ministry of Economy and European Integration in consultation with the MOF. Individual licenses to purchase and export bank metals are issued by the NBU. The NBU issues im- port permits for bank metals. Bank metals are imported only by authorized banks and do not require NBU permits. Resident natural persons may export up to HRV 1,000 upon oral declaration; resident and nonresident natural persons may export up to HRV 10,000, including jubilee and com- memorative coins made from precious and nonprecious metals, with mandatory customs declaration. An individual NBU license is required for exports above these limits. Resident juridical persons possessing, leasing, or chartering transportation facilities may export up to HRV 3,000 through designated persons aboard the transportation facility, subject to manda- tory customs declaration. They may also export proceeds received, if accompanied by sup- porting cashier documents. Nonresident juridical persons must obtain an individual NBU license. Resident and nonresident natural persons departing from Ukraine for tourism or personal business are permitted to export monetary resources (foreign currency, checks in foreign currency, and bank metals) previously imported into Ukraine legally. In addition, such persons are also permitted to export monetary resources up to the equivalent of $6,000. Resident natural persons can export up to the equivalent of $3,000 with an oral declaration (effective February 12, 2003), and the balance up to $6,000 with a written customs declara- tion. Effective March 1, 2004, nonresident natural persons can export up to the equivalent of $1,000 with an oral declaration, and the balance up to $6,000 with a written customs declaration. At the time of exportation of an amount requiring a written declaration, the exporter must provide a bank certificate indicating withdrawal from an account or purchase of foreign currency (such as traveler's checks or a travel money card) from a banking insti- tution. A written declaration is also required for exports of 100 grams of bank metals in ingots and, for nonresident natural persons, for exports of checks issued by foreign bank and nonbank institutions. A specific NBU license is required for exports of monetary re- sources above these limits. Natural persons in transit are allowed to export monetary resources up to $30,000 or its equivalent and bank metals up to 1,000 grams, provided that they had previously imported the monetary resources and submit documentary evidence of the transit nature of the travel. Natural persons traveling on official business may export upon oral declaration up to the equivalent of $3,000 in cash and/or traveler's checks in the case of residents, and the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 995 equivalent of $1,000 in the case of nonresidents. Exports of the following require a written customs declaration: (1) foreign currencies and checks previously imported legally into Ukraine; (2) up to the equivalent of $10,000 in cash and/or traveler's checks in accordance with a certificate from an authorized Ukrainian bank; and (3) for nonresident natural per- sons, checks that were imported or sent into Ukraine. For resident juridical persons that own vehicles, exports of the following require a certifi- cate from an authorized Ukrainian bank and a written customs declaration: (1) up to the equivalent of $1,000 to complete settlements on goods and services relating to passenger vehicles; (2) up to the equivalent of $2,000 to pay for automobile travel expenses; and (3) up to the equivalent of $10,000 to pay for air transportation and ferry expenses. An individual NBU license is required for amounts exceeding these limits. The captain of a vessel belonging to or chartered by a nonresident is allowed to export foreign currency (cash or traveler's checks) to pay for operating expenses and crew services, as specified by the vessel owner. For nonresident juridical persons, all exports of foreign currency require an NBU license. Resident natural persons and, effective March 1, 2004, nonresident natural persons, are permitted to import domestic currency up to HRV 1,000 upon oral declaration. A written customs declaration is required for the import of local currency that was previously ex- ported from Ukraine legally. Resident juridical persons may import up to HRV 3,000 with written customs declaration, as well as proceeds received abroad if accompanied by supporting cashier documents. Non- resident juridical persons require an individual NBU license. Resident natural persons are allowed to import up to the equivalent of $3,000 in cash and traveler's checks (effective September 17, 2003), and nonresidents, $1,000 in cash and up to the equivalent of $1,000 in checks issued by foreign banks, upon oral declaration. Im- ports of the following require a written customs declaration: (1) resources previously ex- ported legally from Ukraine; (2) up to the equivalent of $10,000 in cash; (3) up to the equivalent of $50,000 in checks issued by foreign banks and nonbanking institutions; and (4) up to 100 grams of bank metals in the form of ingots. Authorization of the NBU is re- quired above these limits. Natural persons in transit may import up to the equivalent of $30,000 in monetary resources and up to 1,000 grams of bank metals, subject to documentary evidence of the transit nature of the travel. Resident juridical persons are permitted to import foreign currencies and bank metals upon written customs declaration, provided that the amounts were previously ex- ported legally; additional amounts require supporting cashier documents. Nonresident ju- ridical persons owning, leasing, or chartering transportation facilities are allowed to import foreign currencies up to the equivalent of $50,000 upon written declaration. On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Certain conditions apply to these accounts. Yes. A license from the NBU is required, except when the account is opened during a temporary stay abroad. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Account balances may be used to purchase foreign currency in cases where there exists a legal obligation in that currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 996 UKRAINE Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Resident juridical persons of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Moldova, the Russian Federation, and Uzbekistan who open accounts with authorized Ukrainian banks must have approval from their respective central banks to open an account in Ukraine. Resident natural persons of Belarus, Kazakhstan, Moldova, and the Russian Federation are required to have approval from their country's central bank in order to open accounts in Ukraine, except during a temporary stay in Ukraine (for the purposes of study, medical treatment, or employment). Resident natural persons of Uzbekistan must have approval from their central bank to open an account in Ukraine. A nonresident investor may credit a foreign currency account with the following: (1) funds transferred from abroad for investment in Ukraine; (2) income (dividends) received by a nonresident investor from domestic investment activities, including those from unincorpo- rated joint activities and from transactions in securities; (3) funds returned as a result of partial or fu ll termination of a nonresident domestic investment activity; (4) funds trans- ferred from a nonresident natural person's current or time deposit accounts with an author- ized bank in Ukraine; (5) cash resources imported by a nonresident natural person in Ukraine, upon presentation of an import customs declaration; and (6) foreign currency pur- chased in the interbank market for the repatriation of investment. Nonresident investors may debit foreign currency accounts for the following purposes: (1) performance of investment activities in Ukraine (including reinvestments); (2) settle- ments with customs authorities in cases provided for by legislation; (3) transfers abroad of income (dividends) received from domestic investment activities, capital in the event of termination of investment activities, and balances that were transferred from a deposit ac- count with an authorized bank in Ukraine; (4) payments for services of an authorized bank servicing an account; and (5) transfers from one's own account at an authorized bank in Ukraine. Funds may be credited to and debited from accounts opened to support activities, such as cooperative production and other joint activities with the participation of unincorporated nonresident investors, exclusively for purposes prescribed by agreements (contracts) on joint investment activity, including distribution of income between parties to an arrange- ment (contract) with consideration for the requirements of current Ukrainian legislation. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts Nonresident investors may credit domestic currency accounts at an authorized bank with the following: (1) funds obtained from sales of foreign currency on the Ukrainian interbank currency exchange in connection with a foreign investment; (2) funds received as income (dividends) from investment activity in Ukraine, including from unincorporated joint activi- ties and from transactions with securities; (3) funds received as a result of the termination by a nonresident of investment activity in Ukraine; (4) funds transferred from one's own deposit account with an authorized bank in Ukraine; and (5) other credits from investment activity not in conflict with Ukrainian law. A nonresident investor may debit a domestic currency account only for the following pur- poses: (1) performance of investment activities in Ukraine, including reinvestments; (2) acquisition of foreign currency on the Ukrainian interbank currency exchange for the transfer abroad of income (dividends) from domestic investment activities or the full or partial repatriation of capital; (3) settlements with customs, tax, and other authorities in cases provided for by law; (4) settlements with residents in joint investment activities; (5) payments for services of an authorized bank servicing an account; (6) transfers of re- sources to one's own deposit account with an authorized bank in Ukraine; and (7) other payments that are prescribed by investment agreements (arrangements, contracts) and that do not conflict with law. "P" accounts may be opened for the permanent representative office of a foreign company, firm, or international organization established without the status of a legal entity, through which a nonresident conducts all or part of his or her entrepreneurial activities in Ukraine. P accounts may be credited with the proceeds from current transactions from any economic activity in Ukraine. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Convertible into foreign currency UKRAINE 997 "N" accounts may be opened for off ic ial representative offices and representative offices of nonresident legal entities that represent their interests in Ukraine but do not engage in en- trepreneurial activities in the territory of Ukraine; representative offices of foreign banks; and organizations or institutions (program or project administration groups) that implement international or technical assistance programs and projects. The holders of N accounts are regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes, although they are treated as resi- dents for tax purposes. N accounts may be credited with funds by selling foreign exchange to the servicing bank in order to effect settlements associated with the maintenance of the representative office, including embassies and consulates; for purposes stipulated by the charter of the international organization; or for an organization or institution (program or project administration group) to introduce international assistance programs and projects or international assistance. All N account holders may purchase foreign exchange on the in- terbank currency market to transfer funds abroad to the account of the relevant body whose interests they represent, including interest accrued on the balance in the account. P account holders may (1) convert and transfer to a nonresident legal person whom they represent the proceeds from transactions effected in Ukraine from the sale of goods or ser- vices, interest accrued on deposit accounts and balances in such a type P account, and the balance in an account when ceasing activities in Ukraine; and (2) credit to their own ac- count in foreign currency funds designated for labor compensation of nonresident employ- ees and for payments for business trips abroad. Holders of Type N accounts may use funds from these accounts to purchase foreign currency on the Ukrainian interbank currency ex- change for the purpose of transferring it to (1) the account of the appropriate authority of a foreign state or the account of the nonresident juridical person whose interests are repre- sented in Ukraine by the mission (transfers may also be made in the event of termination of the mission's activities, as confirmed by the appropriate documents); or (2) their own for- eign currency account with an authorized bank for compensation of work performed by nonresident employees, for business travel, and for entertainment expenses abroad. Nonresident natural persons may convert and transfer abroad funds from hryvnia- denominated accounts. Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. Importers must receive goods or services within 90 days from the date advance payment is made or a bill of exchange is provided. An NBU license is required if payment is made more than 90 days in advance. To purchase foreign currency in Group 1 of the NBU foreign currency nomenclature on the Ukrainian interbank currency exchange and transfer it abroad to pay for imports, residents must provide the bank with pertinent import contracts. In addition, when a contract exceeds $10,000 or its equivalent in another foreign currency, a resident needs to obtain a certificate from the STA confirming information on the resident's bank account and registration as a taxpayer and indicating the amount of the foreign currency to be purchased under the con- tract or agreement. A certificate from the STA is also required to transfer any amount of foreign currency to accounts of nonresidents registered in offshore zones. Domiciliation requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection Inspection is not mandatory but may be undertaken by the Ukrainian Chamber of Com- merce and Industry at the request of nonresidents. Letters of credit Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 998 UKRAINE Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Nontariff measures are limited to those carried out for national safety and environmental reasons. There are three customs duty categories with a trade-weighted average rate of about 5% (including energy imports). The first category (preferred duty rate) applies to goods from countries with which Ukraine has a free trade agreement, imports from developing countries, and imports from countries that have a preferential agreement with Ukraine. The second category (concessional duty rate) applies to imports from countries that have entered into MFN agreements with Ukraine. The third category applies to imports from other countries. A VAT of 20% is levied on most imports, and some imports are subject to excise taxes. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must repatriate all proceeds in foreign currency or hryvnias through domestic commercial banks within 90 days of shipment. An NBU license is required if the repatria- tion period for export proceeds exceeds 90 days. There is a 50% surrender requirement for resident entities engaging in entrepreneurial ac- tivity with respect to foreign currency in Group 1 of the NBU's Classification of Foreign Currencies and Bank Metals. Proceeds must be channeled for sale through the Ukrainian interbank currency exchange. Financing requirements n.a. Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Export licenses With quotas Inspection is not mandatory but may be undertaken by the Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce and Industry at the request of residents. Goods subject to voluntary export restraints or other international agreements and those fa l l ing under the "special export regime"—coal, precious metal scrap, and alcoholic bever- ages—are also subject to export quotas and licenses. The licenses required for these goods are, however, freely provided, except in the case of precious metal scrap. For grain exports, sales must take place through the agricultural commodity exchange. Export contract prereg- istration is limited to goods subject to voluntary export restraints or antidumping actions. Registration of exports is automatic and for statistical purposes only. Export taxes Taxes are applied to exports of sunflower seeds, livestock, skins, and hides. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for travel Quantitative limits A nonresident requires a certificate from the STA stating that there are no outstanding tax l iab i l i t ies associated with the underlying transaction. On February 6, 2003, new anti- money laundering regulations came into effect, requiring that all transactions involving HRV 80,000 or more be reported. Income from domestic investments may be transferred abroad without restriction upon confirmation and payment of taxes due. The limits on exports of domestic and foreign currency apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 999 Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Quantitative limits Resident natural persons may freely transfer foreign currency abroad for current noncom- mercial transactions as defined in current legislation. Depending on the purpose of the transfer, transfers in excess of established norms require an NBU license. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Residents may use abroad credit cards that are issued by Ukrainian banks. Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds, except those of a few organizations with international operations (i.e., those en- terprises licensed by the NBU to open and use some funds from an account abroad for their maintenance, such as the national airlines), are subject to repatriation requirements. Fifty percent of proceeds in foreign currencies listed in Group 1 of the NBU's foreign cur- rency nomenclature must be surrendered and sold in the interbank market. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions must be registered. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Foreign securities may be traded in Ukraine once they have been registered with the State Securities and Stock Market Commission. They must be placed with a depository in the country of their origin and either be listed on the stock exchange or be cleared for transaction in the trading information system in the country of their origin and be listed with one of the following stock exchanges: the American Stock Exchange, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange, the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Toronto Stock Exchange, the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, or the London Stock Exchange. Persons offering foreign securities for sale in Ukraine must provide Ukrainian investors with the opportunity to inspect the issuance prospectus and the issuer's report for the most recent fiscal year. An NBU license is required for residents to acquire foreign securities domestically. Purchase abroad by residents An NBU license is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases must be registered. Authorized banks acquire bonds on instructions of nonresi- dents at auctions conducted by the NBU. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1000 UKRAINE Purchase abroad by residents An NBU license is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents A resident issuer may place securities outside Ukraine upon receipt of the appropriate per- mit from the State Securities and Stock Market Commission. On money market instruments The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. On collective investment securities The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are controls on all transactions in derivatives and other similar instruments. Effective September 17, 2003, hedging is permitted for exchange risks arising from contracts be- tween residents and foreign economic entities, provided that the hedging is carried out through banking institutions and the foreign currency involved is included in Group 1 of the NBU's Classification of Foreign Currencies and Bank Metals. Transactions with other foreign currency derivatives (such as futures and options) for which the underlying asset is a foreign currency in Group 1 of the NBU classification are prohibited. In the interbank currency market, there is no prohibition on operations with fiiture contracts for which the underlying asset is the exchange rate or cross rate of a foreign currency; settlements on these contracts are in hryvnias. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents An NBU license is required if the repayment deadline exceeds 90 days. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These transactions require a license and written permission from the NBU. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Effective February 12, 2003, natural persons are permitted to obtain credits from nonresi- dents after registering with the NBU. Such registration is not required for commercial banks if the credits have a maturity of one year or less. An NBU license and written NBU permission are required for banks and financial institutions. Direct investments by residents abroad (including resident acquisitions of foreign securities in Ukraine and abroad) are subject to individual NBU licenses. The acquisition of foreign securities by a resident is considered a portfolio investment and requires an NBU license. Acquisitions of interest in a Ukrainian enterprise (including through the acquisition of secu- rities) by nonresident investors must be registered within three days after the investments are undertaken. Registration of foreign investments is administered by the Council of Min- isters of the Autonomous Crimean Republic and by state administrations of the oblasts and of the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol. Foreign investments in Ukraine may be undertaken in any currency listed in Group 1 of the NBU foreign exchange nomenclature. Foreign investments in most types of businesses are permitted, although licenses are re- quired in some cases. Investments in insurance and businesses engaged in intermediation activities require a license from the MOF, and investments in the banking sector require a license from the NBU. The transfer of proceeds, after payment of taxes due, is not restricted. These transactions are considered foreign direct investments abroad and are subject to an NBU license. Acquisitions and terminations of property rights are determined by the country in which the property is located. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 1001 Purchase locally by nonresidents These transactions are considered domestic capital investments by nonresidents and must be registered as direct investments. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents An NBU license is required. To residents from nonresidents These loan agreements must be registered with the NBU. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfers by nonresident natural persons are not restricted after settlement of tax liabilities. Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Transfers by nonresident natural persons are unrestricted. Borrowing abroad Loan agreements exceeding one year require registration with the NBU. Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) A license and written permission from the NBU are required. Lending locally in foreign exchange A license and written permission from the NBU are required. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks Different reserve requirements apply to deposits, depending on the type and currency of the funds. An NBU license is required. In banks by nonresidents Yes. Open foreign exchange position limits Open foreign exchange position limits are set in accordance with standards established by the NBU. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Diversified mu tual funds are prohibited from (1) acquiring or investing additionally in shares and bonds of foreign issuers cleared for trading on organized stock exchanges of foreign countries in amounts exceeding 20% of the mutual fund 's total value; (2) acquiring or investing additionally in other assets, as allowed by legislation, in amounts exceeding 5% of the mutual fund 's assets; (3) acquiring or exchanging securities issued by persons, asset management companies, or depositories that are affiliated with the mutual fund; and (4) acquiring or investing additionally in securities with income guaranteed by foreign gov- ernments in amounts exceeding 20% of the total value of the mutual fund 's assets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1002 UKRAINE Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Other controls imposed by securities laws If a closed undiversified mutual fund makes an exclusively private placement of its own securities and more than 50% of its assets consist of corporate rights and securities not cleared for trading on the stock exchange or for the trading information system, it is treated as a venture fund. Only juridical persons may be participants in a venture fund. Diversified mutual funds are prohibited from (1) holding more than 30% of the total value of the mutual fund 's assets in monetary resources, bank deposit accounts, savings certifi- cates, and/or bonds issued by commercial banks; (2) acquiring or investing additionally in securities of one issuer in amounts exceeding 5% of the total value of the mutual fund 's assets; (3) acquiring or investing additionally in government securities with income guaran- teed by the Cabinet of Ministers in amounts exceeding 25% of the total value of the mutual fund 's assets (investment of a mutual fund 's resources in fewer than three types of govern- ment securities is prohibited); (4) acquiring or investing additionally in securities of local governments in amounts exceeding 10% of the total value of assets; (5) acquiring or invest- ing additionally in bonds of enterprises issued by residents (except commercial banks) in amounts exceeding 20% of the total value of the mutual fund 's assets; and (6) acquiring or investing additionally more than 40% of the total value of the mutual fund in shares of Ukrainian issuers. If a closed undiversified mutual fund makes an exclusively private placement of its own securities, and more than 50% of its assets consist of corporate rights and securities not cleared for trading on the stock exchange or for the trading information system, it is treated as a venture fund. Only juridical persons may be participants in a venture fund. Assets of a mutual fund are managed by an asset management company (any juridical per- son created pursuant to Ukrainian legislation may be an asset management company). The total value of the assets of a mutual fund that are managed by a single asset management company may not exceed an amount set by the commission's statutes and regulations. Effective February 16, 2003, an NBU license is required for purchases by residents of for- eign currency in the interbank foreign exchange market and for repurchase of Ukrainian securities from nonresidents. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement March 14. The 5% l im it on commissions charged on purchases of noncash foreign ex- change was eliminated. Arrangements for payments and receipts February 12. Resident natural persons may export foreign currency up to the equivalent of $3,000 in cash and/or traveler's checks upon oral declaration. September 17. Resident natural persons may import foreign currency up to the equivalent of $3,000 in cash and/or traveler's checks upon oral declaration. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers February 6. New anti-money laundering regulations came into effect, requiring reporting of all transactions involving HRV 80,000 or more. Capital transactions Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations September 17. Hedging by residents was permitted for exchange risks arising from business activities, provided that hedging is conducted through an authorized bank and the curren- cies involved are listed in Group 1 of the NBU's Classification of Foreign Currencies and Bank Metals. February 12. Natural persons were permitted to obtain credits from nonresidents after reg- istering with the NBU, and registration was no longer required for bank credits of one year or less. Other controls imposed by securities laws February 16. An NBU license is required for purchases of foreign exchange by residents in the interbank foreign exchange market and for repurchases of Ukrainian securities from nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UKRAINE 1003 Changes During 2004 Exchange arrangement January 1. A 1.5% fee was imposed on purchases of noncash foreign currency; the proceeds were earmarked for government pension insurance. Arrangements for payments and receipts March 1. Nonresident natural persons were permitted to import domestic currency up to HRV 1,000 and export up to the equivalent of $ 1,000 in foreign currency upon oral declaration. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 13, 1974. Currency The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U.A.E. dirham. Exchange Arrangement Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The U.A.E. dirham is pegged to the dollar, the intervention currency, at Dh 3.67275 per $1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. The United Arab Emirates Central Bank (UAECB) maintains a swap facility, which the commercial banks may use to purchase dirhams spot and to sell dirhams forward for peri- ods of one week, one month, and three months. For each bank, maximum limits of the equivalent of $20 million outstanding for one-month and three-month swaps and $10 mil- lion outstanding for one-week swaps are in effect. There is also a daily limit of $3 million on purchases by each bank for one-month and three-month swaps. This facility is designed to provide temporary dirham liquidity to commercial banks. Swap facilities are not avail- able to banks having a short position in dirhams, except for covering forward transactions for commercial purposes. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes There are no prescription requirements, but settlements with Israel are prohibited. Effective January 1, 2003, the GCC customs union came into effect. No. No. No. No. No. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Yes. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad These accounts may be maintained in offshore affiliates of domestic banks. 1004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 1005 Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be opened by banks and trade, financial, and industrial companies incorporated outside the United Arab Emirates that have no local branches; by branches of local institutions in foreign countries; and by embassies and diplomatic agencies. These accounts may also be opened by U.A.E. citizens working abroad and by nonresident foreigners working in the United Arab Emirates. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Only licensed parties may engage in import trade. Importers may import only the goods specified in their licenses. Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of a few products are prohibited for health, security, or moral reasons. Imports from Israel are prohibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Most imports are subject to a customs duty of 4% of their c.i.f. value. In accordance with the GCC customs union, effective January 1, 2003, a maximum GET of 5% applies on most dutiable goods. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1006 UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents At least 51% of the shares of U.A.E. corporations must be held by U.A.E. nationals or or- ganizations. Companies domiciled in free zones are exempt from this requirement and may be up to 100% foreign owned. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases by GCC residents are exempt from controls. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issuance of some mutual funds is permitted. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. At least 51% of the equity of companies, other than branches of foreign companies, must be held by nationals of the United Arab Emirates. GCC nationals are permitted to hold (1) up to 75% of the equity of companies in the industrial, agricultural, fisheries, and construction sectors; and (2) up to 100% of the equity of companies in the hotel industry. GCC nationals are also permitted to engage in wholesale and retail trade activities, except in the form of companies, in which case they are subject to the Company Law. In free zones, foreign ownership is permitted up to 100%. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents may own properties in some real estate developments in Dubai. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Commercial banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are prohibited from engaging in nonbanking operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are required to maintain special deposits with the UAECB equal to 30% of their dirham placements with, or loans to, nonresident banks when these transactions have a remaining maturity of one year or less. The profits of foreign banks are subject to a profit tax levied by local authorities at an annual rate of 20%. Investment regulations Abroad by banks Banks are not allowed to lend more than 7% of their capital base to one foreign institution. Also, they are not allowed to invest more than 25% of their own funds in shares or bonds issued by commercial companies. Loans to foreign governments with a first-class credit rating and placement in such countries' financial institutions are exempt from such limits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 1007 In banks by nonresidents Nonresidents may not acquire more than 20% of the share capital of any national bank. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments Changes During 2003 January L The GCC customs un ion came into operation. January L In accordance with the GCC customs union, a maximum CET of 5% was applied to most dutiable goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position as of June 30, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of the United Kingdom is the pound sterling. Gold sovereigns and britannias are legal tender, but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independen t ly f loa t ing Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions The exchange rate of the pound sterling is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. However, the authorities may intervene at their discretion to moderate undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. No. No. Banks are allowed to engage in forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free market exchange rates. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. Pursuant to relevant EU and UN Security Council resolutions, it is an offense to (1) make any funds or related financial services available for the benefit of any person associated with terrorism or the Taliban; or (2) hold funds by, for, or on behalf of any person or entity who is or may be a terrorist, except under the authority of a license granted by the Treasury. In addition, banks have been instructed to freeze all funds and other financial resources of those ind iv idua ls and organizations designated by the Taliban Sanctions Committee or any person or entity associated with the Taliban, and to freeze all funds and other financial resources of persons or entities designated as terrorists. In accordance with EU Regulation No. 147/2003, effective January 27, 2003, financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia are prohibited. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions In accordance with EU regulations and the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, cer- tain restrictions are maintained on the making of payments and transfers for current interna- t ional transactions with respect to certain individuals associated with the former govern- ments of Iraq, the former Republic of Yugoslavia, and, effective March 12, 2004, Liberia. Restrictions are also imposed with respect to certain members of the current governments of Myanmar and Zimbabwe. Restrictions also apply on transfers with respect to Al-Qaida, the Taliban, and individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. In accordance with EU Regulation No. 146/2003, effective January 30, 2003, the financial sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola have been lifted. Following the adoption of UN 1008 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 1009 Security Council Resolution No. 1506, effective September 29, 2003, financial sanctions imposed against Libya have been lifted. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Gold bullion and gold coins are not subject to controls. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin that is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or that, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969, ceased to be so. There is a gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. The exportation of gold in manufactured form more than 50 years old and valued at £8,000 or more for each item, or matching set of items, also requires a license from the Department of Culture, Media, and Sport. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import restrictions are in effect for public safety reasons and to satisfy international obliga- tions. Open general licenses Most imports are admitted to the United Kingdom under an OGL. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1010 UNITED KINGDOM Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures The remaining restrictions concern textiles and clothing under the MFA and are maintained under various EU bilateral agreements with third countries that are not members of the MFA; certain steel products from Russia and Ukraine that are subject to the EU bilateral agreements; autonomous EU-wide restrictions on imports of certain steel products from Kazakhstan; EU-wide tariff quotas on certain products produced in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic; and EU-wide quotas on certain footwear and ceramic products from China. There are EU dual-surveillance licensing arrangements for imports of certain foot- wear products from Vietnam, and for imports of steel products from the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Republic. In accordance with EU arrangements, there are prior surveillance licensing arrangements for imports of certain nontextile products from China and certain steel products from all sources. Imports of cars from Japan are also sub- ject to restraint under a separate agreement (the Elements of Consensus) between the EU and the Japanese government. A few articles may be imported under OGLs (i.e., without limit as to quantity or value). Effective May 1, 2004, imports from Cyprus, the Czech Re- public, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia; Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Slovenia, and the Slovak Re- public are subject to the current EU licensing controls because of membership in the EU. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to minimum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products are subject to EU regulations. Effective February 13, 2003, imports of rough diamonds are permitted only if accompanied by a Kimberly Process certificate that has been validated by the exporting government, and if secured within a tamper-resistant container with the original seals intact (EC Directive 2368/2002). Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Yes. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Exports of certain products are controlled for reasons of national security, animal welfare, national heritage, and in accordance with international agreements. Effective February 13, 2003, exports of rough diamonds are permitted only if accompanied by a validated Kimberly Process certificate, and if secured within a tamper-resistant con- tainer with the original seals intact (EC Directive 2368/2002). Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Open foreign exchange position limits UNITED KINGDOM 1011 Capital Transactions Yes. No. No. No. The Secretary of State for Trade and Industry may proh ib it a proposed transfer of control of an important U.K. manufacturing undertaking to a nonresident when the transfer of a sub- stantial part is considered contrary to the interests of the United Kingdom in terms of public policy, public security, or public health. If it is considered that the national interest cannot appropriately be protected in any other way, property in such a proposal or completed transfer may be compulsorily acquired against compensation. Both prohibition and vesting orders are subject to parliamentary approval. These powers have not been used to date. No. No. No. Net spot liabilities in foreign currencies (i.e., the net amount of foreign currency resources fund ing sterling assets) form part of a bank 's eligible liabilities that are subject to a 0.15% non-interest bearing deposit requirement with the Bank of England. Effective June 1, 2004, the level of the required deposit is based on the average of reported eligible liabilities over a six-month period in excess of the equivalent of £500 m i l l ion (previously, £400 million). This rule applies to banks as well as to bu i ld ing societies. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts January 27. Financing of and financial assistance related to military activities in Somalia were prohibited. Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds January 30. The f inanc ial sanctions imposed against UNITA in Angola were l i f ted. September 29. The f inanc ial sanctions imposed against Libya were lifted. February 13. Imports of diamonds require a validated Kimberly Process certificate and are subject to tamper-proof container requirements (EC Directive 2368/2002). February 13. Exports of diamonds require a validated Kimberly Process certificate and are subject to tamper-proof container requirements (EC Directive 2368/2002). Arrangements for payments and receipts March 12. Restrictions were imposed on transactions with respect to certain individuals associated with the former government of Liberia. Changes During 2004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 12 UNITED KINGDOM Imports and import payments Capital transactions May 1. Previous licensing requirements on imports from Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Es- tonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Slovenia, and the Slovak Republic were abolished. As members of the EU, these countries became subject to the current EU licens- ing controls. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions June 1. The open foreign exchange position limits above which deposits are required were raised to the equivalent of £500 million from £400 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 10, 1946. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the United States is the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the dollar is determined freely in the foreign exchange market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Yes. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative No. Yes. Regional arrangements The United States is a member of the NAFTA and the NAFA. Administration of control No. International security restrictions The Department of the Treasury (Treasury) administers economic sanctions programs in- volving direct or indirect f inanc ial or commercial transactions with Cuba, the Islamic Re- pub l ic of Iran, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libya, Myanmar (effec- tive Ju ly 29, 2003), Sudan, the Taliban, Zimbabwe (effective March 7, 2003), indictees designated by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and certain persons associated with the government of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, persons who threaten international stabilization efforts in the Western Balkans, foreign terrorists who threaten to disrupt the Middle East peace process, foreign terrorist organiza- tions, designated global terrorists, and designated narcotics traffickers, as specified under the following: (1) the Cuban Assets Control Regulations; (2) the Iranian Assets Control Regulations and the Iranian Transactions Regulations; (3) the Iraqi Sanctions Regulations; (4) the Foreign Assets Control Regulations; (5) the Libyan Sanctions Regulations; (6) the Sudanese Sanctions Regulations; (7) the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Milosevic Sanc- tions Regulations and residual provisions of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Kosovo Sanctions Regulations; (8) the Western Balkans Stabilization Regulations; (9) Executive Order No. 13224 ("Blocking Property and Prohibiting Transactions with Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support Terrorism"); (10) the Terrorism Sanctions Regu- lations; (11) the Foreign Terrorist Organizations Sanctions Regulations; and (12) the Nar- cotics Trafficking Sanctions Regulations and Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Sanctions. The Treasury has the administrative responsibility for blocked accounts of most sanctions targets. The comprehensive sanctions with respect to the former Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia have been lifted with respect to present transactions with persons other than specific members of the government, their associates, and individual war criminals. However, cer- tain funds and other properties blocked under these sanctions programs remain blocked un t il provision is made to address claims or encumbrances with respect to such funds and 1013 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1014 UNITED STATES property, including the claims of the successor states of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (most of these assets have been unblocked). The Treasury also prohibits trade in rough diamonds with countries that do not participate in the Kimberly Process Certification Scheme (under the Rough Diamonds Control Regula- tions); restricts certain offshore transactions involving strategic merchandise to certain countries, under the Transaction Control Regulations; prohibits donative transfers, or those that pose a risk of furthering terrorist acts in the United States by the government of Syria, under the Terrorism List Governments Sanctions Regulations; prohibits imports into the United States from certain entities that proliferate nuclear, biological, or chemical weapons, under the Weapons of Mass Destruction Trade Control Regulations; and asserts protective jurisdiction over property and property interests of the government of the Russian Federa- tion that are in the United States and directly related to the implementation of the Highly Enriched Uranium Agreements under Executive Order No. 13159 ("Blocked Property of the Government of the Russian Federation Relating to the Disposal of Highly Enriched Uranium Extracted from Nuclear Weapons"). Effective May 6, 2003, sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials were lifted. Certain restrictions are imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions. Foreign assets control regulations permit most transactions with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and its nationals, and a review procedure for the importation of goods therefrom has been established. The assets of the following are blocked, and certain transactions with them are prohibited: specified foreign persons and foreign persons later determined to have committed or to pose a significant risk of commit- ting acts of terrorism that threaten national security, foreign policy, the U.S. economy, or the security of U.S. nationals; persons owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of terrorists or their supporters; persons providing assistance or financial, material, or techno- logical support for, or financial or other services to, or in support of terrorists or acts of terrorism; and persons otherwise associated with any of the foregoing persons. The Treasury administers economic sanctions programs on the basis of UN Security Coun- cil Resolution Nos. 1267, 1363, 1373, and 1390 involving certain direct or indirect finan- cial or commercial transactions with Iraq, Serbia and Montenegro, and persons associated with terrorism. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade No controls are imposed, except for the countries and groups of persons to which international security restrictions apply. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Individuals leaving or entering the United States with more than the equivalent of $10,000 in domestic or foreign currency, traveler's checks, money orders, or negotiable bearer securities must declare these to customs at the point of exit or entry. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs UNITED STATES 1015 Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. The accounts of the following nations and entities are blocked: Cuba and Cuban nationals; Iraq; Libya; Sudan; Myanmar; persons undermining democratic processes and institutions in Zimbabwe; foreign terrorists who threaten to disrupt the Middle East peace process; foreign terrorist organizations; persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and specific persons associated with the government of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; specially designated narcotics traffickers; foreign persons who threaten international stabilization efforts in the Western Balkans; and foreign persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism. Funds associated with Highly En- riched Uranium agreements concluded with the Russian Federation are also blocked. Cer- tain accounts previously blocked pursuant to economic sanctions against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and Serbia and Montenegro remain blocked, notwithstanding an easing of such sanctions. However, effective February 25, 2003, most blocked accounts of Serbia and Montenegro and the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were unblocked. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. The importation of most goods and services originating in Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Libya, or Sudan or that were produced or provided by certain entities that prolif- erate nuclear, biological, or chemical weapons is prohibited unless specifically authorized by the Treasury. Imports from the Democratic People's Republic of Korea require prior notification to and approval from the Office of Foreign Assets Control. The importation of rough diamonds from Angola, Liberia, and Sierra Leone is prohibited unless they have passed through the certificate-of-origin process in these countries. Effective May 1, 2003, imports of clothing and textiles from Vietnam are subject to an annual quota of $1.7 billion. Bilateral import quota agreements on textiles and clothing exist with numerous countries. These are to be phased out over 10 years beginning in 1995 under the ATC, negotiated in the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations. The ATC provided for the gradual and complete integration of apparel and textile products into the WTO regime over a 10-year transition period, and the gradual phasing out of quan- titative restrictions on textile and apparel exports to the United States. Integration is taking place in four stages: in 1995, 16% of the volume of textile and apparel trade was integrated; at the beginning of year 4 and year 7, an additional 17% and 18%, respectively, were inte- grated; and after year 10, all remaining products will be integrated. With regard to the phas- ing out of quotas, the majority of quotas affecting imports to the United States will be sub- ject to automatic "growth-on-growth" liberalization during each year of the transition period. Import tariffs are generally low, with higher-than-average rates for imports of beverages and tobacco, textiles and clothing, and leather and footwear. As a result of the Uruguay Round, all tariff lines are bound. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1016 UNITED STATES Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. The Department of Commerce (DOC) controls the export and reexport of dual-use prod- ucts, technology, and software for reasons of national security, foreign policy, nonprolifera- tion, and short supply. Except for shipment to U.S. territories and possessions, which are treated as part of the United States, most exports outside the United States are subject to the Export Administration Regulations. Several agencies of the U.S. government maintain export controls on products other than dual-use articles and services. For example, the Treasury prohibits exports of certain types of goods, services, and technology to specifi- cally sanctioned countries and recipients, and certain exports to sanctioned countries are subject to licenses that are issued on a day-by-day basis, pursuant to established policies and procedures. Likewise, the Department of Agriculture controls the export of livestock, dairy, and poultry items. Ammunition for military use may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Defense Trade Controls in the Department of State. The DOC administers controls on exports of crime-control items, detection equipment, and related technologies to most countries that depend on the commodities. Export taxes n.a. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Laws on inward direct investment apply to purchases in the United States by nonresidents. The control applies only to the purchases by nonresidents of securities that may be re- stricted by laws on inward direct investment and on establishment in the nuclear energy, maritime, communications, and air transport industries. Foreign mutual funds are restricted. This restriction applies only to (1) nonresident issuers that are defined as investment companies under the Investment Company Act and (2) the use of small business registration forms and a small-issues exemption by nonresident issuers. Foreign mutual funds are restricted. The control applies only to nonresident issuers that are defined as investment companies under the Investment Company Act. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 1017 On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The regulations governing shares and other securities of a participating nature apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment The Johnson Act prohibits, with certain exceptions, persons within the United States from dealing in financial obligations or extending loans to foreign governments that have de- faulted on payments of their obligations to the U.S. government. The act does not apply to those foreign governments that are members of both the IMF and the World Bank. There are also controls on investment transactions with or involving Cuba and Cuban na- tionals; the Islamic Republic of Iran; Iraq; Libya; Myanmar; Sudan; persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism; foreign terrorists who disrupt the Middle East peace process; persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and persons associated with the government of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; specially designated narcotics traffickers; and foreign persons who threaten international stabilization efforts in the Western Balkans. Laws on inward direct investment apply to purchases in the United States by nonresidents. This control applies only to investments that may be restricted by laws on inward direct investment and establishment in the nuclear energy, maritime, communications, and air transport industries. Foreign acquisitions of control that threaten to impair national security may be suspended or prohibited. Investments involving ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state banking laws and regulations. However, as noted above, there are controls on investment transactions with or involving Cuba and Cuban nationals; the Islamic Republic of Iran; Iraq; Libya; Sudan; persons indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and persons associated with the government of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; persons who threaten international stabilization efforts in the Western Balkans, foreign terrorists who threaten to disrupt the Middle East peace process; persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism; foreign terrorist organizations; and specially designated drug traffickers. The Omnibus Trade Act contains a provision, the Exon-Florio Amendment, authorizing the president to suspend or prohibit foreign acquisitions, mergers, and takeovers in the United States if he determines that the foreign investor might take action that would threaten to impair national security and if existing laws, other than the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the Exon-Florio Amendment itself, are not, in the president's judgment, adequate or appropriate to protect national security. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Ownership of agricultural land by foreign nationals or by corporations in which foreign owners have an interest of at least 10% or substantial control must be reported to the Department of Agriculture. Certain states in the United States impose various controls on foreign nationals' purchases of land within their borders. Controls on personal capital transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Investment regulations Banks are subject to prudential oversight in these areas. Open foreign exchange position limits The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual cur- rencies, are not subject to quantitative limitations, but banks are subject to prudential over- sight. In addition, large foreign exchange market participants are required to report their holdings of five major foreign currencies and dollars weekly, monthly, or quarterly. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1018 UNITED STATES Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. Arrangements for payments and receipts Changes During 2003 March 7. Sanctions were imposed on Zimbabwe. May 6. Sanctions against the UNITA movement in Angola and its senior officials were lifted. July 29. Sanctions were imposed on Myanmar. Nonresident accounts February 25. Most accounts of Serbia and Montenegro and the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were unblocked. Imports and import payments May 1. Imports of clothing and textiles from Vietnam were made subject to an annual quota of $1.7 billion. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: May 2, 1980. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan peso. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating Exchange tax The exchange rate of the Uruguayan peso is determined on the basis of supply and demand, although the Central Bank of Uruguay (CBU) reserves the right to intervene to ensure orderly market conditions. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. Purchases of foreign exchange by public sector institutions are subject to a tax of 2%, with the exception of those by the CBU and off ic ial banks, which are exempt from the tax. Exchange subsidy No. Forward exchange market Under a contract executed between the CBU and Banco de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay, the latter sells dollars forward to the CBU (however, this facility has not been used since January 9, 2003). Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements of balances under the multilateral clearing system are made in dollars. A bilateral payments arrangement with Cuba is inoperative. Payments between Uruguay and the other LAIA countries may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Yes. Operations are carried out through banks and finance houses that have been authorized by the CBU. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell financial gold with a fineness of not less than 0.9. Controls on external trade Residents may freely import and export gold with a fineness of not less than 0.9. Gold for industrial purposes is subject to the general policy that governs the exportation, importation, and trading of goods. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 1019 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1020 URUGUAY Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. n.r. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Open general licenses Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Imports of chicken parts and used cars are prohibited. All imports are subject to registration that is generally valid for 180 days; goods must be cleared through customs during that period. Under MERCOSUR, a GET exists among Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay. There are 11 tax rates. Initially, the maximum rate was 20%. A surcharge imposed in 1997 raised this maximum to 23%. Uruguay was granted an exemption from the surcharge for capital and certain intermediate goods. Regionally produced capital goods and telecommunications equipment are subject to tariffs of 14% and 16%, respectively. Parties to MERCOSUR were permitted to exempt up to 300 goods from the CET until 2001, at which time they became subject to the CET. However, for Uruguay, the tariffs on capital goods, telecom- munications equipment, buses, and trucks will not be subject to the CET until 2006. Import duties among MERCOSUR countries have been generally eliminated, with certain exceptions. Duties on wheat, tires, paper, glass, sugar, textiles, and apparel are computed on the basis of "minimum export prices," which provide a basis for a sliding surcharge on these goods, depending on the difference between the minimum prices and declared c.i.f. import prices. Imports of derivatives are subject to a state monopoly and are expected to be liberalized in 2006. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY 1021 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Occasionally, and for special reasons (e.g., stock position, protection, or sanitary considera- tions), certain exports are prohibited or are subject to special requirements. Exports of dry, salted, and pickled hides are subject to a 5% tax. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital transactions No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments The Capital Market Securities and Negotiable Obligations Law provides a framework in which financial markets are largely self-regulating but supervised by the CBU. Mutual and private pension funds, as well as insurance companies, are regulated separately. Although private pension funds must hold a minimum percentage of 40% in the form of government securities, the transitory maintenance of time deposits with the CBU is permitted without limitations. In the public sector, the type of operation permitted depends on the type of institution. Government agencies are covered by their own by-laws, and the central gov- ernment and departmental governments are covered by their own procedures, which are more restrictive. On collective investment securities The Mutual Funds Law defines instruments and contains several requirements regarding conflicts of interest and safekeeping. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment n.r. No. The Law for the Promotion and Protection of Investment requires identical treatment of domestic and foreign investors and free transfer of capital. It provides for certain exemp- tions from wealth and value-added taxes and for the reduction of social security taxes to a 3% rate. It establishes national priorities and provides corresponding incentives. It exempts from tariffs imported inputs whose domestic production has been reduced or discontinued. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1022 URUGUAY Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Effective October 1, 2003, the mandatory m in imum reserve requirements for deposits in local currency are 17%, 9%, 6%, and 4% for maturities of less than 30 days, 30 to 90 days, 91 to 180 days, and 181 to 367 days, respectively. Effective April 2, 2003, the mandatory m in imum reserve requirement for deposits in local currency was reduced to 27.5%, 21.5%, and 5% for maturities of less than 30 days, 30 to 180 days, and 181 to 367 days, respectively. Effective July 1, 2003, the mandatory mini- mum reserve requirement was reduced to 22.5%, 16.5%, and 5% for domestic currency deposits with maturities of less than 30 days, 30 to 180 days, and 181 to 367 days, respec- tively. On August 1, 2003, the mandatory minimum reserve requirement was reduced to 20%, 14%, and 5% for domestic currency deposits with maturities of less than 30 days, 30 to 180 days, and 181 to 367 days, respectively. Effective September 7, 2003, the manda- tory minimum reserve requirement was reduced to 17.5%, 11.5%, and 5% for domestic currency deposits with maturities of less than 30 days, 30 to 180 days, and 181 to 367 days, respectively. Foreign currency deposits are subject to mandatory minimum reserve requirements. Effec- tive October 1, 2003, the mandatory reserve requirements on foreign currency interest- bearing deposits are in 25% (previously, 10%) for maturities of less than 180 days and 19% (previously, 4%) for longer maturities. In addition, a mandatory minimum interest-bearing reserve requirement of 15% is applied to total deposits in foreign currency. Until January 1, 2004, banks were required to partially satisfy this requirement by holding dollar- denominated certificates of deposit issued by the CBU in an amount equal to at least 6% of total deposits. The remaining reserve requirement is met with deposits in the CBU. Certain banks are subject to a 100% reserve requirement for sight and savings accounts. Reserves are computed on the basis of daily average deposits, including weekends. For foreign currency deposits, at least 90% of the required reserves need to be complied with on a daily basis. For peso deposits, reserve balances are allowed to be less than the required level for up to four days a month without penalty. Deposits placed by nonresidents are exempt from the foreign currency reserve requirement. Effective April 2, 2003, at least 30% of nonresident deposits are required to be held in a portfolio of liquid assets. Effective May 1, 2003, at least 30% of nonresident deposits are required to be held in high-quality asset portfolios, with a minimum of 15% in liquid assets (following a timetable). A ceiling is placed on foreign or local currency asset positions of 150% of the book value equity less administrative fixed assets (i.e., nonperforming loans that are two years or more overdue, fixed assets, investments, and deferred charges). Effective December 7, 2003, the ceiling on the long or short asset-liability positions in foreign currency-denominated "op- erations to be settled" (i.e., future contracts and sales of securities subject to repurchase agreements) is 150% (previously, 20%) of the book value equity less administrative fixed assets. In addition, effective the same date, a ceiling applies on the foreign currency posi- tion (after deduction of the operations to be settled position) of 170% of the book value equity less administrative fixed assets. Effective May 26, 2003, there is a limit for pension funds of 0.4% of assets up to a max imum of the equivalent of US$2 m i l l ion on intraday trading in foreign currencies. However, if 0.4% of assets is a figure of less than US$1 m i l l ion for a given fund, it may trade up to that absolute amount daily. Effective February 28, 2003, in calculating pension fund s' compliance with the intraday trading limit of 1.5% of local currency assets, these funds were allowed to multiply the value of their local currency-denominated private sector instruments by 1.8. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY 1023 Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Effective April 25, 2003, insurance companies may invest abroad a maximum of 30% (pre- viously, 25%) of total assets used for covering technical provisions and required capital. Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Private pension funds must hold a minimum of 40% and a maximum of 60% of total assets in the form of government securities. In the public sector, the type of operation permitted depends on the type of institution. Government agencies are covered by their own by-laws, and the central government and departmental governments are covered by their own proce- dures, which are more restrictive. Pension funds are required to increase the share of their assets held in peso-denominated instruments to 35% by the end of March 2003 and to 40% by the end of December 2003. Insurance companies must match assets with liabilities in each currency. No. Changes During 2003 April 2. The mandatory minimum reserve requirement was reduced to 27.5%, 21.5%, and 5% for deposits in local currency with maturities of less than 30 days, 30 to 180 days, and 181 to 367 days, respectively. April 2. At least 30% of nonresident deposits were required to be held in a portfolio of liquid assets. May 1. At least 30% of nonresident deposits must be held in high-quality asset portfolios, with a minimum of 15% in liquid assets (following a timetable). July 1. The mandatory minimum reserve requirement was reduced to 22.5%, 16.5%, and 5% for domestic currency deposits with maturities of less than 30 days, 30 to 180 days, and 181 to 367 days, respectively. August L The mandatory minimum reserve requirement was reduced to 20%, 14%, and 5% for domestic currency deposits with maturities of less than 30 days, 30 to 180 days, and 181 to 367 days, respectively. September 7. The mandatory minimum reserve requirement was reduced to 17.5%, 11.5%, and 5% for domestic currency deposits with maturities of less than 30 days, 30 to 180 days, and 181 to 367 days, respectively. October L The mandatory minimum reserve requirement was reduced to 17%, 9%, 6%, and 4% for domestic currency deposits with maturities of less than 30 days, 30 to 90 days, 91 to 180 days, and 181 to 367 days, respectively. October 1. The mandatory minimum reserve requirement on foreign currency interest- bearing deposits was increased to 25% from 10% for maturities of less than 180 days and to 19% from 4% for longer maturities. December 7. The ceiling on long or short positions in the foreign currency-denominated operations to be settled position was raised to 150% from 20% of the book value equity less administrative fixed assets. In addition, a ceiling was set on the foreign currency position (after deduction of the operations to be settled position) of 170% of the book value equity less administrative assets. February 28. New regulations allowed private sector peso instruments to count as 1.8 times their face value when measuring a pension fund 's observance of the intraday trading limit of 1.5% of peso-denominated assets. April 25. The maximum limit on investment portfolio held abroad by insurance companies was raised to 30% from 25% of total assets used for covering technical provisions and required capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1024 URUGUAY May 26. Pension funds were made subject to a limit on intraday trading in foreign curren- cies of 0.4% of assets up to a maximum of the equivalent of US$2 million. However, if 0.4% is less than US$ 1 million for a particular fund, that fund was allowed to trade up to that absolute amount daily. Changes During 2004 Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions January 1. The requirement that credit institutions hold 6% of foreign currency assets in dollar-denominated certificates of deposit issued by the CBU was eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN (Position as of March 31, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 15, 2003. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uzbekistan is the Uzbek sum. Effective October 15, 2003, Uzbekistan unified its exchange rate structure. Previously, there were three exchange rates: (1) an over-the-counter (OTC) rate, which was determined at an OTC-based interbank auction, and applied to surrendered portions of proceeds from noncentralized exports, foreign debt-service payments, and payments for licensed imports of goods and services (from June 16, 2003, imports of consumer goods had been effected at the OTC rate instead of the exchange bureau market rate); (2) an official rate used for sta- tistical reporting, accounting, customs valuation, and the conversion of surrendered pro- ceeds from cotton fiber exports, which had been established taking into account the OTC rate, changes in the money supply, and the domestic inflation rate; and (3) the exchange bureau market rate, which applied to individuals' cash transactions and to imports of con- sumer goods (including payments for transport and communication). The Central Bank of Uzbekistan (CBU) fixes the official rate on a weekly basis. Exchange rates are fixed relative to the dollar. Exchange rates for other currencies are determined from their cross rates vis-a-vis the dollar in the international market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of foreign exchange among residents The use of foreign exchange for settlements and payments within Uzbekistan is prohibited, except for operations set forth in the Law on Foreign Exchange Regulation. Payments arrangements No. Administration of control The foreign exchange control authorities consist of the CBU, the MOF, the State Tax Committee, and the State Customs Committee. The Agency for Foreign Economic Rela- tions (AFER) has the following main tasks: regulating foreign economic activities; protect- ing the economic interests of Uzbekistan in these activities; attracting foreign investments and providing for their effective use; developing trade, economic, and financial cooperation 1025 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1026 UZBEKISTAN with foreign states and international institutions; creating conditions to improve the com- petitiveness of the national economy and its integration with the global economic system; and developing export potential. The Ministry of Justice registers enterprises for foreign investment activities. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade Gold is imported and exported on the basis of licenses issued by the AFER. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Effective March 1, 2004, resident and nonresident natural persons are permitted to import and export domestic currency in an amount not exceeding 50 times the minimum wage; larger amounts require CBU approval. CBU permission is required for authorized banks to import or export domestic banknotes; imports and exports by other juridical persons are prohibited. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Residents may export foreign currency up to the equivalent of $2,000 without restriction; amounts in excess of $2,000 up to $5,000 require an authorized bank's permit; and in excess of $5,000 require CBU approval. Nonresidents may export foreign currency up to the amount imported and declared to customs; amounts in excess of this amount require documents from the CBU and an authorized bank confirming the right to export foreign currency. Imports by residents and nonresidents are permitted up to an amount not exceeding 50 times the minimum wage. Resident Accounts All enterprises, regardless of the form of ownership, are allowed to open accounts in do- mestic and foreign currencies at various domestic banks. Individuals are also permitted to open foreign exchange accounts. Resident individuals may transfer abroad up to the equiva- lent of $5,000 from these accounts without restriction. Transfers exceeding this limit re- quire documentary evidence that the payment is for a current international transaction. There is, however, no quantitative limit on these transfers. Yes. The opening and use of accounts abroad by resident natural and juridical persons require CBU approval and are permitted only for the period of stay or activity abroad, after which the accounts must be closed and the balances repatriated. Resident legal entities may open these accounts according to CBU procedures. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted These accounts may be opened by nonresident individuals temporarily in Uzbekistan, diplomatic and other o f f ic ial representatives of foreign states, international organizations, and representative offices of foreign organizations that do not engage in economic or commercial activities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN 1027 Domestic currency accounts The regulations governing foreign exchange accounts apply. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts Local currency accounts of importers may be reserved (with their consent) by banks in anticipation of conversion into foreign exchange. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Imports and Import Payments No. No. On October 1, 2003, the restrictions on advance payments were lifted. Previously, advance payments for imports were allowed up to 15% of the contract value against a counterpart bank guarantee from the correspondent bank, but not more than the equivalent of $100,000; advance payments exceeding $100,000 could be made with the permission of the cabinet of ministers; and advance payments could not be transferred to certain offshore zones or be used to settle services performed in these zones. Effective October 1, 2003, there are no advance import deposit requirements. Previously, importers who wished to acquire foreign exchange under an import contract had to deposit the equivalent amount in sum. This deposit was released only after a certification was made that the goods had actually been imported, but import contracts financed with centralized sources in sum were exempt from this certification requirement. Effective October 1, 2003, the requirement of preregistration of import contracts with the AFER was lifted. However, prior to conversion of funds, the AFER evaluates import con- tracts that are financed by the budget, financed by loans mobilized by or guaranteed by the government, or financed by loans concluded by entities that are more than 50% state- owned. Also effective this date, all contracts must be registered with the foreign exchange control division in the territorial offices of the State Customs Committee (SCC) within seven days after application is made to an authorized bank. Previously, all importers had to present a contract that had been preregistered with the AFER in order to purchase foreign exchange. Importers are entitled at their discretion to engage consulting firms for evaluation of con- tracts and execution of preshipment inspections or to apply to the AFER for evaluation of contracts based on the established procedure without a preshipment inspection. Preship- ment inspection is mandatory for imports of meat and edible meat by-products; dairy prod- ucts; oils, seeds, and fruits; alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages; tobacco products; equip- ment, mechanical devices, and electrical machinery; and equipment imported for the implementation of projects of the Republic of Uzbekistan Investment Program under con- tracts exceeding the equivalent of $10,000 in total value. Documentary letters of credit are used in import settlements. Certain consumer goods require health and quality certification. This certification is per- formed by the state agency Uzstandart. Imports of medicines require import licenses from the Ministry of Health. Imports of weapons, precious metals and stones, uranium, and other radioactive substances require import licenses from the AFER. Imports of foreign movies, videos, and audio recordings require import licenses from the Ministry of Cultural Affairs. Imports of ozone-depleting substances require a permit from the State Environmental Protection Committee. Individu- als importing goods for commercial purposes within Uzbekistan must be registered as indi- vidual entrepreneurs and be authorized to engage in foreign activities and retail trade. Foreign nationals must obtain a permit from the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population to engage in retail trade. A positive list of consumer goods is maintained. Imports of the following are prohibited: printed matter, manuscripts, plates, drawings, photographs, photographic film, negatives, movies, video or audio products, phonograph records, and audio materials aimed at undermining state and social order, violating the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1028 UZBEKISTAN Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs country's territorial integrity, political independence, or state sovereignty, or promoting war, terrorism, violence, national exclusivity, religious hatred, or racism and various forms thereof, and materials with pornographic content. Tenders are held for imports of major food items (e.g., sugar and wheat). The Ministry of Health holds open tenders for imports of medicines needed to provide emergency medical assistance, and for imports of medicines for state needs. Closed tenders are held for imports of vaccines, serums, anesthetics, and narcotics. Effective January 1, 2003, quantitative limits apply to imports of specific consumer goods by natural persons for personal use (previously, the limit was the equivalent of $1,000). The simple average customs tariff rate is 14.6% and the weighted average tariff rate is about 16.6%, based on total import volume, or 2.03%, based on total import volume, ex- cluding duty-free items. Effective January 7, 2004, ad valorem customs duty rates are ap- plied at four levels: zero, 5%, 10%, and 30% (previously, three levels applied: zero, 10%, and 30%) of the customs value. The zero level applies to listed machines, tools, and proc- essing equipment (Cabinet Ministers Resolution No. 4). Of the 1,994 food group subhead- ings of the Foreign Economic Activity Commodity Nomenclature (at the nine-digit level), the zero rate applies to 1,011 subheadings, the 10% rate to 62, and the 30% rate to 750. One hundred subheadings (alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages) are subject to combined duty rates. In addition, an excise tax of between 5% and 90% is levied on 34 product groups. A VAT of 20% is levied on all imported goods, excluding the following: (1) equipment and materials (products and services) imported by legal entities and by nonresidents with bor- rowings and grants from international and foreign governmental financial and economic organizations under treaties or agreements; (2) equipment and materials (products and ser- vices) imported under budget appropriations based on orders from budget-supported or- ganizations; (3) pharmaceuticals and medical products; and (4) computer hardware acces- sories and software. Effective March 12, 2004, this list was expanded to include the following: (1) processing equipment related to newly constructed and renovated enterprises producing consumer goods or to approved projects for building new or refurbishing opera- tional plants, subject to verification by an authorized bank; (2) goods imported by foreign investors as part of their authorized capital investments; (3) pipes for the gas oil sectors; (4) imports of equipment by foreign investors for enterprises being privatized; (5) certain scientific and other equipment required by international agreements or for international technical cooperation; and (6) materials required for producing children's shoes. A levy amounting to 0.2% of customs value is collected for customs clearance of imported goods. A special procedure applies for the collection of customs charges from natural persons. All payments of customs tariffs and fees, VAT, and excise duties are paid in the form of a uni- fied customs charge of 40% for food and 70% for nonfood items. Effective January 1, 2003, this requirement was replaced with quantitative limits. Previously, individuals could bring in goods duty-free for their personal use up to the equivalent of $1,000. On January 1, 2003, the 10% surcharge on imports of nonfood consumer goods by juridical persons was abolished. Effective this same date, a customs fee of 20% is collected on im- ports of nonfood consumer goods produced abroad, with the exception of those produced in countries bordering Uzbekistan. State import monopoly Imports of essential food products aimed at meeting public and state needs are effected by the Uzbeksavdo joint-stock company. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Fifty percent of proceeds in foreign currencies from exports of nontraditional goods and services must be surrendered to authorized banks (prior to the unification of the exchange market, this was effected at the OTC market exchange rate). Microfilms and small enterprises are allowed to retain foreign currency proceeds from exports of their products and services. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN 1029 Proceeds in foreign exchange from centralized exports of cotton fiber must be surrendered in fu ll to the CBU. Small enterprises may export their products and services for cash foreign currency through a bank, with the proceeds credited to their accounts in accordance with the established pro- cedure. Economic entities may export goods and services for convertible currencies without prepayment or the opening of an LC, provided that there is a guarantee from the buyer's bank or an insurance policy protecting export contracts against political and commercial risk. Enterprises are allowed to export their goods on a consignment basis to their trading houses abroad. Yes. Yes. Exports of weapons, precious metals, uranium, and other radioactive materials require licenses from the AFER. Exports of listed animals and plants require licenses from the AFER that are issued on the basis of a permit from the State Environmental Protection Committee. Professional activities abroad by Uzbek citizens require a permit from the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population. Exports of research products require licenses from the State Committee on Science and Technology, and exports of works of art require licenses from the Ministry of Cultural Affairs. Exports of antiques and works of art, livestock and poultry, meat, raw hides, scrap metal, waste of nonferrous metal, silkworm cocoons and raw silk, sugar, vegetable oil, wheat, and milling industry products are prohibited. Exports of crude oil, gas condensate, linen and cotton yarn, and ferrous metals are subject to export licensing within the limits of established quotas. Exports of sugar, vegetable oil, wheat and m i l l ing industry products, meat and poultry, raw hides and skins, powdered milk, antiques, scrap metal, silkworm cocoons, and raw silk are prohibited. Effective August 15, 2003, the procedure of using foreign exchange conversion to collect taxes was eliminated. Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Quantitative limits Indicative Urnits/bona fide test Personal payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Yes. Yes. Per diem limits apply. Yes. Yes. Yes. Nonresident individuals may convert wages received in domestic currency. Wages received in foreign exchange may be remitted on a one-time basis to accounts held abroad, subject to the l im i ts on exports of foreign currency. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1030 UZBEKISTAN Credit card use abroad Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports of services are subject to the same surrender requirements as those applying to proceeds from exports of goods. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The placement of securities of foreign issuers in Uzbekistan is based on annual quotas as- signed by the Cabinet of Ministers, in accordance with the Law on Securities and the Stock Market. These transactions are governed by the statute "On the Procedure for the Admission, Regis- tration, and Placement of Securities of Foreign Issuers on the Territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan and of Uzbek Issuers Abroad." Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Controls apply on all transactions in collective investment securities. Controls on derivatives and other instruments n.r. Controls on credit operations All credit and guarantee operations are subject to controls. Borrowings guaranteed by the government must be registered with the MOF; other borrowings must be registered with the CBU. Controls on direct investment There are no restrictions on attracting foreign investment or on exercising foreign owner- ship. Similarly, foreign investments may be repatriated freely. Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Investors may establish enterprises abroad upon decision of the legal entity's top manage- ment body. The AFER must be notified of the registration of an enterprise abroad. Investors may establish foreign investment enterprises (FIE), which are a form of direct investment, after their registration with the Ministry of Justice and its regional offices. En- terprises may acquire FIE status subject to the following conditions: (1) the authorized capital of the enterprise must be at least the equivalent of $150,000; (2) one of the partici- pants in the enterprise must be a foreign legal entity; and (3) the share of foreign invest- ment must be at least 30% of the enterprise's authorized capital. Controls on liquidation of direct investment The Ministry of Justice and its regional offices monitor the FIEs' compliance with their statutory obligations and the procedures for their registration and liquidation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UZBEKISTAN 1031 Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The procedures for nonresidents' acquisition and sale of real estate are established by the cabinet of ministers. Sale locally by nonresidents The procedures relating to local purchases by nonresidents apply. Controls on personal capital transactions Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions are subject to the limit on the open foreign exchange position. D ifferen t ial treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Reserve requirements apply only to domestic currency-denominated deposits held by enterprises. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. n.r. No. Changes During 2003 Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangement October 15. Uzbekistan accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Articles of Agreement. June 16. Imports of consumer goods were effected at the OTC rate (previously, at the exchange bureau market rate). Imports and import payments January 1. Quantitative limits for imports of specific consumer goods by natural persons for personal use were imposed, replacing a previous limit of the equivalent of $1,000. October 75. The exchange rates were un if ied. January 1. The 10% surcharge on imports of nonfood consumer goods by juridical persons was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1032 UZBEKISTAN January L A 20% customs fee was imposed on nonfood consumer goods produced in countries not bordering Uzbekistan. October L The restrictions on advance payments were lifted. Previously, advance pay- ments were limited to 15% of the contract value up to the equivalent of $100,000. October L The requirement of a 100% advance deposit prior to importation was lifted. October L Prior to conversion of funds, the AFER was authorized to evaluate officially financed contracts, officially mobilized or guaranteed loans, and loans concluded by enti- ties that are more than 50% state-owned. October L The preregistration of import contracts with the AFER was revoked. However, all import contracts were required to be registered with the territorial foreign exchange control division of the SCC within seven days after application is made to an authorized bank. Exports and export proceeds August 15. The procedure of using foreign exchange conversion to collect taxes was abolished. Arrangements for payments and receipts Imports and import payments Changes During 2004 March L Resident and nonresident natural persons were allowed to import and export domestic banknotes up to the equivalent of 50 times the minimum wage without CBU approval. January 7. The number of ad valorem customs rates was increased to four (zero, 5%, 10%, and 30%) from three (zero, 10%, and 30%), with the zero rate being applicable to listed machines, tools, and processing equipment. March 12. The list of goods on which the import VAT does not apply was expanded. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 11, 1982. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Vanuatu is the Vanuatu vatu. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements The external value of the vatu is determined on the basis of an undisclosed transactions- weighted (trade and tourism receipts) basket of currencies of Vanuatu's major trading part- ners. The Reserve Bank of Vanuatu (RBV) buys from and sells to commercial banks U.S. do l lars only; however, it also deals in Australian dollars, euros, Japanese yen, New Zealand dollars, and pounds sterling with other customers. The RBV quotes rates daily for the vatu against the above currencies. Buying and selling rates of the vatu against the currencies in the basket are quoted once a day within margins ranging between 0.25% and 0.30% around the middle rate. No. No. Commercial banks provide forward exchange rate cover facilities. The RBV does not provide these facilities. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.r. Vanuatu participates in the following arrangements: the Fiji/Vanuatu Bilateral Trade Ar- rangement, the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, PACER, PARTA, and PICTA. Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes n.r. n .r. n.r. n.r. n.r. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. n.a. Resident Accounts 1033 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1034 VANUATU Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Yes. Yes. Approval to convert amounts held in domestic currency accounts into foreign currency is delegated to commercial banks. Blocked accounts n.r. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports n.r. n.r. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs For verification purposes, all appropriate documentation must accompany requests for for- eign settlement by commercial banks. The importation of frozen chicken pieces, T-shirts bearing a Vanuatu motif, firearms and ammunition, animals and plants, and transistor and telephone equipment is restricted through import-licensing arrangements. A similar restriction is applied to the importation of rice, sugar, flour, canned fish, and tobacco products. Yes. Bans are in effect for health reasons on imports of animals and animal products from Europe and the United Kingdom, as well as on chicken and poultry products from Victoria and New South Wales, Australia. The RBV has the authority to restrict imports to the equivalent of US$250,000 an individ- ual. The import duty structure consists of eight rates, ranging from zero to 30%, and the 30% rate applies to most goods. Most basic items that were previously duty-free are subject to a 5% duty. Approved goods imported under the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agree- ment, the Fiji/Vanuatu Bilateral Trade Arrangement, and the PARTA, PICTA, and PACER trade agreements are duty-free. These goods require certificates of origin issued to export- ers and importers by the member countries. Effective January 1, 2003, a 35% duty applies to certain imported products under the pro- tected goods category, except for six items covered under the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, to which a 40% duty applies. Additionally, a 40% duty, which is to be decreased by 5% a year, is applied on ice cream, fruit juice, meat, and soap, and duties of VT 26 and VT 315 a liter are applied to fuel and paint, respectively. State import monopoly No. Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds n.r. n.r. n.r. The exportation of logs and flitches has been banned for environmental reasons. Under special circumstances, small parcels of logs may be exported if they cannot be processed by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU 1035 any company in Vanuatu. Any proposal to export logs requires approval of the Council of Ministers. Export permits —the issue of which is coordinated by the Environmental Unit and Forestry Department —are required for rare or endangered species. Effective January 1, 2004, the export of sandalwood logs is banned, and sandalwood must be processed locally prior to exportation. Previously, these exports were allowed with an export permit. For conservation purposes, exports of certain products, such as trochus, green snails, beches-de-mer, mother-of-pearl, aquarium fish, crustaceans, and coconut crabs, are subject to authorization. Exports of copra and cocoa are channeled through the Vanuatu Commodi- ties Marketing Board. Exports of kava may be undertaken by individuals, subject to au- thorization from the Quarantine Office. Exports of artifacts having a special value, either as a result of ceremonial use or because they are more than 10 years old, are subject to au- thorization from the Cultural Center. There are taxes on exports of logs, unworked shells, and wood in the rough, whether or not stripped of bark and sapwood, or roughly squared. Without quotas Export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers n.r. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1036 VANUATU Imports and import payments Changes During 2003 January L A 35% duty was applied to certain imported products under the protected goods category, except for six items covered under the Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement, to which a 40% duty applies. Additionally, a 40% duty was applied on ice cream, fruit juice, meat, and soap, and duties of VT 26 and VT 315 a liter were applied to fuel and paint, respectively. Imports and import payments January L The export of sandalwood logs was banned. Changes During 2004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA (Position as of March 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: July 1, 1976. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela is the Venezuelan bolivar. Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender, but they do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement Prior to mid-January 2003, the bolivar floated with the Central Bank of Venezuela (CBV) regularly intervening. Due to sharp exchange rate pressures beginning January 2003 that led to a substantial exchange rate depreciation and international reserve loss, on February 5, 2003, the authorities pegged the exchange rate of the bolivar to the dollar, fixing the central bank buying and selling rates at Bs 1,596 per $1 and Bs 1,600 per $1, respectively. As a result, the exchange rate arrangement was reclassified to the category conventional pegged arrangement from the category managed floating with no predetermined path for the ex- change rate. The CBV, by joint agreement with the executive branch, may adjust the ex- change rate at any time. On February 7, 2004, the bolivar was re-pegged to Bs 1,915.20 (buying) and Bs 1,920.00 (selling) per $1. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Effective February 5, 2003, the use of foreign exchange among residents is not allowed. There is an arrangement with Malaysia. Payments between the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela and the other LAIA countries may be settled through the accounts maintained with each other at the CBV. Clearing agreements Yes. Administration of control On February 5, 2003, the Foreign Exchange Administration Commission (CADIVI) was established. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Arrears are maintained on interest payments related to external public debt that is under litigation. The CBV participates in, regulates, and executes operations in the gold market. 1037 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1038 REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The export of nonmonetary gold and its alloys in any form (other than jewelry for personal use) requires prior authorization from the CBV. The CBV may authorize the export of gold bars up to 85% of local production; the remainder is supplied to the domestic market. Exports of banknotes are subject to prior authorization from the CBV. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Exports of foreign currency above the equivalent of $5,000 are subject to declaration. Yes. Imports of foreign currency above the equivalent of $ 10,000 are subject to declaration. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held abroad Yes. Accounts in domestic currency held abroad These accounts are not covered by the deposit insurance system. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency No. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts No. No. These apply only in cases of inheritance, preventive judicial measures, and narcotic trafficking activities. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Effective February 5, 2003, the CBV is permitted to sell foreign exchange to importers authorized by the CADIVI, subject to availability. Financing requirements for imports Effective February 5, 2003, authorization by the CADIVI is required. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Effective February 5, 2003, prior authorization by the CADIVI is required for the purchase of foreign exchange. Authorization is granted on a discretionary basis and is subject to evidence of tax compliance and registration requirements. Domiciliation requirements Yes. Import licenses used as exchange licenses Import licenses and other nontariff measures Some products may be subject to restrictive licensing, Some imports are subject to licensing for environmental, health, or security reasons. Import licenses are also required for sugar cane, milk and its derivatives, and various types of oils and fats. Other imports paid for with foreign exchange granted by the CADIVI are subject to certification that the goods are not produced locally or are produced locally in insufficient quantities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA 1039 Positive list Negative list Licenses with quotas There is a list of items for which the provision of foreign exchange is authorized. Imports of military arms must be authorized by the Defense Ministry. Imports of nonmilitary weap- ons must be authorized by the Ministry of Domestic Affa irs and Justice. The importation of used motor vehicles is prohibited, except for hearses, prison vans, and ambulances. A number of agricultural products (142 tariff lines, or 2.12% of total lines) are subject to tariff quotas. Other nontariff measures There are m in imum prices for certain imports. Import taxes and/or tariffs There are four basic ad valorem tariff rates on manufactured goods (5%, 10%, 15%, and 20%), except for motor vehicles, which are subject to a special regime under the Andean Community. The tariffs on imported components for vehicles are 35% for passenger cars; 15% for cargo and commercial vehicles, except for vehicles under 4,500 kg, such as pickup trucks, for which the rate is 35%; and 3% for vehicle components. The industrial free zone of Paraguana and the free port of Margarita Island enjoy a special customs regime that in- cludes exemptions from customs tariffs. There are multiple trade agreements, ranging from agreements with partial coverage to free trade agreements and integration agreements on free trade. There is a customs hand l ing fee of 1%. State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Effective February 5, 2003, all foreign exchange earnings from exports, including export proceeds of the state petroleum company, must be surrendered to the CBV. Exporters may retain 10% of their export proceeds for export-related expenses. This does not apply to companies subject to the Hydrocarbon Law, for which other facilities are in place. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Authorization is granted on a discretionary basis and is subject to evidence of tax compli- ance, social security payments, and registration requirements. Guarantees Domiciliation Yes. Domiciliation is required for exports meeting certain f inanc ing criteria. Preshipment inspection Yes. Other Export licenses Export taxes An export declaration is required. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1040 REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA Payments for travel Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. There are limits for expenses related to study abroad and medical expenses. Yes. Yes. Yes. Use of credit cards abroad requires prior approval. Effective March 1, 2004, the use of credit»cards abroad is subject to a limit of the equiva- lent of $2,000 a person a year. Yes. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Effective February 5, 2003, the surrender of all foreign exchange proceeds to the central bank through authorized dealers is mandatory. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital transactions Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Effective February 5, 2003, access to foreign exchange for capital transactions is subject to authorization by the CADIVI. Foreign investors are allowed to purchase corporate stocks on the Caracas Stock Exchange but must inform the Superintendency of Foreign Investment (SIEX) of such purchases at the end of each calendar year. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Authorization from the Comision Nacional de Valores (CNV) is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Authorization from the CNV is required. Bonds or other debt securities Effective February 5, 2003, transactions involving government bonds denominated in foreign currency in the secondary domestic market have been suspended. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Authorization from the CNV is required. Sale or issue abroad by residents Authorization from the CNV is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA 1041 On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Authorization from the CNV is required. Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are some regulations for market participants. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Mass media, communications, newspapers in Spanish, and professional services are re- served for national ownership. New investments do not require prior authorization from the SIEX, but must be registered with the SIEX, and approval is automatically granted if the new investment is consistent with national legislation. Foreign enterprises may establish subsidiaries in the Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela without prior authorization as long as they are consistent with the commercial code. The SIEX must, however, be notified within 60 working days about newly established subsidiaries. Investment in the petroleum and iron sectors is subject to specific regulations. Owners of direct investments have the right to reexport the proceeds of liquidation; how- ever, the SIEX checks the performance of the commitments of foreign investors in accor- dance with national legislation. Under the debt-equity program, the registration of proceeds is allowed up to five years after the date of the last debt conversion. Controls on real estate transactions No. Controls on personal capital transactions Banks must report to the Superintendency of Banks on a monthly basis any transfer above $10,000, or its equivalent, to or from another country. Loans To residents from nonresidents These transactions are controlled when denominated in foreign currency. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies To residents from nonresidents These transactions are controlled when denominated in foreign currency. Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants These transactions are controlled when denominated in foreign currency. Transfer into the country by immigrants Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions These transactions are controlled when denominated in foreign currency. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Effective February 5, 2003, transactions involving government bonds denominated in for- eign currency in the secondary domestic market are suspended. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits Deposit accounts in foreign exchange are not subject to the deposit insurance policy. A reserve requirement of 15% applies to deposits, obligations, and debit operations irre- spective of the holder's residency status. Effective July 31, 2003, the maximum open foreign exchange positions of commercial and universal banks are limited to 15% (previously, 12%) of their capital funds. For other fi- nancial institutions, the limit is 5% of their respective capital funds. On resident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1042 REPUBLICA BOLIVARIANA DE VENEZUELA Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts February 5. The authorities pegged the exchange rate of the bolivar to the dollar at the rates of Bs 1,596 (buying) and Bs 1,600 (selling) per $1. As a result, the exchange rate arrange- ment was reclassified to the category conventional pegged arrangement from the category managed floating with no preannounced path for the exchange rate. February 5. The use of foreign exchange among residents was prohibited. February 5. The Foreign Exchange Administration Commission (CADIVI) was established. Imports and import payments February 5. Prior authorization by the CADIVI was required for purchases of foreign exchange. Exports and export proceeds February 5. Authorization by the CADIVI was required for f inanc ing imports. February 5. The CBV was permitted to sell foreign exchange to importers authorized by the CADIVI, subject to availability. February 5. All foreign exchange earnings from exports, including export proceeds of the state petroleum company, were required to be surrendered to the CBV, and exporters were allowed to retain 10% of the proceeds for export-related expenses. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers February 5. The surrender of all foreign exchange proceeds to the BCV was made mandatory. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments February 5. Transactions involving government bonds denominated in foreign currency in the secondary domestic market were suspended. February 5. Access to foreign currency for capital transactions became subject to authori- zation by the CADIVI. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions February 5. Transactions involving government bonds denominated in foreign currency in the secondary domestic market were suspended. July 31. The max imum open foreign exchange position of commercial and universal banks was increased to 15% from 12% of their capital funds. Changes During 2004 Exchange arrangement February 7. The bolivar was re-pegged at Bs 1,915.20 (buying) and Bs 1,920 (selling) p e r $ l. Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers March L Payments for credit card charges abroad were made subject to a limit of the equivalent of $2,000 a person a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM (Position as of January 31, 2004) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Vietnam is the Vietnamese dong. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market With respect to the dollar, the State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) quotes the daily average exchange rate in the interbank market dur ing the previous business day as the current interbank market rate; however, banks may not quote rates that vary by more than ±0.25% from the rate quoted by the SBV. With respect to other currencies, banks and financial institutions may set their exchange rates at their discretion. No. No. The SBV permits commercial banks and some economic entities to enter into forward and swap transactions with maturities of 7 to 180 days. For transactions involving dollars, the rate is set by the commercial banks within ranges, i.e., the percentage depreciation of the spot exchange rate is set at the time of the signing of the formal exchange contract and may vary according to the maturity of the transaction. Economic entities may enter into forward and swap transactions with commercial banks. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents may make payments in foreign currency for certain transactions only. Vietnam maintains bilateral payments arrangements with Belarus, China, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Russia. Administration of control Exchange control is administered by the SBV. International security restrictions No. 1043 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1044 VIETNAM Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Effective June 11, 2003, restrictions on exports and imports of gold were lifted. Previously, all imports and exports of gold were controlled and licensed by the SBV, and exports and imports of more than three kilograms of gold for jewelry required a license. Individuals are required to declare amounts in excess of the amount brought into Vietnam or D 5 million, whichever is smaller. Individuals must obtain the permission of the SBV to take out any excess over the amount brought into Vietnam or the equivalent of $3,000. However, specific provisions apply for transferring or carrying foreign exchange above this limit for certain invisible transactions and current transfers. For individuals, amounts in excess of D 5 million must be declared upon entering Vietnam. For individuals, amounts in excess of $3,000 or its equivalent must be declared to customs. For f inanc ial institutions, SBV permission is required. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Resident organizations with foreign currency revenue originating from current transactions, capital transactions, or other stated sources are entitled to open and maintain foreign cur- rency accounts at authorized banks for receiving and making payments, remittances, and transfers in foreign exchange as specified by the SBV. Resident private individuals who receive foreign currency transfers from abroad through banks or who bring foreign currencies into Vietnam and have a bordergate customs certifi- cation, together with other legal sources of foreign currencies, are entitled to open and maintain foreign currency accounts at licensed banks. These accounts may be used for (1) receiving transfers from abroad for exports of goods and services or for assistance funds allowed by law; (2) receiving cash from abroad (certified by bordergate customs offices); (3) effecting transfers in foreign currency or account transfers for salaries, bonuses, dona- tions, inheritances, and allowances in accordance with appropriate regulations; and (4) receiving other sources of foreign currency permitted by the SBV. The accounts may be used for (1) making payments to organizations or individuals abroad or in Vietnam that are allowed to receive foreign exchange for goods and services provided to organizations and individuals in Vietnam who are allowed to invoice in foreign currency for certain goods provided and services rendered; (2) remitting foreign currency abroad for certain personal purposes; (3) selling foreign currency to credit institutions that are allowed to conduct for- eign exchange activities; (4) withdrawing foreign currency in cash for savings and other stated purposes; (5) investing in foreign currency-denominated securities; and (6) other stated purposes as specified by the SBV. Depositors are entitled to earn interest in foreign currencies and to withdraw principal and interest in foreign currencies. Resident enterprises operating in specified sectors that contract with foreign organizations may open and use foreign currency accounts overseas, subject to the submission of various documents to and obtaining the approval of the SBV, to (1) facilitate the conduct of current overseas transactions; (2) provide deposit security for international bid contracts; (3) con- duct clearing transactions; and (4) meet the requirements of treaties, agreements, or com- mitments signed with foreign countries, foreign-financed enterprises operating in accor- dance with the Foreign Investment Law of Vietnam, and certain credit institutions. Other organizations not engaged in the above-mentioned activities but wishing to open and use an overseas foreign currency account must obtain the approval of the prime minister or the SBV. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM 1045 Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. No. Yes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Nonresident organizations operating in Vietnam and nonresident organizations or individu- als operating abroad that transfer foreign currency into the country upon entering Vietnam and hold the appropriate bordergate certification, or that carry other legal sources of foreign currency into Vietnam, are entitled to open and maintain foreign currency accounts at li- censed banks. Holders of nonresident foreign currency accounts are permitted to make withdrawals in either foreign currency or dong. Domestic currency accounts Nonresidents who have domestic currency converted from foreign currency and other legal income may open these accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Blocked accounts Accounts may be blocked only under the order of authorized Vietnamese agencies. Foreign exchange budget The budget is indicative only and not binding. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Priorities are assigned to certain types of imports. Highest priority is given to critical im- ports, such, as petroleum products and fertilizer. Lowest priority is given to imports of goods that compete with domestically produced goods and imports of other consumer goods. Importers are required to submit to commercial banks relevant documents (such as contracts and licenses) for import payments. Domestic firms are allowed to import any goods that are in line with commercial and cor- porate laws. Trading by foreign-owned firms may be carried out only in accordance with the registered business activity of the enterprise. Imports of certain products are controlled by other ministries for health, safety, and moral purposes. Prohibited imports are weapons, ammunition, explosives, and other military equipment; nonmedical drugs and toxic chemicals; reactionary and/or pornographic materials; fire- works and children's toys that detrimentally influence personality, education, social order, or safety; cigarettes (excluding limited quantities imported during personal travel); most used consumer goods; most used vehicles, including bicycles and motorcycles, and used vehicle parts; and some types of passenger vehicles. All import quotas are formally approved by the government. The Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI), in coordination with the Ministry of Trade (MOT), may also impose ad hoc temporary quantity controls. Imports of certain steel products, cement, fertilizer, petro- leum products, and sugar are subject to quantitative controls. In addition, imports of motor- cycles and some types of cars with fewer than 16 seats require an import license from the MOT. Other nontariff measures A broad range of additional nontariff measures exists. Import taxes and/or tariffs There are 15 tariff rates, ranging up to 50%. Most imports of machinery, equipment, and medicine are exempt from tariffs. Certain imports of foreign enterprises that are incorporated under the Law on Foreign Investment are also exempt from tariffs. Tariff rates of 50% to 60% are applied to imports of garments and footwear, soft drinks, cosmetics, and automobiles. Quantitative restrictions apply to alcohol, cement, fertilizer, glass, granite and ceramic tiles, automobiles, motorcycles, paper, petroleum products, steel, sugar, and vegetable oil. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1046 VIETNAM State import monopoly No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All receipts originating from current transactions by resident entities must be repatriated immediately. On April 17, 2003, the surrender requirement was reduced to zero from 30% (Decision No. 46/2003/QD-TTG). Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Other export taxes The following exports are prohibited: weapons, ammunition, explosives, and other military equipment; antiques; nonmedical drugs and toxic chemicals; timber and timber products from natural forests; wild and/or rare native animals; and certain plants. State-owned firms with an annual export turnover of more than the equivalent of $5 million may obtain permanent direct foreign trading rights, while those with an annual export turn- over in the range of $2 million to $5 million may obtain temporary direct foreign trading rights. Exports of rice, textiles, and garments in quota-regulated markets are subject to ad hoc quotas. Yes. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Investment-related payments Prior approval Payments for invisibles related to authorized imports are not restricted. Foreign enterprises are allowed to buy foreign currency from commercial banks to pay for their current and other permitted transactions. Effective January 1, 2004, the discriminatory profit remittance tax was abolished. Previ- ously, profit and dividend remittances were subject to a tax of 3%-7%, depending on the capital contribution of the foreign investor. Indicative limits/bona fide test Information is not available on indicative limits for interest payments. Payments for travel Prior approval Permission from the SBV or an authorized bank is required for transactions involving amounts exceeding the equivalent of $3,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Permission from the SBV or an authorized bank is required for transactions involving amounts exceeding the equivalent of $3,000. Permission from the SBV or an authorized bank is required for transactions involving amounts exceeding the equivalent of $3,000. Quantitative limits Certain transactions are subject to limits. Other payments Prior approval Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIETNAM 1047 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All proceeds originating from current transactions by resident entities must be repatriated immediately. On April 17, 2003, the surrender requirement was reduced to zero from 30% (Decision No. 46/2003/QD-TTG). Restrictions on use of funds Restrictions are the same as those applied to other foreign exchange holdings. Capital Transactions Controls on capital transactions Yes. Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls apply on all transactions in capital and money market instruments and in collective investment securities. On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign individuals and organizations are allowed, in aggregate, to hold up to 30% of an issuer's listed current shares. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign individuals and organizations are allowed to hold an unlimited amount of bonds issued in the Vietnam securities market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue abroad by residents SBV approval is required. On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents SBV approval is required. Purchase abroad by residents SBV approval is required. Controls on credit operations Enterprises are subject to annual overall external borrowing ceilings and the fu lf i l lment of certain other conditions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1048 VIETNAM Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents For short-term credit, borrowing enterprises must observe the required conditions of the SBV. For medium- and long-term credit, enterprises may sign contracts and then register the borrowing and repayment schedules with the SBV before disbursement, based on con- ditions required by the SBV. Borrowing contracts of state-owned enterprises must be ap- proved by the SBV. Borrowing enterprises must report the borrowing and repayment schedules to the SBV. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents The regulations governing commercial credits apply. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents SBV approval is required for state-owned enterprises to borrow abroad under guarantees. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Outward direct investment requires an MPI permit. Enterprises engaged in these investments must open an account with a bank with foreign exchange authorization and must register such accounts with the SBV. All related transactions must go through these accounts. The authority to grant foreign investment licenses is entrusted to the MPI for projects over $1 million or its equivalent; for projects under $1 million, authority is granted by the pro- vincial authorities concerned. The forms of foreign investment are regulated by the relevant investment laws. Foreign enterprises and foreign partners are required to open specific foreign currency accounts at authorized banks for all capital transactions. Controls on liquidation of direct investment n.a. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Land may not be owned by foreign investors and must be leased from the state. Controls on personal capital transactions Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants The maximum amounts allowed for grants and inheritances are the equivalents of $5,000 a year and $ 10,000 a year (or 20% of the total amount inherited if the amount exceeds $50,000), respectively. Yes. Yes. Yes. An emigrant may transfer or physically export foreign currency not exceeding $10,000 or the equivalent a year. For amounts exceeding $50,000, the limit is 20% of the total transfer abroad. Transfer into the country by immigrants Yes. Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Registration with the SBV is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Maintenance of accounts abroad SBV approval is required. VIETNAM 1049 Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Registration with the SBV is required. Effective August 22, 2003, authorized credit organizations may extend loans to residents for the following purposes only: (1) borrowing to pay for imports of goods and services; (2) investment projects approved by the prime minister; (3) export projects involving manufacturing or trade; (4) borrowing under the terms of export documents; (5) borrowing to repay external loans in advance that have been guaranteed by domestic credit institutions and that meet certain criteria; (6) borrowing by temporary guest workers from foreign countries as regulated by the SBV; and (7) short-term borrowing for manufacturing or other businesses that do not earn foreign exchange proceeds. Effective June 1, 2003, for most banks, reserve requirements of 4% and 2% apply to depos- its in foreign and domestic currency, respectively, with maturity of less than 12 months. Previously, the reserve requirements were un if ied at 5%. For deposits with maturity of 12 to 24 months, the reserve requirements for deposits in foreign and domestic currency are unified at 1%. Credit institutions' lending rates must not exceed a base rate periodically announced by the SBV, plus margins specified by the SBV. The aggregate open position limit is 30% but the SBV may exempt banks from this limit in special circumstances. Forward and swap positions are included in the calculation of open position limits. These regulations apply to all authorized banks. Institutional investors are not allowed to purchase or hold these instruments. These transactions are not allowed. To sell or purchase listed securities at the stock exchange center, foreign organizations and individuals are required to open a securities trading account denominated in domestic cur- rency and a securities custody account at a foreign custody agent. All payments for and receipts from securities transactions must be effected through these accounts. Foreign or- ganizations and individuals may transfer their investment capital abroad only after a year from the date these accounts were opened. Changes During 2003 Arrangements for payments and receipts June 11. The restrictions on trading in gold were lifted. Previously, all imports and exports of gold were controlled and licensed by the central bank, and trading in more than three kilograms of gold for jewelry required a license. Exports and export proceeds April 17. The foreign exchange surrender requirement was reduced to zero from 30% (Decision No. 46/2003/QD-TTG). Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers April 17. The foreign exchange surrender requirement was reduced to zero from 30% (Decision No. 46/2003/QD-TTG). Capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions June 1. The reserve requirements on foreign and domestic currency deposits were reduced to 4% from 5% and to 2% from 5%, respectively. August 22. Authorized credit organizations were allowed to extend loans to residents for the following purposes only: (1) borrowing to pay for imports of goods and services; (2) investment projects approved by the prime minister; (3) export projects involving manufacturing or trade; (4) borrowing under the terms of export documents; (5) borrowing ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1050 VIETNAM to repay external loans in advance that have been guaranteed by domestic credit institutions and that meet certain criteria; (6) borrowing by temporary guest workers from foreign countries as regulated by the SBV; and (7) short-term borrowing by manufacturers or businesses that do not earn foreign exchange proceeds. Changes During 2004 Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers January 1. The discriminatory profit remittance tax was abolished. Previously, remittances were subject to a tax of 3%-7%. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 10, 1996. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of the Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni rial. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independently floating The exchange rate of the rial is determined by supply and demand in the foreign exchange market. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Administration of control Yes. No. Exchange control authority is vested with the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY). International security restrictions Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions The funds of listed individuals and organizations associated with terrorism have been frozen. These measures were taken in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Yes. Yes. No. Domestic currency Exports of rial banknotes are prohibited. On imports Domestic currency Imports of rial banknotes are prohibited. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Yes. Resident Accounts 1051 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1052 Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list REPUBLIC OF YEMEN Nonresident Accounts Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. Tariff rates range from 5% to 25%. Some imports are banned for security, health, and religious reasons. Imports of used machinery and coffee are prohibited, and imports of certain fruits and vegetables are subject to seasonal tariff rates. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs Currently, there are four tariff rates: 5%, 10%, 15%, and 25%. State import monopoly Imports of petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Exports are registered for statistical purposes. Exports to Israel are prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 1053 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits No. No. Yes. No. No. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Short-term foreign loans by the public sector are prohibited. Approval by the Council of Ministers is required for contracting medium- and long-term foreign loans by the public sector. Yes. No. Liquidation of direct investments is free for approved and registered projects. Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions No. No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Foreign exchange deposits held at the CBY are not remunerated. Commercial and specialized banks are required to observe prudential regulations regarding currency exposure and to report their positions. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2003 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position as of December 31, 2003) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: April 19,2002. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Zambia is the Zambian kwacha. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Effective July 23, 2003, the official foreign exchange rate is determined in the interbank market. The market relies on primary dealers as market makers to provide two-way bid/offer prices during business hours with the spread based on market fundamentals and with trades quoted in lots of $50,000. All foreign currency trades are required to pass through the interbank market. The Bank of Zambia (BOZ) intervenes in the market primar- ily through transactions with the primary dealers but may also transact with other banks. The interbank rates provide the basis for determining the BOZ exchange rates: the BOZ's buying rate is the simple average of the primary dealers' low bid rates while the BOZ's selling rate is the simple average of the primary dealers' high offer rates. Prior to July 23, 2003, the official exchange rate was determined in the auction market and the spread between the BOZ's buying and selling rates was fixed at 1.6%, but could be adjusted within a range of l%-2%. On the basis of the bids and offers received, as well as other budgetary considerations (such as government and BOZ requirements, donor assis- tance funds, and export earnings), the BOZ determined the amount of foreign exchange to be sold to or purchased from the market through the dealing window. Suppliers wishing to sell foreign currency amounts in excess of the equivalent of $100,000 a week in the foreign exchange market were required to do so through the BOZ's dealing window. Commercial banks were allocated foreign exchange at the marginal rate struck at the BOZ auction on behalf of suppliers; this rate was also the BOZ's buying rate. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Payments arrangements Regional arrangements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts n.a. Zambia is a member of COMES A, the COMES A Free Trade Agreement, RIFF, and the SADC. Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Official Private No. No. Yes. Yes. 1054 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 1055 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require approval from the Ministry of Mines. Amounts exceeding the equivalent of $5,000 must be declared for statistical purposes. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Resident Accounts Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Yes. Yes. n.a. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments No. No. Yes. Trade in petroleum products requires a license. The license is granted by the Energy Regu- lation Board to all oil-marketing companies that undertake to adhere to specific guidelines pertaining to fuel up l ift and import, pricing, and storage. Licenses for statistical purposes are also required, but they are granted automatically by commercial banks. Personal and household effects, trade samples, diplomatic shipments, and vehicles brought in temporar- ily are exempted from this requirement. The Ministry of Commerce, Trade, and Industry is responsible for trade arrangements. Negative list Restrictions apply on imports of firearms, ammunition, and ivory. Import taxes and/or tariffs MFN tariff rates range from zero to 25%. In addition, there is a 5% import declaration fee. A number of products are subject to specific rates. Imports from COMES A countries are subject to a tariff equivalent to 60% of the MFN tariff. Some imports are exempt under the Investment Act. Imports from signatories of the COMES A Free Trade Agreement are tax exempt. State import monopoly No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1056 ZAMBIA Repatriation requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. All exports must be declared on the prescribed export declaration form for statistical purposes. Export declarations are required for most goods (mainly for statistical purposes), and they are administered routinely by commercial banks under authority delegated by the Ministry of Commerce, Trade, and Industry. Restrictions apply on exports of firearms, ammunition, and ivory. White maize and fertilizers may be subject to a quota if domestic supply is short. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers All payments for invisibles, except external debt-service payments, may be effected through banks and foreign exchange bureaus without the prior approval of the BOZ, provided that no taxes are due. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations No. No. No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions Commercial credits All borrowing must be registered with the BOZ for statistical purposes. Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. No. No. No. Borrowing abroad Information on borrowing abroad must be submitted to the BOZ for statistical purposes. Open foreign exchange position limits The overnight overall foreign exchange and the single currency exposure limits are 15% and 10% of regulatory capital, respectively. The intraday overall foreign exchange and the single currency exposure limits may be maintained within prudential limits as established in a written policy statement by the bank's or financial institution's board of directors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 1057 However, these exposure limits may not exceed 30% and 20%, respectively, of regulatory capital. On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. Yes. No. No. Changes During 2003 Exchange arrangement July 23. The foreign exchange interbank market came into operation. Previously, purchases and sales of foreign exchange were made in the auction market or through the BOZ's dealing window. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position as of February 29, 2004) Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 5, 1995. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe dollar. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Conventional pegged arrangement The exchange rate of the Zimbabwe dollar is pegged de facto to the U.S. dollar at the rate of Z$55 per US$1. This rate applies to official transactions. On March 1, 2003, the mid-rate for private transactions of the Zimbabwe dollar to the U.S. dollar was pegged at Z$824 per US$1. Transactions subject to these two rates are effected through a foreign exchange pool operated by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ). On that same date, exports of gold and tobacco ceased to be eligible for special depreciated exchange rates. On January 19, 2004, the rate of Z$55 per US$1 was eliminated; foreign exchange transactions of the government and NOCZIM—the national oil company—are now effected at the Z$824 per US$1 rate. All other transactions are effected through a tender system, which operates twice a week. Under this system, authorized dealers submit detailed bids on behalf of their customers. An RBZ committee then examines the bids and eliminates those that are for nonpriority pur- poses. Successful bidders are allocated foreign exchange on the basis of their bids and pay the amount bid. The tender rate is calculated as the weighted average of the prices offered to the bidders. Effective January 17, 2004, the RBZ purchases three-quarters of the foreign exchange from the tobacco auction at the prevailing trader rate; the remaining quarter is purchased at the Z$824 per US$1 rate. Only banks are licensed to deal in foreign exchange with the public. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements freely All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in any of the 17 currencies convertible through authorized dealers, with the exception of payments otherwise specified or effected through nonresident accounts. Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Residents may convert domestic currency only to meet approved current account payments. Transactions in capital and money market instruments RBZ approval is required for residents to convert domestic currency in order to make capital payments. Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations Use of foreign exchange among residents Yes. Yes. Residents are not allowed to transact in foreign exchange, 1058 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 1059 Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control There are arrangements with Botswana, Libya, Malawi, Malaysia, Namibia, and South Africa. Zimbabwe is a member of RIFF. Zimbabwe is a member of the COMES A clearinghouse. Exchange control is administered by the RBZ under powers delegated to it by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED). International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Private Yes. Yes. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency No person, either as principal or agent, may deal in or possess gold unless that person is (1) the holder of a license or permit; (2) the holder or distributor of a registered mining location from which gold is being produced; or (3) the employee or agent of any of the persons mentioned in (1) and (2) above and authorized by an employer or principal to deal in or possess gold that is already in the lawful possession of the employer or principal. A mining commissioner may issue to any person a permit authorizing the acquisition, posses- sion, or disposal of any gold, provided the quantity does not exceed one troy ounce. In all other cases, permission may be issued by the Secretary for Mines only. Under the terms of the Gold Trade Act, three types of licenses may be issued: a gold deal- ing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assaying license. All gold obtained from a registered mining location must be lodged with the holder of its gold dealing license no later than the tenth day of every month unless specific permission has been granted by the mining commissioner or the appropriate minister. Any person intending to smelt gold or any article containing gold must first obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Secondhand Goods Act, which authorizes the possession of smelting equipment. The exportation of gold in unmanufactured form is controlled and licensed by the Ministry of Mines; these controls do not apply to the RBZ. No export licenses for gold are issued. The importation of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act, which requires those intending to import gold into Zimbabwe to meet certain requirements. Resident travelers may take out up to Z$ 100,000. Residents may take out up to the equivalent of US$1,000 a day for business travel and up to US$2,500 a year for holiday travel. Nonresident travelers may take out the traveler's checks they brought in, less the amount they sold to authorized dealers. Upon departure, nonresident travelers may reconvert unspent Zimbabwean currency into foreign currencies on presentation of exchange certificates. Nonresident travelers may bring in up to Z$50,000. Foreign currency and traveler's checks may be imported without restriction but may be sold or exchanged through authorized dealers only. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1060 ZIMBABWE Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Resident individuals may open foreign currency accounts (FCAs) in one of the denomi- nated currencies in local branches of authorized dealers. Funds withdrawn from FCAs and converted into local currency may not be redeposited in the account, except in the case of the amount of the initial investment and income or capital gains from investments in listed companies on the stock exchange or money market accounts. Gold producers and tobacco farmers may maintain FCAs, which are credited with 20% of their export receipts in foreign currencies and which they may use to purchase imports. Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency A resident may only convert funds in a domestic account into foreign currency when effecting approved current transactions. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts These accounts may be credited with foreign currencies, with payments from other non- resident accounts, or with payments by residents that would be eligible for transfer outside Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be debited for payments to residents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for payments abroad. Nonresident individuals may open foreign currency accounts in one of the denominated currencies in local branches of author- ized dealers. Funds in these accounts are traded at market-determined exchange rates. Funds withdrawn from these accounts and converted into local currency, however, may not be redeposited in the account, except in the case of the initial investment, and income or capital gains from investments in the stock exchange. Yes. Yes. Nonresidents may convert domestic currency accounts into foreign currency only when emigrating and taking out their surplus earnings. Yes. Former residents residing outside Zimbabwe may maintain emigrants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets held in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and from these accounts are subject to various exchange restrictions. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payment requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Effective May 20, 2003, advance payments for imports of up to the equivalent of US$100,000 (previously, US$50,000) are allowed. Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, provided the necessary documentation is submitted to and approved by the RBZ. Payments for imports may not be made in domestic currency through a local nonresident account. Effective May 20, 2003, imports of finished goods and raw materials for processing must be effected within 14 and 30 days after payment, respectively (previously, 90 days). Approval is required for longer periods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 1061 Domiciliation requirements Yes. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly There is a priority list for foreign currency payments for which foreign exchange may be provided in the official market. The negative list for imports includes, in addition to items restricted for health or security reasons, nonmonetary gold, pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, and some jewelry items. Yes. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied to certain agricultural products. Imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Lands and Agriculture. The customs duty regime consists mainly of ad valorem duties, which range up to a maxi- mum of 70% for luxuries, with a surtax of 10% on finished goods and specific duties on a number of products. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax (between 12.5% and 20%) equivalent to the sales tax imposed on goods sold domestically. Government imports and capital goods for statutory bodies are exempt from customs duties. The maximum tariff rate is 100% and applies to 18 tariff items. Effective February 28, 2004, customs duty valuation is based on the tender rate. Maize may be imported only by the Grain Marketing Board or by others with the permis- sion of the Board. Petroleum is imported by the National Oil Company, as well as by pri- vate companies under a license issued by the Ministry of Energy. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements The surrender requirement for export proceeds is 50%. Effective December 24, 2003, if surrender takes place within 30 days, exporters may retain 70% in an account at the RBZ and must surrender the remaining 5% at the tender rate. For surrender taking place within 31-60 and 61-90 days, exporters may retain 65% and 55%, respectively, while surrender- ing 10% and 20%, respectively, at the tender rate. Receipts beyond 90 days must be surren- dered entirely unless permission is received from the RBZ. One-half of this (i.e., 25%) is to be surrendered at the ZS824 per US$1 rate. Effective January 19, 2004, corporate FCA holders (including individuals, embassies, international organizations, nonresident con- trolled companies, and export processing zone companies that are wholly financed from abroad) may use foreign exchange earnings for up to 21 days (previously, 60 days) for purposes specified on a priority list. After this period, the remaining foreign exchange is sold in the tender market; previously, the RBZ bought the foreign exchange from exporters and sold the proceeds to authorized dealers to finance market requirements. All export pro- ceeds from tobacco must be sold to the RBZ. Fifty percent of export receipts for gold are paid by the RBZ to gold producers in converti- ble currency, which they may place in FCAs. Effective July 1, 2003, all exporters were granted a waiver on the 50% surrender require- ment applicable to the incremental portion of their export, calculated on a quarterly basis. Goods may not be exported without permission unless the customs authorities are satisfied that payment has been received in an approved manner or will be received within three months of the date of shipment (or a longer period if permitted by the RBZ). Payments for exports must be received in foreign currency transferred into Zimbabwe through the banking system, except when there are special arrangements. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1062 Domiciliation Export licenses Without quotas ZIMBABWE Yes. Export licenses are required for the following: (1) any ore, concentrate, or other manufac- tured product of chrome, copper, lithium, nickel, tin, or tungsten; (2) petroleum products; (3) jute and hessian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carrying liquids or semiliquids; (5) bitumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) wild animals and wild animal products; (7) certain wood products; (8) ammonium nitrate; and (9) armaments. Export-licensing requirements are imposed for reasons of health and social welfare, as well as to ensure an adequate domestic supply of essential products. Export permits are required from the Ministry of Lands and Agriculture for some basic agricultural commodities, including maize, oilseeds, cheese, milk, seeds, potatoes, citrus fruits, apples, bananas, and tomatoes. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports and, within certain limits, for other purposes is provided by commercial banks under delegated authority; prior approval of the RBZ is required. Applications for foreign exchange exceeding the limits established for commercial banks are approved by the RBZ, which deals with each case on its merits. Required for payment of commissions. The limits for freight and insurance are 30% of f.o.b. value of goods transported, but for goods that are of exceptional volume in relation to value, up to 80% of the f.o.b. value may be approved. For commission, the following limits apply: (1) confirming commission —up to 2.5% of c.i.f. value; (2) buying commission—up to 5% of f.o.b. value; (3) foreign travel agents—up to 10% of sales; and (4) selling commission —up to 7.5% of f.o.b. value. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits All investment-related transfers are subject to prior RBZ approval. Specific applications are submitted to authorized dealers for approval without reference to the RBZ. A corporation may be authorized to remit by way of dividends to foreign shareholders, including dividends due to former residents of Zimbabwe, up to 100% of the corporation's net after-tax profits, provided that an application for the remittance of a dividend is submit- ted to an authorized dealer within 12 months from the end of the financial year in respect of which the dividend is payable. Yes. Yes. The basic foreign exchange allowance for nonbusiness travel is the equivalent of US$2,500 a year a person regardless of age, and that for business travel is the equivalent of US$1,000 a day. In practice, owing to the foreign exchange shortage, foreign exchange is not readily made available for foreign travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Remittance of pensions of former residents is guaranteed under the constitution. With RBZ approval, foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secon- dary school level for certain diploma and degree courses. For medical treatment, the limit is the equivalent of US$20,000 a trip for the patient and one companion. A travel allowance up to the equivalent of US$250 a person a day may be allowed. For studies abroad, the limit is the equivalent of US$50,000 a year, and the annual limit is the equivalent of US$2,000 for alimony and child support payments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 1063 Indicative limits/bona fide test Applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the RBZ for approval. Foreign workers' wages Expatriate workers may remit their monthly salaries, subject to RBZ approval. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Amounts of up to one-third of gross salary may be remitted. Yes. Yes. Credit cards may be used abroad for holiday travel, up to the equivalent of US$2,500, and for business travel, up to the limits set for those transactions. Yes. Yes. The annual limit for subscriptions for a company is the equivalent of US$20,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Receipts from invisibles must be repatriated through the banking system and sold to author- ized banks within 30 days after being credited to an FCA. The surrender requirement gov- erning export proceeds also applies to all invisible transactions. Effective January 1, 2004, receipts from tourists and sales by international organizations, embassies, and individuals are to be surrendered to the RBZ at the auction rate. Effective January 19, 2004, foreign exchange receipts from trade finance facilities and other capital inflows are to be surrendered to the RBZ at the auction rate. Restrictions on use of funds The use of these funds is limited to a specified priority list. Controls on capital transactions Inward transfers of capital through normal banking channels are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investors are permitted to participate in the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange (ZSE) us- ing currency received in Zimbabwe through normal banking channels. The initial invest- ment plus any capital gains and dividend income may be remitted without restriction. For- eign investors may also subscribe for up to 35% of primary issues of bonds and stocks. Nonresidents are not permitted to purchase bonds and stocks on the secondary market. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresident investors are allowed to sell their bonds and stocks in the secondary market. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Bonds or other debt securities Controls apply on all these transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1064 ZIMBABWE On money market instruments Controls apply on all these transactions. Purchase locally by nonresidents Former residents holding blocked assets and new emigrants are allowed to invest their funds in government external bonds with a maturity of 12 years and an annual interest rate of 4%. For investments prior to May 1993, under current legislation, disinvestment proceeds on the original amount of the investment qualify for remittances, but any capital appreciation that arises from revaluation of the investment goes to "blocked funds," which are then con- verted into six-year bonds at a 4% interest rate and a variable ratio of remittances allowed, depending on the discount offered. However, if the amount of capital appreciation is small, it may usually be repatriated without restriction. Effective May 20, 2003, all unremitted pension funds and any future pension remittances may be credited to an interest-earning block account. These funds were also allowed to be invested in money market instruments and remitted freely. For investments made after May 1, 1993, current legislation dictates that proceeds from any disinvestment may be remitted without restriction. On collective investment securities Controls apply on all these transactions. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits No derivative transactions with foreign currency implications are permitted. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents All foreign borrowing requires RBZ approval and, effective December 24,2003, prior ap- proval of the External Loans Coordination Committee. Gold producers undertaking new expansion projects are permitted access to offshore financing in the form of gold loans. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Residents are not permitted to provide credit to nonresidents without RBZ approval. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Yes. These investments require RBZ and MOFED approval on a case-by-case basis. Direct foreign investment in various sectors is subject to the prior approval of the Zim- babwe Investment Center, normally with the following conditions: (1) up to 100% foreign ownership is allowed in the following priority sectors: manufacturing, mining, quarry and mineral exploration, and development of hotels for tourism; (2) up to 70% foreign share- holding is permitted in specialized services such as management consultancy and construc- tion; and (3) a maximum of 35% foreign ownership (reserved sector list) is allowed in se- lected sectors, where foreign investors wishing to participate may do so only in joint- venture partnership with Zimbabwean firms or individuals. The reserved sector list is as follows: primary production of food and cash crops; primary horticulture; game, wildlife ranching, and livestock; forestry; fishing and fish farming; poultry farming; employment agencies; estate agencies; valet services; armaments manufacture, marketing, and distribu- tion; public water provision for domestic and industrial purposes; rail operations; grain mill products; bakery products; sugar products; tobacco packaging and grading; and tobacco products. All foreign investments, irrespective of their source, that have been undertaken through normal banking channels since May 1, 1993, may be repatriated. In all cases, specific ap- plications must be submitted to the RBZ with respect to repatriation of capital. Repatriation at accelerated rates that depend on discounted sale prices of net equity is allowed for in- vestments effected before 1979. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 1065 Controls on real estate transactions Controls apply on all real estate transactions. Controls on personal capital transactions Loans RBZ approval is required for all loans to or from nonresidents. Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Applications for emigrant status must be submitted to the RBZ; the settling-in allowance that emigrants may remit abroad is limited to the equivalent of US$1,000 a person or US$2,000 a family. In exceptional cases, the exchange control authorities will consider applications exceeding this maximum. All those applying for emigrant status are required to liquidate their assets within six months after emigrating and invest the total proceeds, less any settling-in allowance granted, in 4%, 12-year Zimbabwe government external bonds. Lottery prizes due to nonresidents may be transferred, provided that the funds that were used in betting were originally transferred into Zimbabwe in foreign currency. The first prize may not be remitted. Borrowing abroad is subject to exchange control rules and regulations and the approval of the External Loans Coordination Committee. Maintenance of accounts abroad The maintenance of accounts abroad is subject to exchange control rules and regulations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending to nonresidents is subject to exchange control rules and regulations, and is usually not permitted. Lending locally in foreign exchange These transactions are subject to exchange control rules and regulations. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange There are rules that allow for differential treatment of local exporters and companies operating in the export-processing zone. Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls apply to mortgage rates of building societies. Investment abroad by local banks in offshore entities is subject to exchange control approval. Acquisition of equity by nonresidents in local banks listed on the ZSE is subject to the ZSE's rules and regulations. Banks not listed on the ZSE are subject to exchange control approval. Authorized dealers are subject to overnight net foreign currency exposure limits. The net open position limits of foreign exchange dealers is the equivalent of US$2 million or 10% of their capital base, and their capital requirements are 5% (core/Tier 1) and 10% (total capital). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1066 ZIMBABWE On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Yes. Yes. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Local institutional investors are not permitted to invest in securities registered offshore. Yes. Yes. Purchase of shares by foreign investors is limited to 40% of the total equity of the company, with a limit of 10% for one investor. These limits are in addition to any existing foreign shareholdings in companies that existed prior to May 1, 1993. Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. Exchange arrangement Changes During 2003 March L The mid-rate of the Zimbabwe dollar to the U.S. dollar was set at the rate of Z$824 per US$1 for private transactions. March L The special exchange rates applicable to exports of gold and tobacco were abolished. Imports and import payments May 20. Advance payments for imports of up to the equivalent of US$100,000 (previously, US$50,000) were allowed. May 20. The amount of time within which imports of finished and raw goods must be ef- fected was reduced to 14 and 30 days after payment, respectively, from 90 days. Exports and export proceeds July L All exporters were granted a waiver on the 50% surrender requirement applicable to the incremental portion of their export, calculated on a quarterly basis. December 24. Exporters who declared their earnings and/or repatriated their foreign ex- change early were allowed to retain a greater share of their gross proceeds, depending on the time lag between export and receipt of payments. Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments May 20. All unremitted pension funds and any future pension remittances were permitted to be credited to an interest-earning block account. These funds were also allowed to be invested in money market instruments and remitted freely. Controls on credit operations December 24. Prior approval from the External Loans Coordination Committee was required for all foreign borrowing. Exchange arrangement Changes During 2004 January 17. The RBZ began to purchase three-quarters of the foreign exchange from the tobacco auction at the tender rate, with the remainder purchased at the Z$824 per US$1 rate. January 19. The Z$55 per US$1 rate was eliminated, and all transactions that took place at that rate began to be effected at the Z$824 per US$1 rate. January 19. A foreign exchange tender came into effect for all transactions that are not effected at the Z$824 per US$1 rate. Imports and import payments February 28. Valuation for customs duty began to be effected at the tender rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 1067 Exports and export proceeds January 19. The retained 50% of gross export receipts deposited in the FCA must be used within 21 days (previously, 60 days) for purposes specified in a priority list; the foreign exchange not used by this time would be liquidated into the auction market. Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers January L Receipts from tourists and sales by international organizations, embassies, and individuals were required to be immediately forwarded to the RBZ at the auction rate. January 19. Foreign exchange receipts from trade finance facilities and other capital in- flows were required to be surrendered to the RBZ at the auction rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX: COUNTRY TABLE MATRIX Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Article VIII Article XIV Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Dual Multiple Classification Exchange arrangement with no separate legal tender Currency board arrangement Conventional pegged arrangement Pegged exchange rate within horizontal bands Crawling peg Crawling band Managed floating with no pre- announced path for the exchange rate Independently floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Controls on the use of domestic currency For current transactions and payments For capital transactions Transactions in capital and money market instruments Transactions in derivatives and other instruments Credit operations 1068 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 1069 Use of foreign exchange among residents Payments arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency held abroad Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1070 APPENDIX Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Advance payment requirements Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for re- lease of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Imports and Import Payments Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 1071 Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Other export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these transfers Trade-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Investment-related payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Personal payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Other payments Prior approval ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1072 APPENDIX Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Shares or other securities of a participating nature Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Bonds or other debt securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 1073 Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Controls on personal capital transactions Loans By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Gifts, endowments, inheritances, and legacies By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Settlement of debts abroad by immigrants Transfer of assets Transfer abroad by emigrants Transfer into the country by immigrants Transfer of gambling and prize earnings Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1074 APPENDIX Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of deposit accounts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Differential treatment of deposit accounts held by nonresidents Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Credit controls Investment regulations Abroad by banks In banks by nonresidents Open foreign exchange position limits On resident assets and liabilities On nonresident assets and liabilities Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on securities issued by nonresidents Limits (max.) on investment portfolio held abroad Limits (min.) on investment portfolio held locally Currency-matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Changes During 2003 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 1075 Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Status under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange arrangement Arrangements for payments and receipts Resident accounts Nonresident accounts Imports and import payments Exports and export proceeds Payments for invisible transactions and current transfers Proceeds from invisible transactions and current transfers Capital transactions Controls on capital and money market instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Changes During 2004 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1076 APPENDIX Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Controls on personal capital transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 