 ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1982 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I n t e r n a t i o n al S tanda rd Serial N um b e r: ISSN 0250-7366 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1982 Washington, D.C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund July 22, 1982 Dear Sir: I have the honor to t ransm it to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1982, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ J. DE LAROSIERE Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director v ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Page PART ONE I. Introduction II. Main Developments in Exchange Rates and Exchange Arrangements III. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices Imports and Import Payments Quantitative Import Controls . . .. Import Surcharges and Import Taxation Advance Import Deposits Other Measures Affecting Payments State Trading Exports and Export Proceeds Current Invisibles Payments Arrears Multiple Currency Practices Bilateral Payments Arrangements . .. Capital Flows Gold IV. Main Developments Arrangements in Regional Import PART Two Explanatory Note on Coverage of Individual Countries Afghanistan Algeria Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Australia Austria Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium and Luxembourg Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Botswana Brazil Burma Burundi Cameroon Canada Cape Verde 1 6 14 14 14 17 19 20 21 21 24 27 29 31 32 37 37 44 45 47 50 52 57 62 66 70 72 76 79 84 86 89 90 92 93 100 102 105 108 110 Central Afr ican Republic Chad Chile China, People's Republic of Colombia Comoros Congo, People's Republic of the Costa Rica Cyprus Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon The Gambia Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kampuchea, Democratic* Page I ll 114 117 120 125 131 133 136 140 143 148 149 151 154 158 162 165 167 169 171 174 181 184 186 189 193 198 200 203 206 208 210 212 214 215 221 224 234 237 239 241 244 247 253 257 260 264 * The Fund has not received f rom the authorities of Democratic Kampuchea the in fo rma t ion requ ired for a description of the exchange and trade system as of December 31, 1981. Vll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Page Page Kenya 267 Korea 271 Kuwait 274 Lao People's Democratic Republic . . .. 276 Lebanon 278 Lesotho 280 Liberia 281 Libyan Arab Jamahiriya 282 Madagascar . 285 Malawi 288 Malaysia 290 Maldives 292 Mali 293 Malta 295 Mauritania 297 Mauritius 299 Mexico 302 Morocco 304 Nepal 308 Netherlands 311 Netherlands Antilles 315 New Zealand 317 Nicaragua 321 Niger 324 Nigeria 327 Norway 331 Oman 333 Pakistan 334 Panama 340 Papua New Guinea 341 Paraguay 343 Peru 346 Philippines 352 Portugal 358 Qatar 362 Romania 363 Rwanda 366 St. Lucia 368 St. Vincent and the Grenadines 370 Sao Tome and Principe 372 Saudi Arabia 374 Senegal 375 Seychelles 378 Sierra Leone 379 Singapore 382 Solomon Islands 384 Somalia 386 South Africa 389 Spain 394 Sri Lanka 399 Sudan 404 Suriname 407 Swaziland 410 Sweden 412 Switzerland 417 Syrian Arab Republic 419 Tanzania 422 Thailand 424 Togo 428 Trinidad and Tobago 431 Tunisia 435 Turkey 439 Uganda 445 United Arab Emirates 448 United Kingdom 450 United States 453 Upper Volta 458 Uruguay 462 Vanuatu 465 Venezuela 466 Viet Nam 468 Western Samoa 471 Yemen Arab Republic 473 Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of 474 Yugoslavia 477 Zaire 482 Zambia 486 Zimbabwe 491 Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries List of Abbreviations 496 503 vm ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT O NE ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction exert cumulative contractionary effects on world trade and growth and result in the loss of the momentum toward the liberalization of members' exchange and trade systems built up over the past three decades. The increased volatility of exchange rates that became evident in 1980 continued over the past year. Exchange and financial marke ts were generally dis- turbed by the deterioration of overall economic per- formance and uncertainties as to the fu tu re pa th of fiscal and other policies. With the adoption of more flexible exchange rate regimes by a growing number of members since the advent of generalized floating, exchange rates have been increasingly free and have reflected not only underlying but also ephemeral forces, and volatility in the foreign exchange markets has risen markedly. Nevertheless, the development in recent years of greater expertise in foreign exchange Chart 1. Growth of World Trade and Output, 1963-821 P er c e nt ' ~ T RADE AND OU T PUT This Report covers events in 1981 and, where the information is available, the early part of 1982, drawing upon a number of sources of information available to the International Monetary Fund. The primary source is data provided to the Fund staff in the course of consultation visits to member countries. The Fund's Articles of Agreement require that changes in members' exchange controls and exchange rate arrangements be notified to the Fund promptly as they occur; measures intensifying members' trade restrictions are subject to similar reporting require- ments when the member has been granted an arrange- ment by the Fund for the use of its resources. In addi- tion, the individual country references in Part Two of the Report have been prepared in close collaboration with national authorities. The Report centers on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions, but it also covers other external economic interventions by governments and intergovernmental arrangements that may have balance of payments implications. Global environment —Stagflation persisted in 1981 and was pervasive both in its domestic implications and in its consequences for the international exchange and trade system. For the first time since 1975, the growth rate of the volume of world trade fell below the growth rate of ou tpu t, in part reflecting reduced demand for oil (Chart 1). Compounded by problems associated with mounting unemployment and struc- tural adjustments to the new level of energy prices, and additionally in the case of the developing coun- tries by relatively depressed commodity export prices and heavy debt servicing burdens, the stagnant trade environment has led to increased calls for government intervention in support of domestic industries. High and widely dispersed inflation rates have impaired the effectiveness of exchange rate adjustments and also caused interest rate differentials that induced capital flows that were at times seen as incompatible with domestic objectives. As a result, some countries have resorted to capital controls with a view to obtaining a measure of independence for domestic financial poli- cies. The resulting combination of sectoral pressures for government support to counter import penetra- tion, and financial market pressures that have con- tributed to exchange rate levels not fully consistent with sustainable balance of payments positions, has weakened the commitment to an open and multilateral trade and exchange system. Thus far, the slump in trade may be viewed as a cause rather than as an effect of increasingly restrictive tendencies. Never- theless, restrictionist pressures, if unchecked, could REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS management at the enterprise level and the wider availability of forward cover have served to neutralize much uncertainty. Available evidence suggests that increased flexibility has not seriously hampered invest- ment decisions, at least in the industrial countries, and may therefore have not impeded the long-run expansion of trade. Official intervention aimed at dampening exchange rate fluctuations by making purchases or sales in the foreign exchange markets has therefore been viewed increasingly in terms of its likely benefits and costs. With the integration over the years of the international financial markets, the amount of intervention required to prevent exchange rate movements against funda- mental influences has become very large, with implica- tions for domestic monetary conditions. Partly in reflection of such considerations, the amount of inter- vention, as measured by gross monthly changes in official foreign exchange reserves, undertaken by authorities in the industrial countries lessened in 1981. Exchange rates of developing countries, on bal- ance, were little changed in nominal terms in 1981 af ter substantial depreciations in earlier years. When the continuing higher inflation rates generally pre- vailing in these countries are taken into account, real effective exchange rates, on average for the group, appreciated sharply in 1981. This appreciation, which was evident both for oil exporting and for non-oil developing countries, also reflected in part the strength of the U.S. dollar, to which the currencies of a large number of developing countries are pegged. Coun- tries in this group have increasingly adopted more flexible exchange regimes in recent years. The num- ber of discrete adjustments of exchange rates against their pegs also rose in 1981, but the frequency and magnitude of adjustments of regimes and of rates were generally insuff ic ient to offset in f la t ion differentials. Commercial and exchange policy developments— As noted above, there has been a weakening over the past year in the commitment to an open and free trading system by influential groups at the national level. This has led to an increasing tendency to bilat- eral and sectoral policy actions outside these chan- nels. Recent measures have included the continued maintenance by Japan of voluntary export restraints on automobiles, television sets, and, more recently, on certain computer components; bilateral agree- ments pertaining to imports of steel by the European Community (EC ) ;1 antidumping actions for steel 1 The members are Belgium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Ne ther lands, and United Kingdom. 4 imports by the United States; and f requent counter- vailing actions involving a number of the industrial countries. A recent example of these pressures is the second Mu l t if iber Arrangement (MFA) which, although re ta in ing a multilateral framework and limiting the ex tent of retrogression, permits a more restrictive stance toward imports of textiles from low-cost countries, especially those from dom inant suppliers. Agr icu l tural protectionism also continued unabated. Export subsidies ref lec t ing the political importance of the agricultural sector and "food security" concerns in many countries not only pro- tected the domestic marke ts in these countries but also led to the displacement of more efficient pro- ducers from third markets. These developments contrast with the liberalization of trade and the introduction of generalized tar iff preferences for developing countries that occurred during the early 1970s. Despite the conclusion in 1979 of the Tokyo Round of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations (MTN) and the implementation of tar iff concessions for tropical products, which contained a number of positive elements, progress toward liberali- zation stalled in the late 1970s, and there is a danger of retrogression. With the conclusion of the MTN, the mechanisms of the General Agreement on Tar iffs and Trade (GATT) have been strengthened. In a recent decision taken by the Executive Board in April 1982, the Fund's support was also pledged for the con t inu ing e f fo r ts of the GATT in the trade liberalization area. The general balance of payments d iff icu l t ies of non-oil developing countries and the consequent lack of progress toward liberalization of their trade and payments systems, noted in the preceding Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1981, continued in 1981 and in early 1982. Compared with the establishment of a realistic level for the exchange rate, supported by appropriate monetary and fiscal policies, restrictive trade mea- sures not only incur large administrative costs (of paramount importance to countries with limited resources) but they also serve to divert resources f rom efficient (usually export) industries to relatively inefficient (usually import-substituting) industries. Article VIII of the Articles of Agreement under- pins the Fund's role in encouraging its members to avoid restrictions on payments for trade and other current payments (which Article XXX defines to include payments due in connection with normal short-term banking and credit facilities, and moderate amortization payments on capital). Over the years, considerable progress has been made toward this ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION Chart 2. Incidence of Restrictive Practices by Fund Members, 1966-81J N u m b er of c o u n t r i es 60 | Import surcharges ^H ./^ External payments arrears2 10 - -U ~ /Wvo /ur import deposits ****** ^ ^*"^ ml r"' 1 9 6 6 67 OS 69 70 7] 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 8] N u m b er of c o u n t r i es 100 I Capital payments restrictions basic objective of the Fund —promoting an open system of multilateral payments —both with respect to the original membership and with respect to the many members joining the Fund after its inception who have generally entered with a higher than aver- age level of restrictiveness. Chart 2 traces trends in the number of various forms of restrictive practices maintained by a representative group of Fund mem- bers since the mid-1960s; it indicates broad progress in the 1970s in eliminating bilateral payments arrangements, multiple currency practices, and sun- dry forms of restrictions on payments for current transactions (mainly direct quantitative restrictions) .2 That the incidence of import surcharges has increased over this period while the use of advance import 2 The data shown in Chart 2 are for a constant sample of countries (the 1966 Fund membership, with the excep- tion of external payments arrears, which are based on the 1975 membership). deposits has shown little reduction reflects, in part, generalized fiscal difficulties. Restrictions on pay- ments for capital transactions have also remained relatively widespread. Most important in its implications for the smooth func t ion ing of the international payments system is the fact that the number of Fund members incurring external payments arrears (including government defaults) has continued to rise: 32 countries had outstanding arrears in 1981, compared with 15 coun- tries in 1975. Relative to trade and to external debt, the aggregate amounts in arrears peaked in 1977 and have declined since then. Although this reduc- tion in the aggregate amounts may indicate an improvement in the overall risk climate for creditors, the existence of still significant amounts of arrears in a wider group of countries signals increased diffi- culties for debtor-creditor relations. The use of import-restricting measures, on bal- ance, increased in 1981. In the industrial countries, protectionist pressures intensified in several indus- trial sectors involving products of developed as well as developing countries. As bilateral trade imbal- ances were viewed as the main cause of the resur- gence in protectionist pressures, there was a growing tendency to attempt to find solutions through bilat- eral consultations and agreements in the area of nontariff barriers, including quantitative restrictions. Notably, a significantly greater share of world trade in automobiles has become subject to restrictions in the form of vo lun tary export restraint agreements. A number of developing countries with improving balance of payments prospects liberalized quantita- tive restrictions, while those experiencing balance of paymen ts difficulties intensified restrictions, including import prohibitions and import surcharges. How- ever, as many of the coun tr ies su f f e r ing from balance of paymen ts difficulties were also experiencing dete- r io ra t ing fiscal positions, the budge tary aspect of import surcharges was as impor tant as their import- res tr ic t ing effec ts in these countries. Reliance on mu l t ip le currency practices by the developing coun- try group as a whole did not change significantly in 1981. In a number of countries engaging in multiple currency practices the multiple exchange ra te struc- tu re reflected typically a dual exchange market sys- tem under which one of the rates was allowed to be de te rm ined by supply and demand conditions rather than resulting from an officially determined rate s truc ture through direct exchange rate quotations or exchange taxes. Further progress was recorded in the decrease in the reliance on bilateral payments arrangements among Fund members. The volume REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS of trade conducted under bilateral payments arrange- ments by Fund members, excluding that with state trading countries, is now small. In general, the direction of modification of capital control regimes by industrial countries in the period under review continued overwhelmingly toward lib- eralization and, consequently, toward fuller integra- tion of international capital markets. There were, however, several instances involving the reintroduc- tion of measures a f fec t ing capital flows with a view to partly insulating national exchange markets f rom financial conditions abroad. There were also mem- bers retaining significant capital control regimes that administered quotas and ceilings in such a way as to achieve similar insulating effects but without intro- ducing new controls. Ad jus tmen ts to d i f fe ren t ial reserve requirements on foreign liabilities were also used to this end. Continued balance of payments pressures in developing countries were reflected in the virtual absence of movement toward liberaliza- tion of capital controls. Although many countries in this group approached these difficulties by removing or reducing impediments to capital inflows, an equal number of actions in 1981 involved increased limita- tions on capital outflows. With the accession to membership by Bhutan and Vanua tu on September 28, 1981, the total Fund membersh ip increased to 143 countries as of end- 1981. During 1981, one coun try, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Articles of Agreement, raising to 54 the number of members that have formally accepted these obligations and 88 members, including Bhu tan, were availing them- selves of the transitional arrangements under Arti- cle XIV, Section 2. Neither Vanua tu nor two of the three countries that joined the Fund in the first half of 1982, viz., Antigua and Barbuda (February 25, 1982) and Belize (March 16, 1982), have yet indi- cated their intention with respect to their status under Article VIII or Article XIV. The Hungarian Peo- ple's Republic, which became a member of the Fund on May 6, 1982, has availed itself of Article XIV status.3 II. Main Developments in Exchange Rates and Exchange Arrangements This section reports on major developments in members' exchange rates and exchange arrange- ments as notified to the Fund in accordance with members' obligations under Article IV, Section 2 ( a ), of the Articles of Agreement. Developments in respect of multiple exchange rate arrangements and official measures resulting in different buying or selling rates are summarized in a separate section on multiple currency practices. Surveillance of exchange arrangements of members by the Fund, as required under Article IV, Section 3, is normally conducted in the context of annual con- sultations, but changes introduced during the inter- vening period are notifed to the Executive Board. For the purpose of facilitating the implementation of the Fund's surveillance policy in this area, exchange arrangements notified to the Fund are 3 Article VIII of the Fund's Articles of Agreement sets out, inter alia, the general obligations of members to avoid restrictions on payments and transfers for current interna- tional transactions, to avoid discriminatory currency practices, and to ensure convertibility of foreign-held balances. Arti- cle XIV describes transitional arrangements by which a member may, notwithstanding the provisions of Article VIII, no t i fy the Fund that it will ma in ta in and adapt to changing circumstances the restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions that were in effect on the date on which it became a member. 6 classified under three broad headings, as follows: (1) currencies that are pegged to a single currency or to a composite of currencies (including the SDR); (2) currencies whose exchange rates, although not pegged, have displayed a limited flexibility compared with either a single currency or a group of currencies; and (3) currencies whose exchange rates are more flexible.4 The basic distinguishing factor for the classification of members' exchange arrangements is the extent and form of the flexibility that these arrangements permit, and th is factor is applied to subcategorize each of the broad headings in Table 1. Accordingly, the "Pegged" category lists members in line w i th the nature of their peg. Those members whose currencies are pegged to a single currency do so within zero fluctuation margins; those members whose currencies are listed as pegged to the SDR or "Other composite" maintain their exchange rates within zero or very narrow margins, seldom exceed- ing 1 per cent about their peg. Within the "Flexibility Limited" category a "Single currency" subclassifica- tion lists those members that are observed to main- tain an exchange arrangement such that their exchange 4 In the period Ju ly 1975 to December 1981 the exchange arrangements of Fund members were classified under four broad headings, as follows: (1) currencies pegged to a single currency or to a composite of currencies (including ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A I N D E V E L O P M E N T S I N E X C H A N G E R A T E S A N D E X C H A N G E A R R A N G E M E N T S 1 1 1 - g £ « 1 . a D - o D - i U s £ | « i l ! * n H P f a l l i , S < u u o 3 £ 3 < g ! |- 8 < O ( 0 £ § - • S « ° a a J t 2 f * x * d M » S * f c a s S i o 1 « * I « l i H - g g & * • M I m i i i s s H f I i i M « i n r - » i S « i s i l s i i i ; i * t S l l i t * * O 1 5 " 0 8 ' l S r 3 r t * « O < 4 > < i § : | a - | 1 E * • - g s ^ 2 . s | | § 4 3 | I S ! ° ? S 3 l i 3 i i i f i i f « i i 1 f L l i i i i i i i i l l i n ! U ] | ^ g ! 3 W r t « Q £ o A 5 3 ^ ; g - a . § f i s « - g i 5 t i s a o s + i ? ^ a ^ | ^ 8 1 3 3 x o c 2 | | o - S f i 3 £ « o g . • 2 . < o ? 2 « 8 8 . 1 S S x s a £ ^ c § ^ « 0 2 - ^ s § - 9 , ° - | - S - , r t - 5 s I « g * | o B « | H I J | s j | | 1 3 ^ | 5 l S j e 3 . c 9 g g t ( ; a « c 5 § i 3 w + o I 2 ° ^ * - s j e ^ ^ m O O N S S S / w D - ^ f t « « | f t g | . ^ . f | l * i n i l ! l i j i i i i i i i i i i H H n i i f f i i 1 « « « u u u f i E w S S S ^ S 3 5 5 ! g . c « « 1 . i l ! l : • - € & « H i l i ? g . . ! . , I I ! s , n ! | . t . J W J * ! ! ' l i l i i ' H P S J i i i ( ! « i l i i 3 g j - j i 1 1 a l » ! l ? i i l i J i ^ - J i f l B | ! | i 3 ! ! i l l i a ? i ! I i a g | s . i s i i i i i 3 * i f ; i l i £ S i J I h J N H i i l i l i t . 1 . » . . . s . { . 1 . | , i ! - « i f * « P J i H i n n H ' U P P I I ^ 1 0 ^ i « S B ^ » J S 2 S < S 3 S B 5 ! » i , = i l . - l H i . H i l l ! ! 1 ! ! ! ! J I l l i ! i l l l i ! H i ! ! l i d < « f f l c q « u Q Q Q W w w w O G K £ £ 6 i 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS rate fluctuates within the equivalent of 21A per cent margins with respect to another member's currency. A second subclassification "Cooperative arrange- ments," lists the countries participating in the European Monetary System (EMS) exchange rate mechanism; all but one of these countries maintain 21A per cent margins with respect to their cross rates based on the central rates expressed in terms of the European Currency Unit (ECU ) .5 Members with exchange arrangements listed under the "More Flex- ible" category maintain their exchange rates within margins exceeding 21A per cent about either another member's currency or a composite of other mem- bers' currencies. This residual group has been sub- classified on the basis of the extent to which the authorities intervene in the setting of exchange rates. In some instances the authorities allow the exchange rate to move continuously over time to reflect mar- ket forces; if they intervene at all they do so only to influence, not to neutralize, the speed of exchange rate movement. Members maintaining such an exchange arrangement are, within the "More Flex- ible" category, subclassified under "Independently floating." Alternatively, the authorities may set the rate for a specified short interval (usually one day or one week) and stand ready to buy and sell foreign exchange at the specified rate. Those members that follow this practice and, moreover, who set their exchange rates on the basis of certain indicators are subclassified as "Adjusted according to a set of indi- cators." The remaining members of the "More Flexible" category fall into the "Other managed floating" subdivision. There were no major changes in the institutional arrangement of or participation in the EMS during the period under review. Greece, which became a member of the EC on January 1, 1981, decided not to participate in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS for the time being. However, the SDR); (2) exchange rates adjusted according to a set of indicators; (3) cooperative arrangements; and (4) other a r rangemen ts (which did not precisely fit the definitional criteria under classifications ( l ) - ( 3 ) ). During this period, exchange arrangemen ts in general tended to become more heterogeneous. One result was that the residual category "Other arrangements" grew from 15 members in Ju ly 1975 (out of a total membership of 126) to 37 members in December 1981 (out of a total membership of 143). It seemed likely, based on current trends, that this residual group would soon exceed the largest category of the classifi- cation —the then 38 members pegging their currencies to the U.S. dollar. As such a large undefined residual category is unsatisfactory for classification purposes, the present method of classification was adopted. 5 Italy maintains margins of 6 per cent. 8 the Treaty of Accession provides that the drachma will be included in the basket of currencies compris- ing the ECU during any revision of it that may be made before December 31, 1985. If no such revision takes place, December 31, 1985 is set as the latest date for the inclusion of the drachma in the ECU. Following the European Council's decision in December 1980 to extend the interim arrangements of the EMS for the time being, the EC central bank governors decided to extend the present swap arrangements for a two-year period beyond the original expiration date of March 13, 1981. Pressures developed w i th in the EMS on several occasions in 1981, and two realignments of the parity grid took place. The deutsche mark came under heavy pressure at the end of January and the begin- ning of February —requiring ma jor intervention to keep it within its agreed margins against the French franc. The Deutsche Bundesbank in February altered its Lombard facility, which led to a sharp increase in German interest rates; this helped move the deutsche mark from the bottom of the EMS band to the top. The Italian lira came under pressure at the beginning of March, and its divergence indicator fell below its lower threshold despite substantial inter- vention.6 Effective March 23, the Italian lira was devalued by 6 per cent against the other EMS curren- cies. During the first five months of 1981, the Bel- gian franc also exhibited considerable weakness. The French f ranc came under pressure following the French presidential election, and the monetary authorities of some of the EMS members intervened heavily in May to keep the French franc within the agreed margins. The French f ranc and the Belgian franc came under pressure against the deutsche mark in September. On October 5 the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder were revalued by 5.5 per 6 Intervention in EMS currencies, which is required in un l im i ted amounts when bilateral limits are reached, may create claims or liabilities to the very short-term fac i l i ty of the European Monetary Cooperation Fund (EMCF ), which then no rma l ly must be settled by the transfer of ECUs or other reserve assets w i th in 45 days of the end of the month in which intervention takes place. The divergence indi- cator is a measure of the divergence of the market rate expressed in ECUs for each EMS currency f rom its ECU cen tral rate. Divergence is permitted as far as the diver- gence thresholds, which are established for each currency, tak ing into account its weight in the ECU basket in such a manner that there is broadly the same degree of probability of each EMS currency reaching its threshold. When a threshold is reached, there is a presumption that the authori- ties concerned will correct the situation by diversified inter- vention, measures of domestic monetary policy, changes in central rates, or other economic policy measures. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS cent, while the French franc and the Italian lira were devalued by 3 per cent against the Belgian franc, the Danish krone, the Luxembourg f ranc, and the Irish pound. The overall realignment was larger than both the realignment of September 1979 and the realign- ments within the former European Common Margins Arrangement. The ad jus tmen ts implied a revaluation of the deutsche mark against the French franc and the Italian lira of nearly 8.8 per cent. Within the EMS as a whole, the deutsche mark appreciated by nearly 7 per cent. On the basis of the EMS central rates, the realignment entailed an overall effective depreciation of the French f ranc of 3.7 per cent, a depreciation of 4.6 per cent against the other partici- pants in the EMS, and a depreciation of 8.1 per cent against the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder. The realignment's impact was least sig- nificant in effective terms for Belgium, Denmark, Ireland, and Italy. On October 5 exchange rates of the deutsche mark and Netherlands guilder appreci- ated against the U.S. dollar by 2.2 and 3.1 per cent, respectively, while the French f ranc depreciated by 2.0 per cent. Subsequent to the realignment, there were minimal pressures on the EMS during the last quarter of 1981, except that the Belgian f r anc needed continuous support w i th in the system. Pressure on the Belgian f ranc intensified in December, and the Danish krone, too, came under pressure in early 1982, with the result that on February 22, 1982 a fu r ther realignment of the parity grid took place. The ad jus tmen ts resulted in a devaluation of the Belgian f ranc and the Danish krone by 8.5 per cent and 3 per cent, respectively, against the other EMS currencies. In deriving the new ECU central rates, the notional ECU central rate of the pound sterling was revalued by about 8 per cent to allow for the change in its market rate since the realignment of October 1981. This entailed a slight devaluation in terms of the ECU of the central rates of the other currencies participating in the system. As a result of the realignment, the exchange rates of the Belgian franc and the Danish krone against the U.S. dollar, depreciated by 5.4 per cent and 1.6 per cent, respec- tively. Following renewed pressure within the EMS, especially against the French franc, a third realign- ment of EMS currencies was decided upon on June 12, 1982. With effect from June 14, 1982, the French franc and the Italian lira were devalued by 5.75 per cent and 2.75 per cent, respectively, while the deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder were revalued by 4.25 per cent against the currencies of Belgium and Luxembourg, Denmark, and Ireland. During 1981 the U.S. dollar appreciated consid- erably against the EMS currencies, somewhat less against the Japanese yen and the Swiss franc, and depreciated marginally against the Canadian dollar. The upward trend in the quotations of the U.S. dollar observed toward the end of 1980 continued until the beginning of August, when the U.S. dollar reached record levels against many currencies and the highest level against the SDR since the basket method of SDR valuation came into effec t. The U.S. dollar was supported by high interest rates on dollar-denominated assets and a strengthening of the current account of the balance of payments of the United States, although in the last quarter of 1981 an easing of interest rates exerted downward pressure on the dollar. Neverthe- less, and due in part to significant interest rate d i f fe r- entials during most of the year, the EMS currencies, the Swiss franc, and the Japanese yen depreciated against the U.S. dollar in nominal end-of-year terms by between 2 per cent (Swiss f ranc) and 22.5 per cent ( I ta l ian l i r a ), while the Canadian dollar appre- ciated by 0.7 per cent. In the first qua r ter of 1982 the ma jor currencies depreciated by 8.9 per cent on average against the U.S. dollar reflecting, inter alia, continued high interest rates on U.S. dollar- denominated assets and a reduction in U.S. inflation. As in 1980, but in contrast to 1979, there were sizable movements in the effec t ive exchange ra te s7 of the currencies of most industrial countries in 1981. In effective end-of-year terms, the largest apprecia- tions were recorded for the U.S. dollar and the Swiss franc, which rose by 11.3 per cent and 8.5 per cent, respectively. The Canadian dollar gained 6.2 per cent in effective terms, while the currencies of Austria and Japan rose by 5.1 per cent and 3.8 per cent, respectively. On the other hand, all EMS currencies declined in effec t ive terms from 0.7 per cent for the deutsche mark to 13.2 per cent for the Italian lira. The Norwegian krone and the Swedish krona de- preciated by 0.6 per cent and 11.8 per cent, respec- tively. During the first quarter of 1982 changes in effective rates included a strong appreciation of the 7 Based on the Fund's mu l t i la te ral exchange ra te model (M E RM ), in which the implicit weighting structure takes account of the relative importance of a coun try's t rad ing pa r tne rs in its direct bilateral re la t ionsh ips w i th them, of competitive re la t ionsh ips w i th "third countries" in par- t icu lar markets, and of estimated elasticities a f fec t ing t rade flows. Changes in effec t ive exchange rates derived f rom MERM may d i f f er from estimated e f fec t ive exchange ra te changes based on changes in trade-weighted exchange rate indices for which the relative importance of the exchange ra te changes of particular countries is measured in terms of these countries' shares in bilateral trade of the country in question. 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS U.S. dollar by 7.6 per cent, an appreciation of 0.31 per cent of the deutsche mark, and depreciations of the Belgian f ranc (10.7 per cen t ), the French franc (1.5 per cen t), the Japanese yen (7.8 per cen t ), the Swiss f ranc (0.8 per c en t ), and the pound sterling (0.1 per cen t ). During the period under review seven members notified the Fund of changes in their exchange arrangements involving reclassification under the Fund's classification scheme for exchange arrange- ments (Table 1). In addition, initial notifications of exchange arrangements were received f rom Antigua and Barbuda, Belize, Bhu tan, and Vanua tu. The general trend of the notifications was, on balance, away from pegging arrangemen ts and toward more flexible arrangements. Two exchange arrangements involving SDR pegs were announced. Vanua tu decided in September to peg the vatu to the SDR and to determine daily the exchange rates for a number of major currencies on the basis of their rates in terms of the SDR as published by the Fund. Uganda, which previously pegged its currency to the SDR, notified the Fund in June that thenceforth the exchange rate of the shilling was to be determined daily on the basis of supply and demand for foreign exchange. Uganda's exchange arrangement was consequently reclassified to the "Other managed floating" subclassification of the "More Flexible" category. During the course of the period under review three members announced that their currency was pegged to that of another member, while another three announced that they had ceased to observe a single currency peg. A seventh member discontinued its past practice of pegging to a currency composite other than the SDR. On assuming membership with the Fund, An t igua and Barbuda announced in February 1982 that its currency was the East Carib- bean dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar. In March 1982 Belize notified the Fund that the Belize dollar was pegged to the U.S. dollar. Bhutan an- nounced in September 1981 that the ngultrum was pegged to the Indian rupee. In June 1981 Guyana notified the Fund tha t, although the exchange rate for the dollar would be determined on the basis of a basket of currencies, changes in the exchange rate would only be adopted when the prevailing exchange rate diverges significantly from the rate determined by the currency basket. In view of this and subsequent developments, the Guyana dollar was reclassified f rom the "Pegged (U.S. dollar)" category to the "Flexibility Limited (Single currency)" category. With effect f rom April 2, 1982 Madagascar ceased to 10 peg the Malagasy f ranc to the French f ranc and began to peg its currency to a composite of currencies reflecting the distribution of Madagascar's trade dur- ing 1973-80. In August Thailand announced that the external value of the baht was to be determined not only, as in the past, on the basis of a basket of cur- rencies but also by taking into account other con- siderations such as balance of paymen ts and exchange market considerations. This led to the reclassification of Thailand's exchange arrangement to the "More Flexible (Other managed floating)" category. Pakis- tan indicated in Janua ry 1982 that a managed floating exchange rate for the rupee would be maintained. The State Bank of Pakistan now fixes the rupee exchange rate against the U.S. dollar on a daily basis. As a result of this action, the Pakistani rupee was reclassified f rom the "Pegged (U.S. do l la r )" category to the "More Flexible (Other managed floating)" category. Costa Rica's exchange arrangements were reclassi- fied four times in the course of the period under review. At the end of 1980 the exchange arrangement belonged to the "More Flexible (Independently float- ing)" category. In early March 1981 the exchange arrangement was reclassified to the "Pegged (U.S. dollar)" category in view of the establishment of a dual exchange market consisting of an official market in which the colon was pegged to the U.S. dollar. During April-July, when the exchange markets were reunified on the basis of a flexible exchange rate system, the exchange arrangement belonged to the "More Flexible (Independently floating)" category. In July, although multiple exchange markets were introduced, the pegging arrangement was used with respect to two main exchange rates so that the exchange arrangement was reclassified to the category "Pegged (U.S. dollar)." In October, as a large pro- portion of exchange transactions began to be trans- acted in an exchange market where the rates were responsive to market forces, the exchange arrange- ment was reclassified as belonging to the category of "More Flexible (Independently floating)." When Bolivia adopted in March 1982 a dual exchange market system, consisting of an official market and a free market, its exchange arrangement was classified under the category of "More Flexible (Other man- aged floating)," in accordance with the revised classi- fication system and in view of the increased impor- tance of the free market. At the end of March 1982 the currencies of 58 members were pegged to a single currency (39 to the U.S. dollar, 14 to the French franc, 2 to the South African rand, and 1 each to the Indian rupee, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS the pound sterling, and the Spanish pese ta). Fifteen currencies were pegged to the SDR and 21 to other currency composites. In all, 94 members had cur- rencies classified under the "Pegged" category. Eigh- teen members ma in ta ined exchange arrangements classified in the "Flexibility Limited" category. With- in this grouping 10 currencies were in the "Single currency" subclassification (9 vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar and 1 vis-a-vis the French f r a n c ), as a result of having their exchange rates fluctuate within margins of 21A per cent or less against an identifiable single currency; the other 8 members maintained coopera- tive arrangements within the EMS. Thirty-two mem- bers maintained exchange arrangements in the "More Flexible" category; of these, 4 adjusted their exchange rates according to a set of indicators, 18 operated a managed float, and 10 floated independently.8 Numerous modifications of exchange arrangements, which did not entail a change in the Fund's classi- fication of the arrangements, were also notified to the Fund during the period under review. These modifi- cations involved discrete adjustments in the exchange value of pegged currencies, changes in the mode or pace of change of preannounced exchange rates, ad jus tmen ts of currency baskets determining the exchange value of currencies (w i thout necessarily involving a change in the level of the peg ), and adjustments of margins around the peg. A large number of countries lowered the external value of their currencies dur ing the period under review. While in most instances devaluations were sizable and reflected the need to correct apprecia- tion in real terms that had taken place over a number of years, some countries, particularly those linked to the SDR and to the U.S. dollar, devalued their currencies because of the increased strength of the U.S. dollar. Other members lowered the interna- tional value of their currencies more frequently with- out, however, being guided by an explicit set of indi- cators. These members included a small number of countries that preannounced their exchange rates with a view to reducing uncertainty and affecting in f la t iona ry expectations. Bangladesh altered the middle rate of the taka in terms of the pound sterling, the intervention currency, on 17 occasions during 1981 for a cumulative appreciation against the pound sterling of 2.4 per cent but a depreciation in terms of the SDR and the U.S. dollar of 10.4 per cent and 18.1 per cent, respectively. On February 5, 1982 the Central Bank of Bolivia announced a 44.3 per 8 No current Kampuchea. informa t ion is available on Democratic cent devaluation of the peso with respect to the U.S. dollar. The Central Bank of Costa Rica, on October 7, 1981, adjusted the selling rate for the colon per U.S. dollar in the banking exchange market to effect a 37.1 per cent depreciation. On Novem- ber 27 the official exchange rate (selling) for the colon was depreciated by 57.3 per cent against the U.S. dollar. Ecuador modified on March 3, 1982 the operation of its dual exchange ma rket system by announc ing that trade transac t ions other than petro- leum exports would take place at rates that represent a depreciation of 13 per cent for essential impor ts and of 21 per cent for all other imports and exports, respectively, relative to the previously preva i l ing official rates. Egypt in troduced, w i th e f fect from August 1, 1981, a new commercial bank ra te that represented a 16.7 per cent deva lua t ion against the official exchange rate of LE 0.07 = US$1, which the Central Bank applies to its fore ign exchange dealings. The new ra te is to be fixed periodically on the basis of the rate prevailing in the legal parallel exchange market. On June 2 the Guyana dollar was devalued by 15 per cent against the previous rate in terms of the U.S. dollar; the previous ra te had been in effect since October 1975. Kenya, whose currency is pegged to the SDR, devalued the shilling in February and again in September for a cumu la t ive depreciation of 19.2 per cent against the SDR. Maur i tan ia devalued the ouguiya by 2 per cent in February 1982. With effect from September 27 the Maur i t ian rupee was devalued by 16.7 per cent in terms of the SDR, to which it is pegged, for all foreign exchange trans- actions except those for imports of rice and flour on government account, to which the old rate is applied. The Central Bank of Mexico w i thdrew temporarily from the foreign exchange market on February 18, 1982. Following the suspension of in terven t ion, the m idpo int exchange rate was Mex$37.0 = US$1, representing a depreciation of 27.3 per cent from the rate of Mex$26.885 = US$1 on February 17, 1982. Effec t ive September 19 the au thor i t ies of Nepal unified the dual exchange rates for the Nepalese rupee in terms of the U.S. dollar at a mid- point rate of NRs 13.20 per US$1, representing, in terms of the U.S. dollar, a 9 per r - nt depreciation against the previous "basic" rate and a 6.1 per cent appreciation against the previous "second" rate. On January 8, 1982 Pakistan announced that it would maintain a managed floating exchange rate for the rupee. On January 10, 1982, the first work- ing day a f ter the arrangement was introduced, the State Bank's buying rate for the U.S. dollar from authorized dealers was PRs 10.10 = US$1, which 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS represented a 1.98 per cent depreciation in terms of the previously fixed rate of PRs 9.90 = US$1. E f fec t ive Janua ry 1, 1981 Romania implemented a set of measures that amounted to a devaluation, on average, of the leu for trade and trade-related transactions. While the nominal exchange rate for such transactions was revalued from lei 18 per US$1 to lei 15 per US$1, the system of equalization payments that was designed to make the leu value of all exports and the cost of some imports equal to the domestic leu value of the goods concerned was term ina ted .9 The Solomon Islands informed the Fund in March that the exchange value of the Solo- mon Islands dollar had been reduced by about 6 per cent against the Aus tra l ian dollar, the interven- tion currency, to SI$ 1 = $ A 1; th is change brought the exchange value of the Solomon Islands dollar back to that prevailing before the May 1979 revalua- tion. In June Somalia introduced a second exchange ma rket in which all exchange transactions, with the exception of those relating to the impor ta t ion of specified essential commodities, were to be carried out at the exchange rate of So. Sh. 12.59 = US$1. This rate represented a devaluation of 50 per cent relative to the ra te applicable to essential imports. On November 9, Sudan announced the unification of its official and parallel exchange rates at US$1.11 = LSd 1 (LSdO .90 = US$1). The unification of the rate represented a depreciation of 44.4 per cent against the U.S. dollar rate previously maintained in the official ma rket and a depreciation of 11.1 per cent against the previous U.S. dollar rate in the parallel ma rke t. On September 14, Sweden devalued the krona by 10 per cent against its currency com- posite. Effective March 8, 1982 the Bank of Tan- zania changed the central ra te for the shilling against the U.S. dollar from T Sh 8.440 = US$1 to T Sh 9.28435 = US$1, which represented a 9.1 per cent depreciation of the shilling against the U.S. dollar. Thailand changed the exchange rate for the baht to B 21.00 = US$1 on May 12, 1981 and to B 23.00 = US$1 on July 15. These changes repre- sented a cumu la t ive depreciation of 9.7 per cent in terms of the U.S. dollar. In the four-month period ended May 1, 1981 the value of the Turkish lira against the U.S. dollar was ad jus ted periodically for a cumu la t ive depreciation in terms of the U.S. dollar 9 On Janua ry 30, 1981 the prem ium applied to the official rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 with respect to purchases and sales of currencies of nonsocialist countries and Yugoslavia for nontrade transactions was lowered, with the result that the rate for such transactions became lei 11 = US$1 instead of lei 12 per US$1 previously. 12 of 10.6 per cent. Since May 1 the Turkish Central Bank has quoted the exchange rates for the lira on a daily basis. The Turkish lira depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 33 per cent in 1981 and by a fu r ther 9.7 per cent in the first quar ter of 1982. On July 6 the official exchange rate of the Viet Nam dong was devalued by 70.5 per cent against the SDR, to which the dong is pegged. The authorities of Western Samoa announced in November that the midpoint exchange rate of the Western Samoan tala had been depreciated by 1.3 per cent in terms of the New Zealand dollar. On June 19 Zaire devalued the zai're by 40 per cent against the SDR. India, which maintains the value of its currency w i th in 5 per cent margins about a weighted basket of currencies of its ma jor t rad ing par tners, changed the exchange ra te of the rupee against its intervention currency, the pound sterling, 71 times in 1981 for a cumulative appreciation of 8.7 per cent against the pound sterling and a cumu la t ive depreciation of 12.8 per cent against the U.S. dollar. The rupee-sterling rate was changed on 23 occasions in the first three months of 1982, resulting in a cumulative apprecia- tion of 3.9 per cent against the pound sterling and a cumulative depreciation of 2.6 per cent against the U.S. dollar. Countries that f requen t ly changed the exchange rate of their currencies w i thout strictly following an explicit set of indicators effected the following cumu la t ive rates of depreciation in 1981 against their intervention currency, the U.S. dollar: Iceland, 23.7 per cent; Korea, 5.8 per cent; and New Zealand, 14.3 per cent. The cumu la t ive rates of depreciation in the first quar ter of 1982 against the U.S. dollar were as follows: Iceland, 20 per cent; Korea, 8.2 per cen t; and New Zealand, 7 per cent. In addition, Brazil, Colombia, Peru, and Portugal adjusted the exchange rates of their currencies f re- quen t ly by small amounts on the basis of a sfct of indicators. The cumulative rates of devaluation against the U.S. dollar of the currencies of these coun tr ies du r ing 1981 were as follows: Brazilian cruzeiro, 48.7 per cent; Colombian peso, 13.6 per cent; Peruvian sol, 32.5 per cent; and Portuguese escudo, 18.7 per cent. In the first qua r ter of 1982 the cumu la t ive rates of depreciation against the U.S. dollar were Brazil, 13.8 per cent; Colombia, 3.8 per cent; Peru, 12.0 per cent; and Portugal, 8.4 per cent. A number of modifications were adopted by the countries relying on advance announcemen ts of the exchange rates of their currencies. On February 3, 1981 Argentina devalued the peso by 9.1 per cent against the U.S. dollar and reverted to announcing daily rates by publishing a schedule of "regulation" ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RATES AND EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS rates through to the end of August.10 On April 2, following a two-day closure of the exchange market, the spot buying and selling rates of the peso were depreciated by 24.5 per cent and 23.2 per cent, respectively. At the same time, Argentina announced that it intended to ad just these rates by small amounts at f requent intervals and that the Central Bank would de term ine the spot buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar. On June 2, the spot buying and selling ra tes for the U.S. dollar were depreciated by 23 per cent. Moreover, Argentina expressed the intention to depreciate the peso by a fu r ther 6 per cent du r ing the month of June and to ad just the exchange ra te in such a way as to maintain the real effective ra te of the peso at its level of June 30. On June 22, 1981, the foreign exchange market was split in to a commercial exchange market and a financial exchange market. The immediate effect of splitting the markets was to depreciate the peso against the U.S. dollar by 2.1 per cent in the com- mercial exchange market and by 32.9 per cent in the financial exchange market. On December 24 the foreign exchange market was unified, and the peso was allowed to float freely. On the first day of trad ing the un if ied exchange rate was $a 9,800 = US$1, representing a depreciation of 26.0 per cent against the previous commercial exchange rate and an appreciation of 2.0 per cent against the previous financial exchange rate. Portugal raised the monthly ra te of devaluation of the escudo against the effec- tive rate to 0.75 per cent with effect from Decem- ber 2, 1981. Throughout 1981 Uruguay continued its policy of announcing exchange rates in advance. Monthly schedules published in the course of the year indicated a cumulative depreciation of the new peso against the U.S. dollar of 15.6 per cent. In February 1982 the Central Bank of Uruguay pub- lished the schedules for the period up to August 1982, which indicated a cumulative depreciation of 13.6 per cent du r ing the first eight months of 1982. Revaluations, which occurred relatively infre- quently, involved generally small adjustments in the external value of the currencies concerned. On March 24, 1981, following the devaluation of the Italian lira, Malta removed that currency from its basket. This resulted in an appreciation of the Malta pound by 0.5 per cent against the basket-determined exchange rate. On May 7, Malta modified its cur- rency basket (see below) again and changed the 10 Argen t ina had ceased at the beginning of 1980 to adiust the exchange rate of the peso in accordance with pre- announced schedules of daily rates. opening middle rate of the Malta pound to effect, in terms of the U.S. dollar, an appreciation of 3.7 per cent. On March 3, Seychelles revalued its exchange rate in terms of the SDR by 15 per cent. During the period under review, three members adjusted the currency baskets on which their exchange rates are based. Malta adjusted its cur- rency basket twice, removing the Italian lira and the Belgian f ranc from the basket and revising weights to reflect trade flows in 1980. When the Solomon Islands devalued in March 1981, the weights of the four currencies in the basket were changed to reflect settlement ra ther than trade pat- terns. In accordance with the practice in earlier years, Sweden made the annual re-evaluation of its currency weights with effect from April 1, basing the new weights on the average shares of major trad ing partners in Sweden's foreign trade dur ing the preceding five years; however, the weight for the U.S. dollar is equal to twice the trade share of the United States. Two countries that do not ma in ta in the exchange rate within announced margins notified the Fund that they were using currency baskets to guide them in the setting of exchange rates. Effective Feb- rua ry 10, 1981 Iceland began to let the ra te of the krona follow the trade-and-payments-weighted aver- age of exchange rates on a temporary basis. With effect from February 12 Yugoslavia permitted the exchange rate of the dinar to fluctuate within margins of 8 per cent around a basket consisting of currencies that reflect their relative importance in Yugoslavia's total payments. Within the margins, the exchange rate of the dinar is determined in accordance with certain indicators, such as relative producer prices and Yugoslavia's current account position. Of the countries whose currencies are pegged to country-specific baskets, only one adjusted the mar- gins around the peg. On July 22, 1981 Saudi Arabia announced that it was temporarily suspending the observance of the 7.25 per cent margins around the fixed ra te of the riyal to the SDR. In the course of 1981 new currencies were intro- duced by three members. On March 16 Equatorial Gu inea replaced the ekuele by a new currency, the epkwele, which was valued at par with the old currency. On August 8 Equatorial Guinea informed the Fund that the name of its currency had been changed to ekwele (in the singular) and bipkwele (in the p lu ra l ). On January 1 Iceland introduced a new monetary unit. Although the name, the krona, was retained for the new unit, its value is equal to one hundred times that of the old; the new krona 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS is divided into 100 aurar. On Ju ly 1 Maldives noti- fied the Fund that the official name of its currency was changed f rom the rupee to the r u f i y a a; the sub- sidiary un it is the laari. Dur ing the period under review, several exchange a r rangement changes other than those already noted were in t roduced. The People's Republic of China in troduced on Janua ry 1, 1981 an in ternal settle- ment rate of Y 2.8 = US$1 for all trade and trade- related transac t ions. The off ic ial rate, which is pegged to a basket of currencies that yielded an aver- age exchange ra te of Y 1.7050 = US$1 in 1981, remained in e f fect for all other invisible transactions and se t t lemen ts w i th nonres iden ts that are denomi- na ted in renm inb i. E f fec t ive May 1 Denma rk per- m i t ted fo re ign t ransac t ions be tween exchange dealers and commercial traders to be carried out at a rate agreed to by the par t ies involved; previously, the selling rates for ma jor currencies that were set at m idd ay by the cen t ral bank had to be used, whereas buy ing ra tes had been f ree. In early May the Un i ted States announced a re tu rn to a more limited concept of in t e rv en t ion, wh ich involved in t e rv en ing only when necessary to coun ter cond i t ions of d isorder in the m a rk e t; subsequen t ly, du r ing 1981 in te rven t ion did not take place. III. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices Imports and Import Payments During 1981 and early 1982, despite a fu r th er perceptible worsening of pro tec t ion ist pressures, the industrial countries avoided recourse to comprehen- sive import controls. As in the past, these pressures were concentrated in several specific sectors, most notably textiles, steel, automobiles, and footwear, and involved trade both between developing and indus tr ial countries and among the industrial countries. General balance of payments and employment d iff icu l t ies in some of the latter countries were viewed as the result of imbalances in bilateral trade with other indus- trial countries —an in terpre ta t ion that led to moun t ing pressures for direct bilateral contacts and actions to redress those imbalances. Although there were instances where policymakers in countries with large bilateral deficits began to resort to the bilateral approach, appeals to the established multilateral fo rums also became more frequen t, as evidenced by a number of complaints to the GATT filed by the EC and the United States. Nonetheless, trade action taken by the indus tr ial countries dur ing the period under review represented by and large a continuation of existing practices. Quantitative Import Controls11 In December 1981 the GATT Textiles Committee decided to extend, un t il July 31, 1986, the MFA that regulates international trade in textiles and cloth- ing. The text of the original arrangement was not changed, but the protocol implementing the extension contains understandings between the participants on 11 Restrictions on international trade in automobiles have recently taken the form of formal or informal export res tra in ts and are, therefore, reported in the section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below. 14 the concept of "dominant suppliers" and s tr ic ter terms of access for them as compared w i th other developing expor t ing countries .12 The unde r s tand ings also provide special te rms for new en tran ts, small suppliers, and cotton p roduc ing countries. These countries would normally not have restraints imposed on the ir exports, and in the event that restraints are being envisaged, coun tr ies f a l l i ng in to these categories w i ll be given more favorab le t rea tment than other expo r t ing countries. A l though safeguard measures may only be invoked by importing countries if a ma rket d i s rup t ion exists, or a real risk thereof, d iff i- culties had arisen in the past in the practical applica- tion of the concept of market disruption, and it was therefore stressed in renewing the agreement that the procedures for the settlement of disputes foreseen in the MFA would have to be fu l ly respected. Where hardsh ip was caused in impor t ing countries by sharp and substantial increases in imports, even when such imports were w i th in negotiated res t ra int levels, the Textiles Committee agreed that mu tu a l ly satisfactory solutions could be arrived at between the importing and exporting countries for res tra in ing imports, with equitable and quan t if iab le compensation for the exporting country. The Committee also agreed on various understandings regarding procedures to deal w i th f raud, circumvention of the agreement, adjust- ment policies and measures involving textile produc- tion, and the overall surve i l lance of the func t ion ing of the MFA. Throughout the period under review, sluggish com- petitive pressures and consumer demand for textile products contributed to a more stringent implementa- 12 Wh i le not exp l ic i t ly def ined, the concept of "dominant suppliers" includes Hong Kong, Korea, and Taiwan, though the latter is not a signatory to the MFA. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES tion of quantitative trade restrictions. The EC extended the voluntary restraint agreement with India for one year to the end of 1982. Similar under- standings on export restraints with Egypt, Hungary, Pakistan, and Poland were also extended for one year. In order to encourage the restructuring of its textile industry, France was authorized up to Sep- tember to exempt f rom EC treatment certain velvet fabrics originating in Korea. Similar authorizations were extended to Ireland, Italy, and the United Kingdom for a variety of manufac tured textile prod- ucts. A new three-year agreement was concluded with Thailand limiting ju te yarn exports to Italy. Following a rapid increase of unrestricted garment imports from Indonesia, which had caused the EC to impose in 1981 provisional quantitative limits for specific types of garments to specified EC member countries, the EC concluded a new agreement on garments with Indonesia in January 1982. In all, 28 bilateral agreements under the provisions of the MFA were in effect in early 1982 between the EC and signatories to the MFA and the People's Repub- lic of China. In addition, the "basket escalator" mechanism,13 which entails additional restrictions within existing res tra int agreements, had been used 150 times by the end of 1981 since its introduction in 1977 into agreements negotiated by the EC. More than 80 of these instances occurred in the 18 months since June 1980. The EC also negotiated additional protocols to its bilateral agreements with 20 exporting countries to make allowance for the changed situation in the wake of Greece's accession to the EC. In January 1982 the EC subjected to monitoring imports of certain textile products from member countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN)14 and extended monitoring of textile imports from Egypt, Malta, Portugal, and Spain. During 1981 the United States negotiated new bilat- eral textile agreements with Malaysia, Mauritius, and Poland and during the first quarter of 1982 with Brazil, Colombia, Haiti, Mexico, Pakistan, and Singa- pore. These new bilateral agreements constituted in most instances a continuation of existing agreements or a somewhat more favorable version for the export- 13 This mechanism, incorporated in the standard bilateral agreement between the EC and the exporting country, authorizes the EC Commission to ask the country to sus- pend its exports as soon as imports f rom that country exceed a given threshold for the EC. The EC then holds consul- tations with the supplier country for the purpose of negoti- ating a limit. If a limit cannot be mutually agreed, quanti- tative restrictions may be imposed unilaterally. 14 The members are Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand. ing countries. Canada announced the conclusion of new bilateral restraint agreements with 13 countries covering about 95 per cent of low-cost exports of textiles and clothing to Canada. Five-year arrange- ments were concluded w i th 10 suppliers (Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Philippines, Poland, Roman ia, Taiwan, and Thai- l and ), while one-year agreements were negotiated with Hong Kong, Hungary, and India. The Canadian Government also announced its intention to negotiate five-year agreements with the latter th ree suppliers as well as with Czechoslovakia, Pakistan, Singapore, and Sri Lanka. In terna t ional trade in steel and steel produc ts con- t inued to be subject to comprehensive import restraints in major industrial countries in view of declining utilization of installed capacity and the slow pace of structural ad jus tment in those countries. In June the EC extended the mandatory production quotas on most steel products, which were first imposed in October 1980, for a one-year period un t il June 30, 1982. As a result of the extension, about 60 per cent of the EC's steel ou tput remains subject to production quotas. In a related matter, the EC decided in July to fix export res tra in ts under bilateral arrangements with suppliers for 1981 at 12.5 per cent below the 1980 import levels. This implied a slight upward revision of quotas determined at the beginning of the year and reflected a less steep fall in demand than projected earlier. In January 1982 the arrange- men ts concerning the introduction of a quan t i ta t ive and pricing restraint for imports of steel products into the EC from Finland, Japan, Norway, and Sweden were renewed for 1982. In early 1982 the EC was in the process of conducting similar negotiations with 10 other countries with which agreements had been in effect in 1981, namely, Australia, Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Korea, Poland, Romania, and Spain. The arrangements for 1982 cover the same range of products as those for 1981 and call for a reduction of import quotas by 9.5 per cent in relation to 1980 imports (as compared with a reduction of 12.5 per cent negotiated for 1981). The strengthening of the U.S. dollar enhanced the com- petitiveness of steel imports into the United States. European steel producers, on the representation that the strengthening of the U.S. dollar permitted them to sell steel at prices below those of Japan and yet still abide by U.S. an t idump ing laws, requested pre- clearance (exemption from trigger prices) f rom the U.S. Department of Commerce. However, pre- clearance was denied to European steel products during 1981, and the preclearance practice was 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS actually abandoned altogether in November 1981. Dissatisfaction with the operation of the trigger- price mechanism (TPM ), which was supposed to expedite investigations of dumped or subsidized imports, led the U.S. steel industry in January 1982 to file more than 90 petitions with the Department of Commerce and the U.S. International Trade Com- mission (ITC) charging foreign steel exporters with "unfair trade practices," because steel exports to the United States were allegedly being dumped or sub- sidized by foreign governments. In February 1982, the ITC rejected more than half of the complaints because a preliminary investigation indicated that the imports had not caused, and were not likely to cause, material in ju ry to the U.S. steel industry. However, despite the large reduction in the number of cases being considered, the 38 cases on which the Depart- ment of Commerce and ITC investigations are continuing still cover the vast majority of the steel tonnage that was initially included in the petitions filed in January 1982. The Department of Commerce has also launched investigations into possible fraudu- lent practices, mostly involving sales of Japanese steel, aimed at circumventing the TPM. Additionally, antidumping investigations involving wire rods from Japan, Korea, and Yugoslavia and alloy tool steel from Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany were initiated in June. Among other industrial coun- tries, Canada's Antidumping Tribunal determined in May that imports of brass-coated steel from Belgium and Spain caused material injury to domestic industry. During 1981 imports of certain manufactured goods were subjected to "voluntary" export restraints. These are discussed in the section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below. Restrictions on the import of other selected items were introduced by several industrial countries. Austria subjected imports of videotape recorders from Japan to an annual quota of 8,500 units. Canada imposed an import quota on nonleather, nonrubber footwear. In October Iceland subjected imports of fishing vessels to a licensing requirement. In April Japan, for health reasons, prohibited for an indefinite period imports of ham, bacon, and sausage from the United Kingdom and in December reduced the beef import quota by 6.4 per cent for the second half of fiscal year 1981/82. Switzerland required prior licensing for imports of soap and detergents and their inputs. Several industrial countries relaxed quantitative restrictions on the import of other selected items. Australia abolished quotas on a number of textile, clothing, and footwear products from developing 16 countries in July. In November Canada abolished an import quota on leather footwear. In January the allocation of import licenses in New Zealand was converted to a tendering scheme for a range of con- sumer goods. Under EC legislation, the United Kingdom eased existing quotas on imports of certain goods (e.g., rubber footwear, patches, and pottery) from Eastern Europe. Under an agreement between the EC and Romania restrictions on radiograms and certain a lum inum products were abolished and restric- tions on other a lum inum products were suspended. In April the United States increased the import quota for peanuts, and in June simplified the procedures for obtaining licenses for high technology imports to be re-exported to state trading countries and allowed quotas on imports of footwear from Korea and Taiwan to lapse. In reaction to political developments in Poland, the United States adopted a number of sanctions against Poland and the U.S.S.R. in December. The United Kingdom and Argentina, in April 1982, for security reasons froze each other's assets and imposed restrictions on payments and transfers to, or on behalf of, residents of the other country. In April and May 1982, restrictions on trade with Argentina and related sanctions were imposed by the EC, the United States, and several other countries. Argen- tina also adopted measures affecting exports and imports. In regard to oil-exporting countries, in January Venezuela ceased to require import licenses for a number of chemical, textile, and other products. On the other hand, restrictions were introduced and intensified in some oil-exporting countries, in part due to domestic ou tput difficulties and, toward the end of the period under review, the weakening world demand for crude petroleum. In November the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya prohibited the importation of a number of items, mostly con- sumer goods. In Janua ry Nigeria added concentrated malt extracts and plastic pipes to the list of goods subject to import licenses. In March 1982 Nigeria temporarily suspended the issuance of letters of credit, while considering options for modifying its import system. In April the issuance of letters of credit was resumed; at the same time, imports of gaming machines, frozen chicken, and certain bat- teries were prohibited, and a number of items were added to the list requiring specific import licenses. Qatar and Saudi Arabia restricted the import of certain tobacco products for health reasons. A number of non-oil developing countries relaxed their import restrictions. As in previous years, where ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES liberalization was substantial, it tended to be a part of adjustment programs supported by the use of the Fund's resources. Chile l if ted all remaining import prohibitions. In April Colombia made some machinery freely importable. In December 1981 and January 1982 El Salvador transferred to the parallel market a large number of imports previously on a prohibited list or subject to prior import deposit requirements. Also in April, India added several items to the Open General License (OGL) system and expanded the Advance Licensing Scheme. In May Korea transferred a large number of items from the restricted to the automatic approval list. In February Morocco liberalized imports of a large number of items by shifting products to less restrictive lists. In February Pakistan increased value limits on the importation of machinery for nonrestricted industries. In July Pakistan also shifted a considerable number of items to less restrictive import lists and raised the value limits on certain machinery imports. The requirement that certain goods be imported only from Turkey was removed. Peru increased its sugar quota. The Syrian Arab Republic allowed the impor- tation of automobiles after several years of prohibi- tion. Thailand permitted the import of certain diesel engines subject to quota. Turkey abolished global import quotas accounting for about 12 per cent of total imports. In April Yugoslavia announced exten- sive shifts of commodities, in virtually all cases, to less restricted lists. The items involved covered a wide range of products including agricultural prod- ucts, raw materials, and consumer goods. The continuation for many non-oil developing countries of balance of payments difficulties led to an increase in the use of quantitative import controls —a development that was particularly evident in the group of Central American economies. As in 1980, automobiles were singled out for restrictive treatment in several countries. Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic prohibited their importation (the former temporar i ly), while Barbados lowered the quota on the value of automobile imports for 1981. In Bu rundi licensing for automobile imports was restricted; in Madagascar imports of new and used automobiles required ministerial authorization; and in Suriname automobile imports were restricted to authorized dealers. With regard to other imports, Barbados increased the number of items subject to quantitative restrictions and to licensing. Bolivia extended the prohibition of imports of manufactured goods that could be produced locally from public sector agencies to all importers. Colombia shifted a number of items to the import list requiring prior approval. In September Costa Rica prohibited the importation of a number of import categories and, temporarily, of capital goods not approved by the Central Bank. El Salvador required imports valued at US$200 or more to obtain prior registration by the Exchange Control Department and also prior approval if eligible for official foreign exchange. Haiti banned for two years the importation of a number of consumer prod- ucts, and the importation of certain other consumer items was made subject to licensing requirements. In April some restrictive measures were introduced by India; these included removal of products f rom the list of products importable under Open General License, tightening supplementary import licenses, and extending the list of canalized items. Mauritius subjected a large number of items to specific licenses, in many cases on the basis of established quotas. In several separate measures Mexico subjected many items to import licensing. Nicaragua required small border traders to obtain import licenses and special permits for each individual transaction. Peru added, on a net basis, a few items to its list of restricted imports. In March Portugal established quota limi- tations in value terms on imports of certain non- essential consumer products for the year starting April 1, 1981. The Syrian Arab Republic banned the importation of a number of luxury items, including perfumes, women's clothing, cigarettes, and air con- ditioners. On a more selective basis, certain imports were either banned (in Ecuador, Ivory Coast, Panama, and Thailand) or subjected to quotas (in the Domini- can Republic), prior authorization (in Ecuador, Gabon, and Pa raguay ), and licensing (in Barbados, Burundi, Fiji, Israel, Ivory Coast, and Thailand). Import Surcharges and Import Taxation Reflecting in part the continued difficult balance of payments and budgetary situations of non-oil devel- oping countries, recourse to across-the-board sur- charges and similar measures was more pronounced in the period under review. Malawi replaced its import deposit scheme with a 3 per cent surcharge on the c.i.f. value of imports in March; Peru intro- duced a 15 per cent surcharge on import ta r i f fs; South Africa subjected all imports except those under ta r i f fs regulated under particular GATT bindings, petroleum products, and those for government use to a 10 per cent surcharge; Sudan introduced a 10 per cent surcharge on virtually all imports in November; the Yemen Arab Republic subjected imports shipped on land without license to a surcharge; and in July Zimbabwe began levying a customs surtax of 5 per cent on almost all imports. Thailand introduced temporary surcharges on a few items. Portugal 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS extended its temporary import surcharges until the end of 1981. The Gambia, Mauritius, and St. Lucia also increased the ir reliance on general import taxes or stamp duties. With respect to other actions in the area of import taxation, ma jor industrial countries modified their tar iff preferences for developing countries, most notably to d i f fe ren t ia te the preferences granted in accordance with the exporting countries' level of development or competitiveness for specific products. The most significant change under the EC's new GSP, which was introduced for a ten-year period in January 1981, was the application of preferences on a d ifferen t ial basis, thereby sh if t ing preferences for most products from global quotas as in the past to ceilings for individual supplier countries. The size of country quotas is inversely related to the level of development of the beneficiary country. Criteria for determining the level of development include per capita gross national product and the share in EC imports of particular products exported by the coun- try concerned. However, imports from the least developed of the developing countries were not sub- jected to any quota limitations. The EC also added a few additional industrial and agricultural products to its GSP list. Japan, which had already granted du ty-free access w i thout quota limitation to most GSP imports from the least developed countries in April 1980, extended its GSP scheme in April 1981 for another ten-year period and modified it: the amount of imports subject to preferential treatment (ceiling) was enlarged by changing the base year for the calcu- lation of basic ceiling quotas. At the same time, how- ever, a system of differential treatment of beneficiaries was introduced under which the Government can exclude a specific import from a specific beneficiary of the GSP scheme when the imported product is judged to be sufficiently and lastingly competitive, and when it is foreseen that Japan's domestic industries would be seriously affected by that import. In 1981 and 1982 the United States added a number of items to the list of products eligible for GSP treatment. In March the United States extended cumulative treatment under the GSP to the Andean Group and the ASEAN, and in March 1982, to the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM ) .15 Also, a procedure 35 Cumulation allows two or more member countries of an eligible association to contribute jointly to the require- ment that at least 35 per cent of the value-added of the product in question originated in the beneficiary country. The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grena- dines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 18 referred to as "graduation" was introduced by the United States, under which GSP eligibility could be w i thdrawn selectively from cer ta in countries on a product-by-product basis. The objective of the measure was to expand export oppo r tun i t ies for the mid-level and less advanced developing countries, by reducing such benefits for the more advanced devel- oping countries. Although a specific formula was not provided to determine graduation, the factors to be considered were (1) a coun try's level of economic development; (2) its competitive level in the par- ticular product markets; (3) the overall economic interests of the United States; and (4) the effect that GSP treatment for a country was having on domestic producers of competing articles. It was announced that five more advanced developing countries and territories (Brazil, Hong Kong, Korea, Mexico, and Ta iwan) would be subject to graduation under the GSP in 1981, affec t ing a total of 29 items with a trade value of US$510 million. In continuation of its graduation policy, the United States at the end of March 1982 canceled GSP benef i ts for imports amounting to US$651 million in 1981 from the same five suppliers plus Israel and Singapore. Australia and New Zealand granted du ty-free and unrestricted access to most products from the other islands of the South Pacific Forum16 in Janua ry. Also in January Australia and Austria deleted Greece, fol- lowing the latter's accession to the EC, from their lists of GSP beneficiaries. Among other tar iff measures taken by industrial countries, Japan reduced import duties on manu- fac tured tobacco products and certain motor vehicle par ts and accessories in April. In December Japan decided to advance ta r i ff reductions under the MTN agreement by two years, implying the completion of a three-year schedule of tariff cuts by April 1982.17 Spain extended the temporary across-the-board import du ty reductions introduced in April 1980 throughout 1981, and granted preferen t ial tariff trea tment to goods produced in the People's Republic of China. The United Kingdom raised the duties on motor vehicles and certain luxu ry goods in January 16 The Cook Islands, Fiji, K ir iba t i, N au ru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Western Samoa, and Vanua tu. 17 Other impo r t - fac i l i ta t ing measures announced by Japan at that time were (a) the establishment of a temporary fo re ign currency lending fac i l i ty, (b) interest subsidization for stockpiling of imported rare metals, (c) an increase in government-owned oil stocks by approximately 1.5 million kiloliters in fiscal year 1981/82, and (d) improved import inspection procedures. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES 1982. Selective du ty increases were also effected in Australia and New Zealand. Several developing countries lowered their import tariffs during the period under review. In April Argentina reduced import duties at the highest ranges of its tariff structure and the spread between maxi- mum and minimum ta r i f fs was also reduced. Brazil empowered the Customs Policy Commission to include a zero rate among the schedule of rates it could apply. In January and February Colombia lowered import duties on some Pharmaceuticals, rubber, machinery, and other products. In May, June, and November additional modifications in the tariff structure were introduced, which generally lowered the rates. In February Mexico announced exemptions of up to 100 per cent of import duties for capital goods inputs not produced domestically. In addition, modifications of duties on a large number of imports were introduced throughout the review period. Pakistan authorized the importation of machines for certain industries duty free. In February Paraguay reduced import duties for automotive parts and accessories. In August the tariff benefits of the regional trade regime were extended to imports of a wide range of durable and nondurable consumer goods. Throughout 1981 Peru continued with its tariff reform initiated in late 1979, lowering the unweighted average tariff fu r ther from 35 per cent at the end of 1980 to 31 per cent at the end of 1981. In January 1982 a un i fo rm value-added tax, appli- cable also to imports, replaced a sales tax which was levied at varying rates on d ifferent types of imports. The Philippines substantially reduced ta r i f fs on a large number of items in January as the first step of a comprehensive program to reform the tariff structure. Other countries that reduced import tariffs on a selective basis included Bolivia, Dominican Republic, Korea, Morocco, Nepal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Uruguay, and Venezuela. A number of countries increased import tariffs. In April Argentina suspended a tar iff reform program based on tariff cuts that had been initiated in January 1979. In February Ecuador substantially increased tariffs on automobile imports but exempted taxis from customs duties. In July import duties on a number of tariff items were also increased. Haiti adopted a unified system of import tar iffs, increasing in the process ta r i f fs on luxury products. In April Honduras increased, with some exemptions for essential products, the ad valorem import tariff rates by 10 percentage points for final consumer goods and by 5 percentage points for other goods. As part of an import reform program, Kenya increased ta r i f fs for a number of import items in June. In March Malawi increased specific duties on con- sumer and luxury products. In September Nicaragua, through an emergency decree, placed taxes ranging f rom 30 per cent to 100 per cent on imports of luxury products. Seychelles raised customs duties on motor vehicles and certain luxury goods. In November Sudan raised import tar iff collections from certain commodities by changing the conversion rate for customs valuation purposes from LSd 0.5 = US$1 to LSd 0.9 = US$1. In September Suriname abol- ished preferential import duties for imports from the EC countries. In June Uganda replaced specific duties with ad valorem duties and substantially reduced the number of d i f fe rent rates. Yugoslavia reduced the value of duty-free imports that may be brought back by returning resident travelers. Import duties on tobacco products were raised by Bahrain, Kuwa i t, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates. Other selective increases in import duties were effected in Iran, Israel, Mauritius, Morocco, Pakistan, and Saudi Arabia. Domestic employment problems and more aggres- sive marketing on the part of exporting countries led to increased recourse by some industrial countries to antidumping and countervailing measures in the period under review. In September the EC con- firmed an an t idump ing du ty on certain polyester fabrics from the United States. The United States revoked an t idump ing and countervailing duties in a number of cases, including an t idump ing duties on potassium chloride f rom Canada and countervailing duties on handbags from Korea, on bu t ter from Denmark, and on certain cheeses f rom Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland. During the period January-May an antidumping duty was levied on imports of menthol from the People's Republic of China. In February precipitated barium carbonate f rom the Federal Republic of Germany was subjected to an antidumping duty. Also, a Japanese request to revoke a 1971 an t idump ing order against Japanese television sets was denied; consequently, monitoring of such impor ts for possible dump ing continued. Advance Import Deposits As in 1980, there was a fu r th er decrease in mem- bers' reliance on advance import deposit schemes. Among the industrial countries Iceland reintroduced in Janua ry 1982 the 35 per cent deposit require- ment on fu rn i tu re imports that had been eliminated at the end of 1980. Italy imposed in May a tem- porary advance deposit scheme on most payments 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS abroad, with 30 per cent of the amount of the trans- action required to be posted in a noninterest-bearing account for 90 days. Specific exemptions were allowed (e.g., wheat, petroleum, small transactions, and scheduled fore ign debt paymen t s ). Originally, the requ irement was scheduled to lapse af ter four months. However, while the coverage of the scheme was gradually reduced, the advance deposit require- ment was terminated in late February 1982. In the course of 1981 the United States imposed cash deposit requ iremen ts on imports of specified wax from the German Democratic Republic, of sodium gluconate f rom EC countries, and of truck trailer axles f rom Hungary. Among developing countries, advance import deposit requirements were eliminated or eased in Bolivia, Costa Rica, Ghana, Indonesia, Malawi, Nicaragua, and Pakistan. Egypt in July allowed deposit requirements for imports of foods tu f fs and raw materials to be met in domestic currency rather than in foreign exchange. Greece reduced the rates on its rema in ing two advance import deposits by 25 per cent each on Janua ry 1, 1981 and on Janua ry 1, 1982. Kenya reduced the retention period for advance import deposits in November. Through- out 1981 Morocco exempted a number of items f rom the 25 per cent import deposit requirement. Paraguay exempted f rom the advance import deposit requirement a number of items from nonneighboring countries. Advance import deposit requ iremen ts were intro- duced or tightened by five countries. Bangladesh prescribed margin deposits for letters of credit rang- ing from 5 per cent to 75 per cent, depending on import products. In April 1982 Nigeria introduced advance deposits, ranging from 25 per cent to 250 per cent, on all imports. Somalia requ ired a 100 per cent advance deposit on letters of credit for private sector imports in October. The Syrian Arab Repub- lic subjected all private imports to deposit require- men ts in April. In February Ecuador tightened the prior import deposit requirement by increasing the amount of the deposit, extending the coverage of the requ irement to goods obtained on a barter basis, by lengthening the retention period, and by with- draw ing permission for meeting up to 25 per cent of the requirement in bonds. Other Measures Affecting Import Payments Regulations governing the terms of import pay- ments were relaxed in several countries dur ing the period under review. In the course of 1981 Argen- tina exempted a number of items from the minimum 20 wa i t ing period of 180 days between the dates of ship- ment and se t t lemen t. Items exempted were imports from countries of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA) of fertilizers, printed materials, and cer ta in automobile imports. Chile ceased to requ ire impo rt registration for imports exceeding US$10,000. Colombia eased the authorization of licenses for certain nonreimbursable imports and waived consular invoices on all imports. Greece delegated the au tho r i ty to approve most impor ts to commercial banks. Ind ia allowed au thor ized dealers to approve certain trade transac t ions. The Ivory Coast raised the m in imum value for the manda tory presh ipment inspection of imports. Peru simplified adm in is t ra t ive procedures govern ing fore ign t rade transactions. The Philippines allowed add i t ional bank ing un i ts to provide import f inanc ing under special arrangemen ts. Portugal increased the limit on import t ransac t ions exempt from prior registra- tion. Singapore e l im ina ted import financing limits pe r ta in ing to finance houses. Somalia allowed pri- vate importers to open letters of credit for impo r t ing items not exclusively controlled by specified agencies. South Africa permitted authorized dealers to give tender and pe r fo rmance guaran tees on behalf of residents and raised the l im it on exchange sales in respect of advance paymen ts for imports. Viet Nam created a number of regional and local t rade organi- zations which were allowed to earn foreign exchange en t i t lemen ts and to use them for approved imports. Zaire issued a list of commodities that could be imported w i thout recourse to the foreign exchange resources of the bank ing system and liberalized the adm in is tra t ive procedures for imports of less than a certain value. Regulations governing the terms of import pay- men ts were tightened in a number of countries. Afghan is tan required importers of goods for re-expor- tation to obtain foreign exchange in the money bazaar and also raised the surcharge on foreign exchange sales by Da Afghan is tan Bank. Bangla- desh restricted remittances for goods imported on deferred payments terms except with the specific permission of the central bank. Bolivia required pr iva te banks to obtain explicit au thor iza t ion from the Central Bank for all sales of fore ign exchange and for foreign financing of imports. All importers had to obtain au thor iza t ion from the Ministry of Finance on the basis of credit documents and invoices and prior tax clearance. Ecuador ceased to provide exchange at the official rate for advance payment for imports. Honduras restricted import prepay- ments and required central bank authorization for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES paymen ts exceeding US$5,000. Ivory Coast required the purchase of foreign exchange for imports to be made either on the settlement da te or when the required downpayment was made. In addition, restrictions were placed on spot hedging operations and fo rwa rd transactions. Malaysia required all gov- ernment transactions with the United Kingdom to be approved by the Prime Minister's Office. Nicaragua required au thor iza t ion for all imports, including those settled w i th foreign exchange obtained in the parallel marke t. Papua New Guinea halved the settlement period for import paymen ts to 90 days. Zambia suspended commercial banks' au thor i ty to approve applications for import paymen ts and trans- ferred it to the Bank of Zambia, whose authorization was required for the opening of letters of credit and other import financing. Later, all imports into Zambia were required to be financed by letters of credit with m in imum terms of 90 days. State Trading In contrast to the recent past, on balance, members reduced their reliance on state monopoly trading during the period under review. Guinea limited the scope of state trad ing to cement, Pharmaceuticals, educational supplies, fue l, steel, sugar, cooking oil, and spare parts, and raw materials for the state enter- prises, which were given greater autonomy in their financial operations including the programming of exports and imports. Lao People's Democratic Repub- lic allowed, with certain exceptions, foreign trade by p r iva te traders. Portugal liberalized the state monop- oly on grain imports. Somalia abolished the exporting monopoly on livestock and two importing monopolies for textiles and household appliances and for building materials, respectively. Sri Lanka per- mitted private sector imports of rice for the first time in many years, and Sudan discontinued the state monopoly on the importation of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar. On the other hand, Algeria gave to two state enterprises the monopoly on imports of metal construction materials and of chemicals, respectively. Seychelles extended the monopoly rights of the Sey- chelles National Commodity Company to imports of a variety of essential food items. Exports and Export Proceeds During 1981 a number of countries, both industrial and developing, introduced new or adapted existing measures to encourage export expansion. New fiscal measures to promote exports were taken predominantly by developing countries in Latin America. In August Argentina extended its rebate scheme (reembolsos) to various agricultural and some manufactured exports, replacing most of the temporary export taxes introduced in April in con- junc t ion with the depreciation of the peso. In April Brazil reintroduced the system of tax credits for industrial exports. Initially the rate of the tax credits was planned to be gradually reduced from 15 per cent of export value in 1981 to 9 per cent in 1982, and to 3 per cent during the first half of 1983. In Novem- ber it was announced that the planned reduction would occur in stages in 1982 to reach 9 per cent by the end of 1982. Colombia increased tax credits (certificado de abono tributario, or CAT) for selected agricultural and manufac tured exports, while those for a number of export products were abolished or reduced. To facilitate access to the max imum allowable subsidy on nontraditional exports, Ecuador relaxed the criteria used to determine the amount of subsidy provided in the form of tax credit certificates. Ghana raised the export bonus from 10 per cent to 20 per cent of proceeds surrendered. In July Pakistan introduced a compensatory rebate on the f.o.b. value of exports for hand-knotted woolen carpets and leather goods. Peru reduced the basic rates of tax payment certificates (certificados de reintegro tributario, or CERTEX) and excluded cer- tain products f rom the scheme, while CERTEX at the basic rates were granted for a number of products. The requirement introduced in February that exporters must use Peruvian means of transportation in order to qualify for CERTEX benefits was abolished. Uruguay extended the coverage of tax credit cer- tificates to a wide range of manufactured products and postponed the scheduled reduction in tax credits for exports to November 30, 1982. A number of countries modified licensing systems aimed at promoting exports. In March Bangladesh revised the Export Performance License Scheme under which additional import licenses are issued to exporters of nontraditional products by raising license entitlements. In April India announced that additional licenses would be issued to qualified export houses to import goods on the restricted or prohibited lists up to a specified limit and that the Advance Licensing Scheme for duty-exempt imports and exports would be simplified and expanded. Several member countries abolished or reduced export taxes and duties. In August 1981 Argentina eliminated most of the export taxes introduced in April following the devaluation of the peso. In April Brazil abolished the export taxes on coffee. On several occasions Canada adjusted taxes on exports of crude oil and hydrocarbon equivalents. Colombia 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS reduced the ad valorem tax on coffee exports and in September increased the retention rate (retention) for exports of excelso coffee. The Dominican Repub- lic introduced a tax discount on the f.o.b. value of exports. Ecuador reduced export taxes on cocoa and coffee while shifting f rom an ad valorem to a sliding- scale tax system. In January India exempted instant coffee from export duties and reduced the export duty on leather; in June the list of export products eligible for du ty drawbacks was expanded, while the rates of drawback were raised for certain products. In June Mauritius exempted sugar exports from an increase in the surcharge on indirect taxes and exempted imported inputs used by certain export industries from import duties. In March Mexico eliminated export duties on a large number of tariff items. Paraguay reduced taxes and stamp duties on exports of f ru i ts and vegetables by 50 per cent. As part of the program to phase out taxes on traditional exports by 1983, Peru in February reduced taxes on mining exports, to be followed by fur ther reductions, in 1982. Sri Lanka reduced the export duty on rubber in July, abolished the export duty on coconut oil in August, and reduced the specific export duties on bulk tea and packaged tea in November, and the Yemen Arab Republic abolished all export taxes in May. Several countries imposed new or raised existing taxes or duties on exports for revenue or domestic supply reasons. In some cases export taxes were imposed to reduce windfall profits that would accrue to exporters following devaluation. Afghanistan imposed an exchange tax on exports of raisins to the U.S.S.R. In April Argentina imposed export taxes on a wide range of agricultural products, following the devaluation of the peso, but removed most of these taxes and granted rebates (reembolsos) in August and October; it also applied du ty on all exports not eligible for rebates. In Brazil exports of a number of products to the United States, includ- ing textiles, footwear, and leatherware, became sub- ject to taxes. In Janua ry India increased the export du ty on groundnuts. An export duty on onyx blocks and boulders was introduced in Pakistan. In July Somalia imposed an ad valorem tax on livestock exports, following the devaluation of the Somali shilling, and Sri Lanka replaced the specific export du ty on coconut products by sliding-scale export duties in November. Uganda increased the duty on coffee exports in June, and in October changed the collection of the export duties on coffee f rom an ad valorem basis to an arrangement whereby the Treasury would receive the difference between the 22 export price in local currency and the cost of pur- chasing and ma rke t ing the coffee. OECD member countries p a r t i c ip a t ing in the Arrangement on Guidelines for Officially Supported Export Credits, which entered into effect on April 1, 1978, agreed to an in te r im increase in m in imum in te rest rates of 2.5 percentage points, except for credits in the m a t u r i ty range of f rom 5 to 10 years to the group of "relatively poor countries" where the increase was 2.25 percentage points. A special pro- vision allowed the official export credit agency in any pa r t ic ipa t ing coun try to charge a ra te of not less than 9.25 per cent for officially supported credits in currenc ies w i th market in te rest rates below the lowest m in imum rate pe rm i t ted under the guidelines (i.e., 10 per c en t ). The revised arrangement took effect on November 16 and was subject to review before May 15, 1982. A number of countries provided or modified exist- ing preferential financing facilities for exporters. In September the Austrian National Bank increased the overall amount of export financing on preferential terms by raising the ceiling on rediscounting export promotion bills at the National Bank and by pro- viding additional resources to the Austrian Export Fund for open market operations. With a view to matching concessional financing by other countries, Canada introduced a scheme in January under which a standard loan offered by the Export Development Corporation (EDC) at the market interest rate is supplemented by a low interest rate loan from the Government. New facilities aimed at assisting small and medium-sized exporters were also introduced in July to purchase promissory notes issued to exporters by foreign buyers. The agreement between the National Bank of Switzerland and four major banks, under which the banks were given preferential rediscounting facilities for long-term export credits, expired in May. In February the United Kingdom introduced a new scheme for the financing of export credits on concessional terms. Among developing countries, Argentina liberalized financing and pre- financing lines of credit for nontraditional exports. Colombia increased the credit line available to the Export Promotion Fund (PROEXPO) for the dis- counting of letters of credit of exporters while rais- ing the rediscount rates. The rediscount rate of PROEXPO, on the other hand, was reduced. In Hon- duras the Central Bank was authorized to contract short-term foreign financing, either directly or in agreement with the commercial bank, in an amount not exceeding US$50 million for the purpose of pro- viding pre-export financing for coffee and sugar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES Pakistan modified its Export Credit Finance Scheme by extending the monitoring period for exporters from four to six months. As in previous years, some countries introduced or adapted their system of exchange and export credit guarantee arrangements. Among the industrial coun- tries, Switzerland extended the scheme for insuring exporters against exchange rate risks, originally sched- led to expire on September 30, 1981, until August 31, 1983 and modified the scheme by increasing the pro- portion of exchange rate losses to be borne by the exporter, depending on the currency. The system under which exporters were permitted, since Decem- ber 1978, to unwind up to 40 per cent of their for- ward exchange commitments from export proceeds without a loss expired on November 30, 1981. In the United Kingdom a scheme providing for guaran- teed exchange rates for exporters during the period between the submission of an export bid and the awarding of a contract was introduced. On Decem- ber 24, in conjunction with the unification of the commercial and financial foreign exchange mar- kets, Argentina canceled its exchange rate guarantee schemes but provided for contracts already entered into to be honored by the Central Bank. The Israel Foreign Trade Risks Insurance Company introduced an export insurance facility covering deviations in domestic currency costs relative to movements of the exchange rate for the Israel shekel against five major foreign currencies (deutsche mark, French franc, Netherlands guilder, pound sterling, and U.S. do l lar); the coverage of the scheme was restricted to domestic value added. Thailand extended the maximum period for the rediscount of export bills for rice, maize, and tapioca for the period ending June 30, 1982. In Uruguay the Central Bank announced in September that the exchange ra te guarantee program was to be terminated. In the area of export credit guarantees, Canada provided, along with the new export financing facili- ties mentioned above, insurance to cover (1) pos- sible losses by commercial banks in financing export bills, and (2) risks of a political nature incurred by exporters who could not obtain adequate information relating to foreign buyers. Regulations governing the surrender of export pro- ceeds were tightened in several countries. In May, along with other exchange control measures, France shortened the surrender time by requiring exporters to redeem af ter one month the foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports delivered after May; in March 1982 this period was further reduced to 15 days. Afghanistan required that 50 per cent of the proceeds f rom exports to the U.S.S.R. be surrendered to Da Afghanistan Bank. In June Argentina required that the proceeds from traditional exports, the shipping permits of which were dated after June 22, be brought into the country at the time of shipment and that those from nontraditional exports be repatriated within 180 days; foreign exchange proceeds for both types of export had to be surrendered within 15 days from the time limits. The time period allowed for repatri- ation was extended to 90 days for certain exports. The People's Republic of China required all govern- ment and trade units to remit by March 1, 1981 any foreign exchange held abroad. In March Costa Rica announced that export proceeds had to be surrendered to the Central Bank within 15 days from the date of approval of the export license. Haiti introduced in August a requirement that the proceeds from major export commodities and private transfers be sur- rendered. In September Honduras required that all export proceeds be surrendered within 90 days fol- lowing the negotiation of documents. Nicaragua introduced a penalty, in the form of revocation of export licenses, for failure to surrender proceeds from exports, while abolishing the requirement that private exporters provide a bank guarantee of 30 per cent of the export value. In January Peru introduced a privileged surrender requirement regime for exports by foreign petroleum companies and phased out the issuing of 90-day nonnegotiable exchange certificates against specified portions of exchange surrendered from certain traditional exports. In December Uganda began charging a special rate of interest of 5 per cent above the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR) on export proceeds not surrendered by the com- mercial banks within three business days. In August Zambia required authorized dealers in foreign exchange to surrender to the Bank of Zambia all foreign exchange receipts retained in correspondent accounts. From October all exports from Zambia had to be made against irrevocable letters of credit. Surrender requirements were liberalized in a few countries. In April Uruguay eliminated the surrender requirement for export receipts, and in August the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen allowed importers of automobiles that were financed by their own foreign exchange to retain the proceeds from the re-exportation of automobiles. Quantitative restrictions on exports were abolished or relaxed in several countries, but increased use of restrictive licensing requirements and recourse to "voluntary" export restraint were also observed dur- ing the period under review. Industrial countries lifted the ban on exports to Iran. Japan terminated 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS the prohibition of exports of certain fuel oil imposed in 1979, and New Zealand lifted the restrictions on exports of feedgrains to the U.S.S.R. The United States removed in October quotas on exports of refined petroleum products which were imposed in December 1973 and lifted in April the restrictions on exports of food grains to the U.S.S.R., which were imposed in January 1980. Among developing coun- tries Brazil abolished quotas on exports of soybean products. Pakistan lifted export prohibitions on 18 agricultural commodities and pig iron and exempted certain commodity groups f rom quota restrictions. Sri Lanka removed the restrictions on exports of coconut imposed in 1979. Thailand lifted the quota on exports of maize to noncontract markets and of tapioca but reimposed the quota on the latter for the period January-August 1982 for exports to the EC. It also lifted the prohibition on exports of ju te fiber, discontinued the prior approval requirement for rice exports, reduced rice export premiums, and reduced the reserve requirement for rice exports. Trinidad and Tobago lifted the ban on trade with Zimbabwe. A number of countries tightened or introduced licensing requirements during the period under review. In November the United Kingdom announced changes in the Export of Goods (Control) Order 1978, which involved greater restrictions on exports controlled for strategic or security purposes. Thailand subjected to licensing requirements textile exports to a number of industrial countries and coffee exports to all coun- tries, the latter in conformity with the International Coffee Agreement. Yugoslavia added some items to the list of exports subject to licensing requirements while removing other items from the list. A number of voluntary export restraint agreements were concluded in 1981. Japan announced in advance levels of exports of automobiles to Belgium, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and the United States. The limit on exports to the United States would be in effect for a period of three years beginning April 1, 1981. Dur- ing the first year of the restraint, exports of passenger cars to the United States were limited to 1.68 million units (7.7 per cent below the level of the preced- ing 12-month period). According to the original announcement, during the second year exports were to be limited to not more than 116.5 per cent of the total actually exported during the first year of restraint. However, in March 1982 Japan announced that exports of passenger cars in the second year would be restricted to the first year level (1.68 mil- lion un i ts ). During the third year of the restraint, the volume of exports would be monitored on a 24 mon th ly basis. In March 1981 Japan informed Canada that exports of passenger cars during the period April 1, 1981 to March 31, 1982 would be maintained at 5.8 per cent below the level of fiscal year 1980/81. The communication to the Benelux countries stated that the export of passenger cars in 1981 would not exceed the 1980 level. Japan also informed the Federal Republic of Germany that exports of passenger cars to that market would not be more than 10 per cent higher than in 1980. In addition to these actions, Japanese and U.K. auto- mobile producers continued to hold regular consul- tations, and Japanese exporters exercised restraint in their shipments to the United Kingdom. Japan agreed to limit exports of televisions to the Federal Republic of Germany to below the 1980 level. Following consultations between Japan and New Zealand, the latter agreed to reduce vo lun ta r i ly exports of compound bu t ter to Japan by about 10 per cent from the 1980 level. In the area of state trading, Guinea allowed pri- vate traders to buy and export (or resell) agricultural products and allowed public enterprises autonomy in their financial operations. Peru eliminated a monop- oly over exports of certain m in ing products, and Somalia abolished the Livestock Development Agency (an exporting agency ). Sri Lanka allowed the pri- vate sector to engage in the exportation of sheet rub- ber which, since 1952, had been the monopoly of the Commission of Commodity Purchase. In Somalia the required ratio of advance deposits for exports, other than those financed under letter-of-credit arrangements, was raised. Current Invisibles During 1981 a number of member countries relaxed existing regulations relating to current invis- ibles. Following the trend in recent years, changes in regulations were mainly those affecting foreign exchange allowances for various types of travel. Measures affecting other categories of invisible pay- ments included payments relating to services per- formed by nonresidents and transfers of income accruing to nonresidents, such as profits, dividends, rent, interest, royalties, and pensions. In a number of cases such paymen ts were channeled through a secondary exchange market. None of the major industrial countries introduced restrictions on pay- ments and transfers for current invisible transactions during the period under review. However, several developing countries introduced new restrictions or intensified existing restrictions on payments for invisi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES bles to relieve balance of payments difficulties or, in some instances, to prevent unauthorized capital transfers. Limits on payments for current invisibles trans- actions were eased by several countries. Austria and the Netherlands Antilles raised the limits on outward payments for certain residual invisibles items subject to licensing. Denmark raised the limit beyond which individual transactions and remittances became sub- ject to exchange control. El Salvador relaxed the restrictions introduced in 1980 on the use of foreign currency deposits in the banking system to permit the transfer of funds abroad for specified invisible payments. Korea expanded the list of invisible pay- ments eligible for automatic approval. In Pakistan the procedure for granting foreign exchange to cover expenses arising f rom the establishment of business offices abroad was simplified and the annual limit on such allowances was raised, with provision for additional amounts subject to specific approval. Spain raised the limit on payments that may be made for any purpose w i thout supporting documents. Several countries increased exchange allocations for travel. In Iceland the basic foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel was increased. Jamaica raised the daily limit on foreign exchange allowances for business travel to the United States and to Euro- pean countries. In Mauritania exchange allowances for business travel were established at different levels for African, European, and other destinations. In Morocco the daily and overall foreign exchange allow- ances for business travel abroad by exporters was raised. South Africa raised the basic allowance for tourist travel and the additional allowance that was granted for business travel. Swaziland doubled the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel. The Syrian Arab Republic also increased foreign exchange allowances for travel, and Greece raised the annual tourist allowance for travel to EC member countries. Pakistan removed the daily limit on foreign exchange allowances for tourist travel abroad and retained the limit on foreign exchange allocation for private travel applied every two years, regardless of the number of days spent abroad. The daily and overall limits on foreign exchange allowances for business travel were also raised. In the Philippines allowances for non- business travel to various destinations were increased substantially, and a system of differential allowances for business travel, depending on whether or not the firm had foreign exchange earnings, was introduced. Foreign exchange allowances for studies abroad were raised in Cyprus, Greece, and India. India also raised certain exchange allowances for students attend- ing foreign universities. In El Salvador exchange allowances provided at the official exchange rate for public sector employees studying abroad were increased, and an additional amount was granted for those accompanied abroad by family members. Authorization for official foreign exchange was also granted for medical and hospital expenses already incurred without the 100 per cent prior deposit requirement introduced in 1980. Nigeria lifted the restriction applying to secondary education abroad and provided foreign exchange allowances. A number of countries tightened regulations gov- ern ing allocations of foreign exchange for travel arid other invisible payments. In August Costa Rica suspended the sale of foreign exchange in the bank- ing market for purposes of travel. In Ecuador a max imum foreign exchange allowance for travel was established, depending on the destination. El Salva- dor imposed a limit on payments for personal services e f fec ted through the parallel marke t. Ghana raised the tax on exchange sales for travel abroad but intro- duced a lower rate for remittances to students. In September Guatemala tightened a number of pay- men ts for invisibles, including the installation and mon th ly allowance for students, the allowance for nonbusiness and business travel, and the monthly l im i ts on fam i ly maintenance. In addition, the guar- an tee deposit on exchange purchases for travel abroad (except business and official travel) was raised; the limit beyond which the deposit must be lodged on the fu ll amount of the exchange purchase was, however, lowered. The in i t ial exchange allow- ance for medical expenses abroad was withdrawn. Madagascar tightened foreign exchange allocations for fore ign travel by reducing the amount of allow- ance for tourist travel and by establishing an annual l im it on allowances for business travel. Nigeria reduced the basic foreign exchange allowance for tou r ist and business travel and abolished the allow- ance for tourist travel by children under 16. In Zam- bia nonresidents were required to purchase tickets in foreign exchange and to settle hotel bills in foreign exchange or in kwacha, provided that evidence of conversion of foreign exchange into kwacha had been presented. Zimbabwe reduced the limits on foreign exchange allowances for tourist travel by applying the annual limits to a two-year period, retroactive to Janua ry 1, 1981. Restrictions on certain transactions associated with travel were liberalized in some countries. India raised the limit on the value of articles purchased with foreign exchange or with rupees acquired by the sale of foreign exchange that foreign tourists 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS could freely take out of the country; silverware, sub- ject to certain limits, was also allowed to be exported on the same basis. Swedish residents, while abroad, were allowed to open foreign exchange accounts, provided that such accounts were closed at the ter- mination of their stay. In Yugoslavia, sales of domestically manufac tured goods were exempted from turnover taxes if such goods were purchased with dinars obtained by sales of foreign currency held in foreign exchange accounts or foreign exchange savings deposits; such tax exemptions were also available to foreigners if the purchases were made in dinars obtained from the sale of foreign currency to an authorized bank. Other regulations a f fec t ing payments for invisibles that were liberalized included remittances for family maintenance, salary transfers, and remittances of nonresident income, such as profits, dividends, inter- est, pensions, royalties, and insurance proceeds. Authorized dealers in Bangladesh were permitted to pay interest on balances in the accounts of foreign missions. In the Dominican Republic remittances of dividends on certain foreign investments were exempted from prior local currency deposits. Nigeria changed the basis of computing permissible profit remittances by foreign firms operating under tech- nical assistance and management contracts; for new companies a lump-sum remittance was permitted. Nigeria also announced that payments for royalties would generally be based on the volume of sales instead of profits, and royalties would be subject to a max imum of 1 per cent of sales value. Peru granted authorization for foreign firms to remit more than 20 per cent of profits and dividends with respect to investments that generate employment in undevel- oped areas or help diversify exports and permitted the t rans fer of pensions up to US$600 a month. Restrictions were lifted on transfers of certain rental income of nonresidents in Rwanda, South Africa, and Swaziland. South Africa also increased the por- tion of nonresident directors' fees (including fees earned by emigrants) eligible for transfer abroad and the limit on technical service payments to non- residents working in South Africa for certain specific purposes and on payments to specified nonresidents, such as artists, entertainers, and sportsmen. The use of funds in blocked accounts by former emigrants visiting the country was also liberalized. In Sweden interest payments were allowed on foreign exchange accounts for up to 60 days, provided that the funds were deposited for at least 7 days. In August Thai- land extended until the end of the year the tax holi- day for interest payments on foreign loans, which 26 was originally scheduled to be terminated on Sep- tember 30 and to apply to loans w i th an original ma tu r i ty exceeding 12 mon ths; the extension covered loans of all ma tur i t ies. The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen increased the limit on the amount that fore ign residents doing business were allowed to remit abroad for fam i ly ma in tenance. Also foreign residents employed in the public sector were allowed to remit the ir entire savings on depa r tu re at the end of their contract. The People's Republic of China, Gua tema la, and Zaire tightened restrictions on t rans fe rs of income abroad. Rem i t tances of salaries and other income earned in the People's Republic of China by foreign employees of jo int ven tu res were limited to 50 per cent. Ghana reduced the tax on foreign exchange sales for education abroad. Foreign residents with fam i l ies residing in Guatemala were allowed to remit abroad the ir salaries up to a max imum mon th ly limit; if all or pa rt of the fam i ly resided abroad, a higher l im it was applied. A mon th ly l im it was also estab- lished on t rans fe rs abroad by foreign residents of their severance pay and the proceeds f rom the sale of their property in Gua tema la upon the ir pe rmanent depa r tu re f rom the country. In N icaragua the cate- gory of receipts from invisibles that may be sold in the parallel ma rket was expanded to include receipts f rom tour ist and business travel, fam i ly remittances, g i f ts up to a limit, and certain l i fe insurance proceeds the p rem iums of which were paid through the parallel ma rke t. Embassies were required to sell all of their foreign currency inflow at the official exchange ra te; 50 per cent of the wages of foreign-recruited employ- ees was then repaid in foreign exchange at the offi- cial rate. In Zaire monthly t rans fe rs of expa tr ia te salaries in 1981 were limited to amoun ts authorized in 1980, and the limits on monthly transfers for newly h ired expatriates were to be established by the Bank of Zaire. Zimbabwe reduced the annual limit on rem i t tances of income acc ru ing to assets owned by em igran ts and liberalized the remittances of blocked dividends, profits, and interest that had accrued dur ing 1965-73 to companies domiciled in designated countries (Canada, Tanzania, United Kingdom, United States, and Zamb ia ). The Yemen Arab Republic required all f re ight insurance on imports to be purchased in the country. Several countries modified the regulations govern- ing the export and import of domestic and foreign currency notes. In Bangladesh the limit on the amount of Bangladesh currency notes that could be taken out or brought in by travelers and the limit on the amount of foreign exchange that could be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES brought into Bangladesh without declaration was raised. In January 1982 Norway lifted the prohibi- tion against the import and export of banknotes in denominations larger than NKr 100. The export of foreign currency was prohibited in the Philippines. Yugoslavia limited the export and import of Yugo- slav currency notes to Din 1,500 a person for the first trip during the year, with no allowance for subse- quent trips during the same year; effective January 1, 1982, this regulation was eased by allowing the export and import of currency notes of Din 200 a person for trips after the first one. Payments Arrears External payments arrears incurred by Fund mem- bers rose sharply in the late 1970s but have since leveled off at close to SDR 5.4 billion in 1981. The number of Fund members incurring arrears, how- ever, continued to increase steadily —more than dou- bling from 1975 to 1981, from 15 to 32 countries. Aggregate figures for arrears in these years also embodied large shifts in individual countries' amounts; in 1980 Zaire's arrears declined by SDR 0.6 billion, while arrears of a number of other countries increased in total by a similar amount. Similarly, in 1981, Turkey's arrears were reduced by SDR 1 billion, while a r rea rs of approximately the same magn i tude emerged in Romania.18 Total de fe rmen ts of pay- ments obligations comprising both outstanding debt rescheduled and external payments arrears have, broadly speaking, leveled off in 1980 and 1981 in relation both to imports and to outstanding debt of the group of non-oil developing countries (Chart 3 ). As a ratio both of imports and of outstanding debt, arrears peaked in 1977 (at 2.9 and 2.4 per cent, respectively) and have since declined gradually through to the end of 1981 (to 1.5 and 1.3 per cent, respectively). Total amounts of debt rescheduled annua l ly as a result of mu l t i la teral and bilateral nego- tiations (relative also to import flows and to out- standing deb t) peaked in 1979 and declined sharply in 1981. A ma jor element in the large-scale debt relief operations in 1979 and 1980 was the resched- u l ing of US$5.3 billion of Turkish debt. 18 The amoun ts of paymen ts a r rea rs reported here are based on o f f ic ial na t ional sources, compiled in some instances w i th the assistance of Fund staff or creditor organ iza t ions. A l though there h ave been imp rovemen ts in the qu a l i ty of th is da ta, the basis of i d e n t i f y i ng a r rea rs, f rom the due da te of the p aym en t, or tak ing into account normal processing lags, or o ther considerations, d i f f e rs f rom coun t ry to coun try. Payments arrears constitute an exchange restric- tion under Article VIII of the Fund's Articles of Agreement when the authorities of a country are Chart 3. Payments Delayed and Deferred by Fund Members, 1975-81 P er c e nt of i m p o r ts of n o n - o il d e v e l o p i ng c o u n t r i es 71 6 - 5 4 3 - 2 - 1 0 Arrears + outstanding amounts rescheduled1 yr ^""""""x^ rrcars'1 -^""'"^ -n***"^ Rescheduling3 ^^"^^^^^ 1 9 73 1 9 76 1 9 77 1 9 78 1 9 79 1 9 80 1 9 81 Per c ent of t o t al o u t s t a n d i ng d ebt of d e v e l o p i ng c o u n t r i es 5 4 3 - ~~ — Arrears + outstanding amounts rescheduled1 2 - f ^**^ ' **>^j4 rrea rs2 1 0 •*^**"^ ^^^ Rescheduling3 ^s^ 1 9 75 1 9 76 1 9 77 1 9 78 1 9 79 1980 1 9 81 Sources: Wo r ld B ank, World Debt Tables, December 1981; O rg an i z a t ion for Econom ic Coop e r a t ion and Deve lopmen t, Ex- ternal Debt of Developing Countries; I n t e r n a t i o n al Mon e t a ry F u n d, International Financial Statistics (v a r ious issues); and Fund s ta ff es t ima tes. 1 Sum of a r r e a rs and e s t ima ted o u t s t a n d i ng reschedu led am o u n ts (s tocks as of the end of the ind i c a t ed yea r ), as a per cent of t o t al im p o r ts and of to tal o u t s t a n d i ng d eb t, respec t ive ly. 2 E x t e r n al p a ym e n ts a r rea rs, i n c l u d i ng d e f a u l t s. 3 Am o u n ts reschedu led in each year ( f l ow s) a re w i th respect to o f f i c i al d e v e l o pm e nt ass is tance coun t r ies and m a jor p r i v a te c r ed i to r s. responsible for undue delays, beyond those required by normal adm in is t ra t ive procedures, in approving applications or in mee t ing bona fide requests for fo r- eign exchange for the mak ing of paymen ts and trans- fe rs recognized as legitimate under the coun try's exchange control system. When paymen ts arrears are incurred by a government or by a government en t i ty whose financial operations fo rm part of the budge tary process, and in those instances when arrears are incurred by the government because a country belonging to a common central bank arrange- 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS ment is unable to obtain domestic currency with which to purchase needed foreign exchange f rom the common central bank, such arrears are treated as defaults rather than exchange restrictions. This dis- tinction is relevant, however, only for the purposes of the Fund's jurisdiction under Article VIII. According to the latest information available, pay- ments arrears (including government defaults) are estimated to have amounted to SDR 5.4 billion at the end of 1981, an increase of about SDR 200 mil- lion since the end of 1980. The increase of total arrears in 1981 occurred despite reschedulings of arrears amounting to about SDR 1.4 billion. At the end of 1981, 32 countries were identified as having payments arrears.19 Only one country (Benin) that had payments arrears at the end of 1980 totally eliminated them in 1981. During 1981 payments arrears emerged in five additional members (Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Romania, and Viet N am ). In 1981, of the countries that maintained payments arrears at the end of 1980, a reduction in the out- standing amount occurred in 10 countries (Bolivia, Central Afr ican Republic, Jamaica, Madagascar, Nicaragua, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Turkey, and Uganda ), and the outstanding amount increased in 13 countries (Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, The Gambia, Ghana, Guyana, Mali, Mauri- tania, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo, Zaire, and Zam- b ia ). Declines in payments arrears in the Central African Republic, Madagascar, Nicaragua, and Tur- key resulted almost entirely from rescheduling. Infor- mation on the level of payments arrears outstanding for four countries that had payments arrears at the end of 1980 (Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, Guinea, and Guinea-Bissau) is not available at pres- ent, but it is unlikely that these countries were able to eliminate payments arrears by the end of 1981; the estimate of the outstanding global payments arrears at the end of 1981 therefore includes the data for end-1980 of these countries. Payments arrears incurred by members at the end of 1981 involved payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of both imports and official and private debt service payments, includ- 19 Nineteen countries with a financial program supported by the use of the Fund's resources in effect, during 1981 including inoperative arrangements (Central African Repub- lic, Costa Rica, Guyana, Honduras, Jamaica, Liberia, Mada- gascar, Mauritania, Romania, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Turkey, Uganda, Zaire, and Zambia) and 13 other member countries (Bolivia, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Mali, Nicaragua, and Viet N am ). 28 ing interest payments. In some countries payments arrears also consisted of delays in the provision of foreign exchange for other current invisibles, such as remittances of profits and dividends on foreign invest- ment, or earnings of the international airlines. Arrears with respect to import payments included overdue letters of credit, delays in provision of foreign exchange for approved import transactions, and approval with little delay for "essential" imports (particularly petroleum) but with ad hoc or dis- criminatory release of exchange for other imports. In some of these instances, however, it was difficult to determine whether such delays in fact represented payments arrears, because the time period considered to be necessary by the authorities to process applica- tions for foreign exchange transfers varied consider- ably from country to country. Moreover, in instances of service payments in which the due date of settle- ment was not specified, verification of the existence of payments arrears was d iff icu l t. A counterpart deposit in foreign exchange against outstanding pay- mejits arrears not only facilitates the ma in tenance of a reliable record on arrears and the monitoring of the bona fides of foreign exchange applications, but also helps to effect an orderly elimination of a r rea rs by ensuring that domestic debtors will have sufficient financial resources when the foreign exchange is released. It also helps moderate liquidity expansion in what is normally an excess demand situation. Few countries required such deposits, however, and exchange rate guarantees on the deposits were given in few of these countries. Among the 32 countries maintaining payments arrears at the end of 1981, six countries (Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Mali, Senegal, and Togo) share com- mon currency arrangements as members of the French f ranc area.20 Payments arrears emerge in these coun- tries because the authorities do not have adequate recourse to domestic currency to purchase foreign exchange from their joint central banks (or central bank, in the case of Mali) owing to statutory limits on lending by the joint central bank to the partici- pating governments. In 1981 ad jus tment programs supported by stand- by or extended arrangements, all in the higher credit tranches, were in effect in 19 countries that were identified as having payments arrears at year end (see 20 The Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, and the People's Repub l ic of the Congo are members of the Bank of Central A f r ican States (BEAC) and Senegal and Togo belong to the Central Bank for West Afr ican States (BCEAO ). Mali has a special monetary arrangement with France. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES footnote 19 ). The programs for 16 of these coun- tries provided for a phased reduction or elimination of paymen ts arrears during the program period as performance criterion. The three exceptions were Mauritania, where data on payments arrears were not available at the time of the negotiation of the stand- by arrangement, and Honduras and Romania, where payments arrears emerged af ter the conclusion of the financial programs. Multiple Currency Practices Article VIII, Section 3, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement prohibits a member f rom engaging in, or permitting its fiscal agencies to engage in, any dis- criminatory currency arrangements or multiple cur- rency practices without the approval of the Fund. Such practices encompass separate exchange rates ( th rough the mechanism of a dual or multiple exchange marke t, the establishment of separate offi- cial exchange rates for specified transactions, or the application of exchange measures creating excessive exchange rate spreads), broken cross rates, or dis- criminatory currency arrangements. The Second Amendment of the Fund's Articles in 1978 removed a member's obligation to maintain exchange rates within margins of 1 per cent around parity and per- mitted a member to maintain exchange arrangements of its own choice. These changes required a review of the concept of, and Fund policies relating to, multiple currency practices, which was held by the Executive Board in October 1979 and March 1981.21 In the course of 1981, as in 1980, about one third of Fund members engaged in multiple currency prac- tices.22 Relatively few of these multiple currency practices (involving 9 members) were unapproved by the Fund following consultations with the mem- ber in 1981 and early 1982. Of the 42 members main- taining multiple currency practices at the end of March 1982, 13 simplified existing practices during the period under review, most often as a step toward even tual unification of the existing dual exchange ma rket system; 8 of these 13 countries eliminated a specific practice, while 6 of them modified existing practices. Seventeen members introduced at least one new multiple currency practice dur ing the period 21 For a detailed discussion of the October 1979 and March 1981 reviews and the criteria applied by the Fund in de term in ing the existence of multiple currency practices and broken cross rates, see Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1980, page 17, and 1981, pages 22-23. 22 In this section all forms of multiple currency practices, i.e., mu l t ip le currency practices involving capital as well as current transactions, are discussed. Janua ry 1981-March 1982, generally in the form of a dual exchange market system, including 5 members that gave official recognition to parallel exchange markets already in existence. Seven countries, com- pared with the group of members maintaining mul- tiple currency practices during 1980, were added to the list of members engaging in multiple currency practices during 1981 and early 1982.28 This increased reliance on multiple currency practices during the period under review implies a leveling off of the progress made between 1978 and 1980 in the reduction of members' reliance on multiple currency practices. During 1981 most of the significant changes lead- ing to a reduction in members' reliance on multiple currency practices involved modifications to dual or multiple exchange market systems. Measures to reduce the scope of the various exchange markets included the abolition of special rates, the reduction in the dispersion of rates, the narrowing of the scope of transactions covered by special rates, or the unification of rates. Although Argentina's foreign exchange market was split into a commercial and a financial market in June 1981, it was unified in December, so that only one multiple currency prac- tice remained; this arose from the compulsory sur- render of exchange proceeds from grain exports regis- tered with the National Grain Board prior to Decem- ber 24 at rates different from the rate in the unified market. The Lao People's Democratic Republic devalued its preferential exchange rate (which offers a premium to tourists, embassies, and inward trans- fe rs) from K 14 = US$1 to K 30 = US$1 in June, thereby reducing the differential between this rate and the exchange rate in the parallel market. With effect from July the use of the official exchange rate in Maldives was extended to all transactions with the Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA ), while the depreciated rate was to be used for all other trans- actions. In January 1982, the Maldivian Government announced that henceforth the official rate would be used only for accounting purposes and the MMA would only conduct foreign exchange transactions at the market rate. On January 1, 1981 Morocco termi- nated its practice of giving a 5 per cent premium for inward remittances to Moroccan banks or postal accounts by Moroccans working abroad. Nepal uni- fied the dual exchange rates for the rupee in terms of the U.S. dollar in September but made no change in the multiple currency practice by which the Nepal Rastra Bank quotes additional fixed buying and sell- 23 Afghanistan, Argentina, Bolivia, El Salvador, The Gambia, Jamaica, and Maldives. 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS ing rates for the Indian rupee, which is used in most transactions with India. With the goal of progres- sively shifting transactions from the official to the fluctuating free market, the authorities of Paraguay authorized the commercial banks to operate in the free market in September. Romania continued the simplification of its exchange rate system. In Janua ry 1982 the number of rates different from the com- mercial rate of lei 15 per U.S. dollar that are appli- cable to exports was reduced from 26 to 13 and the spread between the highest and lowest rate from lei 17 to lei 10 per U.S. dollar. On the import side, the special rate for iron ore and coking coal was abolished and the rate for crude oil imports —the only remaining rate d ifferent f rom the commercial rate— was depreciated from lei 10 to lei 12 per U.S. dollar. With effect from July the previously unofficial third exchange market was legalized in Sudan, creating three exchange markets; however, in November the official and parallel exchange rates were unified at the rate of LSd 0.90 = US$1, thus reorganizing the exchange system into a dual exchange market con- sisting of an official market with a fixed exchange rate and a fluctuating free market. During 1981 sub- stantial progress was made in reducing reliance on multiple currency practices in Turkey by the aboli- tion of special exchange rates for transfers to students studying abroad and for the importation of fertilizers and pesticides. Following these changes, only one multiple currency practice remains; this results from the operation of the retention scheme for foreign exchange earnings from specified exports and activi- ties of Turkish contractors abroad. In July 1981 Viet Nam reduced the premiums applied to receipts f rom tourists and inward remittances in convertible currencies. Two countries modified existing multiple currency practices not involving dual exchange market systems. In September Colombia reduced the tax rate applied to proceeds from coffee exports. In accordance with its obligations under the Accession Treaty with the EC to eliminate its advance import deposit require- ments over a four-year period, on January 1, 1982 Greece lowered for the second time the rates of its two remaining advance import deposit schemes. Actions creating new multiple currency practices or officially recognizing existing practices were reported in 16 countries during 1981. Afghanistan introduced a 3 per cent surcharge on foreign exchange sales by Da Afghanistan Bank and an exchange tax of 7 per cent on the proceeds from exports of raisins to the U.S.S.R. surrendered to the Da Afghanistan Bank; subsequently, the surcharge was raised to 5 per cent. 30 Brazil reintroduced and later modified a multiple currency practice in the form of tax credits given to exporters of manufac tured goods that had been abol- ished in 1979 (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). In March 1982 Bolivia adopted a dual exchange market system consisting of an offi- cial ma rket in which transactions involving the Cen- tral Government's import requirements would take place at the rates of $b 43.18 (buy ing) and $b 44.00 (selling) per US$1 and a free market in which all other transac t ions would take place at rates deter- mined by supply and demand. The People's Repub- lic of China introduced an internal settlement rate for foreign trade transactions on January 1, 1981. Numerous changes in Costa Rica's multiple currency practices du r ing 1981 included the following: (1) the establishment in March, unification in April, and re-establishment in May of a dual exchange ma rke t, as well as f requent modification of payments eligible for foreign exchange purchases in each marke t; (2) the introduction of a surrender requirement in the official market for a specified proportion of the proceeds f rom merchandise exports; (3) the appli- cation of exchange taxes of 5 per cent and 10 per cent on proceeds of traditional and nontraditional exports to countries of the Central American Com- mon Market (CACM), respectively; and (4) the removal in December of the provision of exchange at the former official rate for external debt service payments of the Central Government. During 1981 and early 1982 Ecuador modified the operation of its exchange system under which three sets of exchange rates existed —the fixed official rate, the nonofficial free market rate, and the fixed official "free market" rate, which was applied by the Central Bank mostly to its transactions with commercial banks and to tourist travel. Between May 1981 and March 1982 the official free market rate fluctuated in line with the nonofficial rate. In March 1982 tourism was excluded from the official free marke t, the rate in th is market was again fixed (at a level between the official and the nonofficial f ree market ra tes ), and a large part of trade transac t ions was shifted to this ma rke t. In August Egypt changed the commercial bank market exchange rate to LE 0.84 = US$1 while leaving the rate for transactions by the Central Bank at LE 0.70 = US$1; the commercial bank rate was to be adjusted periodically. El Salvador established a dual exchange market system in Decem- ber by permitting imports previously prohibited or subject to a prior deposit requirement, as well as most nongovernment services, to be paid through the parallel market. In January 1982 import and service ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES payments related to nontraditional exports shipped outside Central America were added to the parallel market. The Government of The Gambia required in November that the domestic currency counterpart of payments arrears be deposited in a blocked account at the Central Bank. As interest was paid on these deposits at a rate of 2 per cent, considerably below the market rate, the measure gave rise to a multiple currency practice. Ghana doubled its export bonus to 20 per cent of eligible amounts surrendered in June and in August raised the tax on exchange sales for travel abroad from 75 per cent to 80 per cent and established a special rate of 50 per cent for student expenditures abroad. Following the de facto recogni- tion of the informal exchange market in Jamaica in the first half of 1981, an increasing proportion of transactions was channeled through this market in conformity with an adjustment program supported by the Fund. In September Mauritius established a dual exchange market when the exchange rate of the rupee was depreciated by 16.7 per cent against the SDR except for transactions relating to imports of rice and flour on government account, to which the old official rate applies. In September a multiple currency prac- tice emerged in Nicaragua from the official recognition and regulation of the parallel exchange market in which only exchange dealers authorized by the Cen- tral Bank were allowed to operate and only for certain transactions. In February 1982 the proceeds of non- traditional exports, and some proportion of the pro- ceeds of traditional exports, were allowed to be sur- rendered in the parallel market. Also in February Nicaragua announced the application of a tax of C$5 on the purchase of foreign currencies by an importer from the national financial banking system at the official exchange rate for the purpose of making payments for imports of products not included in the list of essential goods. Somalia introduced a dual exchange rate system in June under which the official rate of So. Sh. 6.295 = US$1 would apply only to imports of specified essential commodities and a depreciated rate of So. Sh. 12.59 = US$1 would apply to all other foreign exchange transactions. In April the Syrian Arab Republic re-established a parallel market to be operated by the Commercial Bank of Syria. The parallel market rates were to be applied to most private sector transactions while the official rate would continue to be applied to most public sector transactions. Zaire gave official recog- nition to the parallel exchange market by the specifi- cation in Janua ry and June of products eligible for financing through this market. Bilateral Payments Arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements maintained between Fund members constitute an exchange restriction under Article VIII of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Since the mid-1970s the reliance of Fund members on bilateral payments arrangements decreased significantly, both in terms of the num- ber of Fund members maintaining bilateral payments agreements and the total number of agreements (including inoperative agreements). At the end of 1975, 56 members maintained 221 agreements; by the end of 1980 the total number of agreements had declined to 154 and the number of members main- ta in ing agreements to 43. During the period 1976-80, four countries that joined the Fund were maintaining 35 bilateral payments agreements, so that if the effect of the membership of these countries on the total number of agreements is not taken into consideration, the progress toward the termination of bilateral payments agreements is considerably more evident. Another significant aspect of the declining trend in the reliance on bilateral payments arrangements dur- ing this period is the decrease in the number of agree- ments maintained between Fund members. At the end of 1975, 71 agreements were maintained between 14 members; by the end of 1980, the number of agreements maintained between members decreased to 55, and the number of members maintaining agree- ments with other members decreased by one. If allowance is made for the change in the number of bilateral payments agreements maintained between members that had resulted from the change in mem- bership during 1976-80—the joining of three coun- tries (Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, and Sao Tome and Principe) and the change in the representation in the Fund of the People's Republic of China and Viet Nam —the progress achieved by members in termi- nating agreements with other members was marked. For example, during 1976-80, Greece and Spain terminated all of their bilateral payments agreements with Fund members (with Brazil, Egypt, Romania, and Yugoslavia in the case of Greece, and with Colombia, Egypt, and Equatorial Guinea in the case of Spa in ), and Algeria, Brazil, Egypt, Ghana, Guinea, and Yugoslavia made significant progress in termi- na t ing bilateral payments agreements with Fund mem- bers; the number of bilateral payments agreements with Fund members terminated by these six countries dur ing 1976-80 totaled 25. During 1976-80 a large number of bilateral payments agreements maintained between member countries also became inoperative, and very few new agreements were concluded. 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS There was a fur ther decline in the number of bilateral payments agreements (including inoperative agreements) maintained between Fund members and between members and nonmembers during 1981. During 1981 six agreements were terminated and one new agreement was concluded, so that the total number of agreements involving Fund members declined from 154 at the end of 1980 to 149 at the end of 1981. The four agreements between Fund members that were terminated in 1981 were those between Cyprus and the People's Republic of China, Finland and Romania, Ghana and Yugoslavia, and Nepal and the People's Republic of China. The bilateral payments agreements between the Syrian Arab Republic and Viet Nam and Bangladesh and Viet Nam became inoperative during 1981. As no new agreements were concluded between Fund members by December 31, 1981, the total number of bilateral payments agree- ments maintained between Fund members declined to 51. The number of operative bilateral arrangements between Fund members, which stood at 46 at the end of 1980, declined to 40 by the end of 1981, whereas the number of inoperative bilateral payments arrange- ments between Fund members rose from 9 at the end of 1980 to 11 at the end of 1981. During 1981 two bilateral payments arrangements maintained by Fund members with nonmembers were term ina ted, and a new agreement between a mem- ber and a nonmember was concluded. The Syrian Arab Republic abolished its agreement with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the agreement between Benin and Hungary, which had been inoperative for some time, expired. Tanzania concluded a bilateral payments agreement with Mozambique. Thus, the total number of bilateral payments agreements (including inoperative ones) between Fund members and nonmembers declined by one to 98 by the end of 1981. The number of operative agreements, however, remained unchanged since the end of 1980 and remained at 93 because of the new agreement concluded by Tanzania and Mozambique, whereas the number of inoperative agreements declined from six to five. Capital Flows In the past few years, interest rate differentials among major financial markets have been a relatively important factor for policies that affected capital transactions in industrial countries, and interest rate sensitivity in turn has had a direct impact on develop- ments in foreign exchange markets through capital transactions. Among developing countries, it is not- 32 able that some countries were obliged to restrict capi- tal outflows mainly owing to the deterioration in their balance of payments position. In January 1981, under the Algiers Accord, the United States eliminated nearly all the trade and financial sanctions against Iran that had been intro- duced in November 1979. Accordingly, Iranian assets held by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and by overseas banks and offices of U.S. banks were transferred as required by the Accord, and in August Iranian financial assets held by domestic offices of U.S. banks were transferred. In April 1982 the United Kingdom and Argentina froze each other's financial assets. As regards restrictions on the international oper- ations of banks in industrial countries during the period under review, Canada, Japan, and the United States took steps to increase substantially the scope of international banking activities permitted within their boundaries. In addition, the Federal Republic of Germany, France, and Japan lowered reserve requirements applicable to foreign currency deposits, partly to encourage capital inflows. Canada and Japan agreed in January to allow their commercial banks to operate a total of five branches in each other's country in 1981 and an additional two branches could be opened by the end of 1982. In the period under review Canada also licensed other foreign-owned banks under its Bank Act of Decem- ber 1980 which permits such banks, inter alia, to accept deposits, while constraining their domestic assets to 20 times their authorized capital and total domestic assets of all such banks to 8 per cent of total domestic assets of all banks operating in Canada. France removed the 5 per cent reserve requirement on nonresident deposits in May, and the Federal Republic of Germany lowered the m in imum reserve ratio for domestic and foreign liabilities by 7 per cent in February. Also, in February, in order to treat resident yen and foreign currency deposits in an equal manner, the Bank of Japan raised the reserve requirement ratios for foreign currency deposits before lowering them in April. In March the Bank of Japan established a special mechanism for lending short-term f u n ds to the country's banks at interest rates higher than the official discount rate. This mechanism was designed to discourage, inter alia, capital outflows induced by widening interest rate d ifferen t ia ls w i th other major industrial countries, which could result in a depreciation of the yen ( the provision was not, however, utilized in 1981). The Ministry of Finance permitted overseas branches of Japanese banks in May to lend freely Japanese cur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES rency held overseas as short-term deposits (Euro- yen) to nonresidents in order to finance international trade. In June Japanese banks were allowed to guarantee their overseas subsidiaries' bond issues in foreign capital markets, and the subsidiaries were permitted to issue bonds in foreign markets of their choice. In February South Afr ica doubled the limits applied to the release of funds in blocked accounts to emigrants visiting South Africa and liberalized the use of blocked funds. In February also, certain reporting requirements on foreign currency oper- ations were abolished. In August emigrants over 60 years of age or the disabled were permitted to transfer a portion of their settling-in allowance at the rate for the commercial rand. Members of the South A f r ican Insurance Association were exempted in August, for specified purposes, from the limits applied to the granting of credit to nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled companies in respect of performance bonds. In December transfers from a South African estate to nonresident beneficiaries at the commercial exchange rate were permitted up to R 5,000. Spain took a number of steps to liberalize banking regulations in January. The nonresident deposit categories of Foreign Accounts in Pesetas (A Accounts) and Foreign Accounts in Convertible Pesetas (B Accounts) were abolished, and balances in these accounts became balances in Convertible Peseta Accounts; the requirement that banks rede- posit with the Bank of Spain all increases in the Convertible Peseta Accounts was rescinded, as was the prohibition on payment of interest on such accounts; Spanish banks have been permitted to maintain a net position in U.S. dollars of up to US$1 million and a net position in each other con- vertible currency not exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000 at the close of each business day; they also were permitted to provide forward cover for Convertible Peseta Accounts of nonresidents. Swe- den lifted in October the prohibition on forward transactions with foreign banks in the currency of a third country. In Switzerland the m in imum capital ratio for foreign nonbank ing assets of the banks was fixed at 1.5 percentage points above the 40 per cent ratio for their domestic nonbanking assets. The June 1976 agreement (most recently extended on June 15, 1980) between the National Bank and the banks, under which the banks agreed not to use their foreign branches and affiliates to circumvent measures to prevent the appreciation of the Swiss f ranc, lapsed on June 15. In November a currency treaty between Switzerland and Liechtenstein entered into effect, under which all Swiss measures under the National Bank Law have full validity in Liechtenstein without separate approval by the latter's Govern- ment, and the National Bank was empowered to check for compliance with such measures in Liechen- stein. In the United Kingdom new guidelines were published in April for banks and other deposit-taking institutions, relating to the control for pruden t ial rea- sons of risks on foreign exchange exposure; the most important change was a reduction in the limits on banks' foreign exchange positions. The United States took an important decision in June to facilitate off- shore banking business in the country. The Federal Reserve Board amended Regulation D governing reserve requirements and Regulation Q governing payment of interest on deposits so as to permit the establishment of international banking facilities (IBFs) in the United States as from December 3. Under the rules adopted by the Federal Reserve Board, an IBF could accept deposits only from for- eign residents (including banks), from other IBFs, or f rom the institution establishing the IBF. Such funds were exempt from the reserve requirements of Regulation D and f rom the interest rate limitations of Regulation Q. For nonbank nonresidents the mini- mum ma tu r i ty or notice requirement was two busi- ness days, and the m in imum transaction amount was US$100,000. Funds raised by an IBF could be used only to extend credit to nonresidents, to other IBFs, or to an IBF's establishing entity. Credit to nonbank nonresidents was to be extended on condition that the funds were used in borrowers' operations outside the United States. Advances from an IBF to its estab- lishing entity in the United States were subject to reserve requirements in the same manner as advances to the establishing entity from the entity's foreign offices. A number of individual states (but not the Federal Government) had granted favorable treat- ment under state law to IBF operations. In addition, federal legislation was enacted to exempt deposits at IBFs from FDIC (Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation) insurance coverage and assessments. Measures taken by industrial countries in the area of portfolio investment tended to liberalize inflows and restrict outflows. Among the liberalizing mea- sures, the Deutsche Bundesbank announced in March that it would approve all applications for sale by residents to nonresidents of certain money market papers, bills, and domestic fixed interest securities with a ma tur i ty of up to two years, implying the de facto abolition of restrictions on capital transac- tions. In August the authorization requirement was eliminated resulting in the de jure abolition of all such restrictions in the Federal Republic of Germany. 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS In Italy the limit on the amount of foreign securities that Italian residents may hold without depositing them with an authorized bank was raised in March. In January Japan lifted the suspension of private placement of bonds by nonresidents that had been in effect since November 1979, but in March 1982 the Government asked securities dealers to re f ra in from selling zero-coupon bonds to residents. In May the Netherlands abolished the licensing requirement on loans to nonresidents with a ma tu r i ty of less than two years, and in July the licensing policy regarding nonbank borrowing from nonresidents was relaxed so as to permit borrowing by resident enterprises for domestic use if the average ma tu r i ty was at least two years instead of five and a half years previously. In December Norway announced that Norwegian firms having long-term foreign currency debt could hold time deposits abroad in foreign currencies and purchase foreign bonds quoted on recognized stock exchanges w i thout limits on the ma tur i ty of such assets, and in February 1982 it lifted the ceiling on purchases of quoted Norwegian shares by nonresi- dents. South Afr ica in February doubled the auto- matic ceiling applied to borrowing by nonresident- owned or nonresident-controlled companies by amending the formula utilized to calculate the bor- rowing limit of such companies. On balance, Swit- zerland also liberalized inflows. The National Bank announced in January that banks would be required to submit by mid-March data relating to planned public bond issues by foreign borrowers du r ing the April-June quarter. This policy continued through the fou r th quarter, but in November the National Bank announced that, from the first quarter of 1982, advance notice would no longer be required but that the Bank would coordinate the dates for public bond issues. In Ju ly the National Bank announced that for the first time, and as part of its policy for con- trolled internationalization of the Swiss franc, it had decided to issue up to Sw F 500 million worth of its own notes to a foreign monetary au thor i ty; the notes were issued in July and August. The National Bank announced in October that it would permit swaps of U.S. dollar debts of multilateral lending agencies for Swiss f ranc obligations incurred by other borrowers only if the Swiss f ranc obligations had been outstand- ing for at least 18 months, and if the original Swiss f ranc loan was authorized by the National Bank in accordance with its capital export rules. Outward portfolio investment was restricted in France, which reintroduced in May the devise litre system; under the system, purchases of foreign securi- ties by residents were required to be matched with 34 the proceeds f rom sales of foreign securities by resi- den ts. In September France suspended all forward exchange cover for importers, and in November, in a pa r t ial re laxa t ion of this measure, importers of green coffee, rice, hides and skins, wool, ha i rs, cot- ton, and cotton waste were au thor ized to cover the ir payment obligations up to three mon ths fo rwa rd. Forward cover was required to be obtained in the currency stipulated in the contract and to coincide w i th the da te of the settlement. In J a n u a ry the pur- chase by nonres iden ts of cer t if ica tes of deposit issued by banks in Spain was made sub ject to au tho r iza t ion, a l though the purchase by non res iden ts of bonds issued by banks w i th a m a t u r i ty of at least five years continued to be pe rm i t ted f ree ly. In Ju ly the Fed- eral Reserve Board in the Un i ted States amended its Regulation T by de le t ing the pa rag raph p e rm i t t i ng the use of fore ign cu r rency in ma rg in accounts. This amendment was intended to prohibit specu la t ive holding of fore ign cu r rency and secur i t ies and to ensure th at any transactions in foreign cu r rency were effec ted in accounts kept separate f rom securities credit transactions. Nearly all actions taken by indus t r ial countries in the area of direct investment were toward liberaliza- tion and affected mostly ou tward investment. Aus- t ra l ia removed in July the l im it on total overseas inves tment in equities and real estate by individuals and pub l ic and pr iva te companies and institutions. In Aus tr ia authorization was granted in Janua ry for inves tment credits to nonresidents, provided that the proceeds would be used in Aus tr ia, and for additional participation of nonresidents in domestic enterprises raising their capital to the legal m in imum. In addi- tion, the acquisition by nonresidents of domestic securities and shares, participation in domestic com- panies, and acquisition of domestic real estate (includ- ing rights to such real estate) no longer required approval of the National Bank as of August. Restric- t ions on the acquisition of real estate abroad were relaxed in Denmark, Finland, and Norway. In March Spain l if ted restrictions on investment in pesetas by nonresidents in Spain and delegated approval author- ity to various governmental levels, depending on the size of the inves tmen t. Du r ing the second part of 1981 Sweden adopted the following measures to liberalize direct inves tmen t: (1) in June the Exchange Control Board announced tha t, without departing from the principle that direct investments abroad should be financed abroad, it would be possible to grant exemptions to a greater extent, primarily as regards investments in the Nordic area; (2) in Octo- ber the Exchange Control Board announced that ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES enterprises would no longer be required to prove that their direct investment would have a beneficial effect on Sweden's balance of payments; and (3) in Novem- ber financing controls were liberalized to promote foreign direct investment in Sweden. In February the Federal Reserve Board of the United States permitted banks and bank-holding companies to invest in for- eign companies, including banks that transact business in the United States. Denmark and Sweden increased their exchange allowances for emigrants. Outward investment was restricted by France, which in May lowered the maximum amount of direct investment abroad permitted without authorization and required that at least 75 per cent of investments exceeding F 1 million had to be financed abroad, unless spe- cifically exempted. In March 1982, in conjunction with measures which, inter alia, made it more diffi- cult for individuals to gain nonresident status and to transfer capital abroad, France required that all direct investment in excess of F 1 million be financed abroad. Among developing countries that relaxed restric- tions a f fec t ing capital flows through the banking system, Ghana allowed its nonresident citizens to open foreign exchange accounts with domestic banks. Greece began to carry out its unde r tak ing to release balances in blocked accounts of individuals residing in the EC in six equal annual installments each January du r ing 1981-86. Honduras lowered reserve requirements on all types of foreign currency deposits and on large certificates of deposit and eliminated the ceiling on interest rates for loans financed with foreign funds. Hong Kong once again permitted foreign banks to open branches. In India authorized dealers were allowed in February to open rupee accounts in their books in the names of their branches and correspondents in Pakistan and the People's Republic of China w i thout prior reference to the Reserve Bank, and permission was granted for mak- ing remittances to these countries as generally or specially authorized by the Reserve Bank. However, authorized dealers were required to obtain the approval of the Reserve Bank before opening accounts in the names of branches of Pakistani and Chinese banks operating outside Pakistan and the People's Republic of China, respectively. Israel's new banking law required that Israeli banks acquir- ing 10 per cent or greater interest in foreign banking companies obtain the approval of the central bank. In addition, the interest surcharge on foreign cur- rency loans to nonbank residents was lowered in March. Jamaica raised the limit on releasing funds from blocked accounts without reference to the Cen- tral Bank to J$5,000. Korea doubled the limit on the amount that Koreans living abroad could borrow from foreign branches of Korean banks. Morocco eased exchange control regulations applicable to the t rans fer of assets by emigrants. Paraguay authorized commercial banks in September to deal in the fluctu- ating market for foreign exchange, on the conditions that their capital be increased by US$1 million, that their daily transactions be reported to the Central Bank, and that their overbought position in the fluctuating ma rket be limited to a particular amount. Commercial banks were prohibited from t ran s fe r r ing foreign exchange from the official market to the fluctuating market. Peru took a number of measures that gradually encouraged capital inflows. In Jan- uary the minimum capital requirement for branches of foreign banks and insurance companies was raised. Furthermore, certain activities and transactions were exempted from the 25 per cent deposit requirement against certain external borrowing or loan renewals by the private sector before the requirement was abolished in June. Also in June Peru lowered the marginal reserve requirement on financial ins t i tu- tions' foreign currency deposit liabilities. Singapore in October abolished the 20 per cent m in imum mar- gin requirement for borrowers financing imports and inventories and the 90-day limit on both forms of credit. In addition, finance houses were no longer required to observe certain limits on trade or inven- tory financing. Zimbabwe began to release in Jan- ua ry blocked dividends, interest, and other incomes of companies domiciled in countries that were pre- viously defined as "designated" (Canada, Tanzania, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Zam- bia) through six-year, 4 per cent a year interest, tax- free, government bond facilities. A few countries took measures that liberalized capital transactions through nonbank ing channels. Argentina introduced an exchange rate guarantee scheme in June for loans contracted or renewed for at least 540 days to stimulate new foreign borrow- ing and to encourage the lengthening of the ma tur i ty s t ruc tu re of the pr iva te sector indebtedness. In September the scheme was modified and expanded to cover up to 50 per cent of all financial loans of the private sector. It was fu r ther expanded in No- vember to cover all interest paymen ts on the private financial debt outstanding on June 30, 1981. In India ordinary rupee accounts of nonresidents could be used f rom March for payments toward investments in certain specified public sector securities. Israel abolished the negative interest rate on deposit require- 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS ments against direct foreign currency borrowing abroad. In the area of direct investment, a number of developing countries adopted new measures to en- courage inward transactions. In Janua ry Argentina liberalized procedures required for new foreign investment and centralized authority relating to the examination and approval of foreign investment in the Ministry of Economy. Preference was to be given to new investments in priority sectors and to com- panies with at least 51 per cent local participation. In addition, a new mining promotion law introduced in May allowed exploration and development of uran ium deposits by foreign pr iva te companies through jo int ventures with the Argentine Nuclear Agency on a fifty-fifty basis. The Dominican Repub- lic facilitated the repatriation of certain investments in the tourist sector, provided that the surrender requirements on exchange earnings had been com- plied with. In July Ghana, under its new Foreign Investment Code, abolished the requirement of majority ownership of domestic businesses by Ghana- ians. Haiti strengthened official guarantees for foreign investment in industry in April. Korea introduced a new set of guidelines in July that expanded the range of projects eligible for foreign investment and the list of projects for which 100 per cent and 50 per cent foreign participation was permissible. The minimum two-year wa i t ing period for the repatria- tion of capital was abolished. Direct investment abroad was liberalized by the abolition in August of the requirement of prior approval by the Bank of Korea for such investment and for retained profits up to US$10,000. Peru began in March to apply legislation authorizing foreign enterprises to invest in secondary oil recovery with PETROPERU (the gov- ernment oil company) and entitling them to a tax rebate on their investments. Also, in February, the reinvestment ceiling was eliminated and specified infras truc ture projects became eligible for tax-free investment. In April the requirement that company board members must be Peruvian residents was abolished. Sao Tome and Principe introduced in January a new investment code offering incentives to foreign investment in specified sectors. Some member countries tightened controls or restrictions on capital transactions. The Bahamas adopted a law in July controlling nonresident owner- ship of land. In October Colombia introduced new investment rules barring foreign investors from purchasing 10 per cent or more of the share of a financial institution without prior approval. In Egypt banks were no longer permitted to accept cash 36 deposits in foreign currencies without proof that the underlying transaction was legal, and "Special Accounts" were abolished in September. At the same time, banks were required to deposit 15 per cent of their foreign currency holdings with the Central Bank. France, in March 1982, modified the definition of nonresidents by changing the residency requirement abroad from one to two years and required nonresident nationals to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of France before t rans fe r r ing capital abroad. Exchange control measures intro- duced by Honduras in September included a require- ment for the contracting of external loans and credits to conform with certain priorities and for such con- tracts to be registered w i th the Central Bank. A partial relaxation of conditions was effected in November. In Israel acquisitions by residents of 5 per cent or more of securities issued by foreign companies was made subject to approval. In June Ivory Coast and Upper Volta required that at least 75 per cent of investment abroad by residents must be financed abroad. In Kenya the exemptions from repatriation of deposits, securities, and other assets held abroad by residents prior to June 11, 1965 were abolished, and these items became subject to the provisions of the Exchange Control Act. Repa- triation of assets held abroad was required to be completed by December 31. In August Korea intro- duced a regulation establishing a max imum limit on emigrant remittances of US$100,000 a household; the authorization of the foreign exchange banks was required for remittances up to US$20,000 and that of the Bank of Korea for remittances exceeding that limit. In May Lebanon reduced the permitted net foreign currency position of commercial banks f rom 200 per cent to 50 per cent of capital. In August commercial banks in Malaysia were prohibited from granting loans for investments abroad. Mau r i t ius increased the stamp du ty on outward t rans fe rs of capital. In September Nicaragua announced an Eco- nomic Emergency Law, which contained a number of provisions aimed at reducing fu r ther the outflow of capital. In June Niger tightened the regulations governing foreign investments by residents. In Peru the tax amnesty for U.S. dollar-denominated certifi- cates of deposit was terminated in February. The United A rab Emirates established new foreign invest- ment rules in May, including the requirements that (1) the capital of a financial company be not less than Dh 50 million, (2) not less than 70 per cent of corporate shares be held by nationals or organiza- tions of the United Arab Emirates, (3) shares not be sold during the first three years af ter incorporation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS or before the company has made a profit of at least 10 per cent of equity, and (4) two thirds of the board of directors and the cha irman be nationals of the United Arab Emirates. In January the Bank of Zambia stopped accepting applications for the take- over of any company in Zambia owned wholly or partly by nonresidents and for remittances of liqui- dation proceeds of foreign-controlled companies or branches in Zambia to head offices abroad. At the same time, the Bank of Zambia prohibited any indi- viduals or companies from opening bank accounts abroad. Gold A number of countries changed regulations gov- erning trade in gold. In Bahra in gold brokers were required in Ju ly to make margin deposits of BD 3,000 or 10 per cent of the contract value, whichever is larger. In March Belgium reduced the value-added tax on transactions in mone tary gold. Brazil pro- hibited the export of gold and under existing regula- tions the Central Bank began to buy and sell gold in the domestic market at international prices. In June India extended to March 31, 1982 the validity of the scheme, introduced in October 1980, for the export of gold jewelry against gold supplied by the foreign buyer. Japan lifted exchange control on fu tu res trading in gold for designated companies. Mauritius increased the stamp du ty on the import of gold. In June Mexico eliminated the tax on excess profits f rom the sale of gold and silver, and in October the Bank of Mexico issued three new gold coins, which were not legal tender. Saudi Arabia prohibited the importation of 14-karat gold. In February South Africa raised the limit on the domestic sale of Krugerrands from 150,000 ounces to 300,000 ounces a year. In February Suriname issued a gold coin with a face value of Sf 200, which was legal tender, and raised the import du ty on unmarked gold to S f l . OO a gram in September. Effective January 1, 1982, the purchase of gold and gold coins by central banks in Switzerland was exempted f rom the 5.6 per cent retail sales tax. Effective April 1, 1982 the United Kingdom sub- jected sales of gold coin to a 15 per cent value-added tax. IV. Main Developments in Regional Arrangements A number of steps were taken to foster regional cooperation in various par ts of the world during 1981. Greece became a member of the EC, and Portugal and Spain continued negotiations on their accession to the EC. The EC negotiated a second Lome Convention with the A f r ican, Caribbean, and Pacific states. Country groups in Africa initiated tar iff reduction programs, and a new trade area was formed by countries in eastern and southern Africa. Six Arab states formed a Cooperation Council for Economic, Financial, and Cultural A f fa i rs. Western Hemisphere countries enlarged their financial coop- eration facilities, and ties among the countries in the Eastern Caribbean were strengthened with the ratification of a new treaty. On January 1, 1981 Greece joined the EC, becom- ing its tenth member. A f ter entering into an Agree- ment of Association with the EEC in 1961, Greece applied for fu ll membership in 1975 with the formal completion of negotiations on May 28, 1979 when the Treaty of Accession was signed. The Treaty of Accession allows for a transitional period of up to five years; however, a special transitional period of seven years will apply to the free movement of workers and to the trea tment of certain agricultural products. During 1981 the EC continued to negotiate with Portugal and Spain on their accession to the EC. Portugal, originally scheduled to become a member of the EC on Janua ry 1, 1983, is now scheduled to jo in the EC on January 1, 1984. The negotiations between Portugal and the EC during 1981 centered on the length of the transitional periods for the formation of a customs union and for the free move- ment of workers between Portugal and EC member countries. The negotiations between Spain and the EC centered on customs union and agricultural policies, and to a lesser extent, on the introduction of the value-added tax in Spain, on the free move- ment of workers, and on regional questions. Spain is also scheduled to become an EC member on Janua ry 1, 1984. The protocol concerning the commercial regime of association between the EC and Cyprus for the year 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS s t reng then ing the economic and t rade relations between the EC and the People's Republic of China. The economic and trade relations of the EC and the People's Republic of China expanded since the s ign ing of a five-year trade agreement in 1978. In April the EC and India concluded a five-year agreement on nonp r e f e r en t i al economic and com- merc ial cooperation. The new agreemen t, which replaced the pure ly commercial agreement of 1973, was in tended to promote t rade, to encourage indus- trial, technological, and scientific cooperation and to establish closer economic re la t ions between the EC and India. On October 16 the EC Par l iament approved the cooperation agreement between the EC and India. The EC and Israel signed an addi- tional t rade protocol in March 1981 p rov id ing for a two-year de fe rment of the timetable for ta r i ff dis- man t l ing by Israel w i th respect to cer ta in indus t r ial produc ts impor ted f rom the EC and of the date of exp iry of the clause re la t ing to new industries in favor of Israel. The la t ter clause will expire in 1985 instead of in 1983, as originally planned. On Janua ry 1981 came into force in July. The commercial regime renewed in mid-1981 did not contain any changes f rom the previous regimes. The special trade regime between the EC and Malta arising from the first phase of their association agreement was extended until December 31, 1981.24 Negotiations were also held regard ing extensions of other aspects of the association agreement between the EC and Malta. The EC and Turkey agreed on June 19 on a fou r th financial protocol under their Association Agreement. The protocol came into effect on November 1, 1981 and is to run for five years. The second Lome Convention, which was signed on October 31, 1979, entered into force on Janu- ary 1, 1981 af ter the ra t if ica t ion procedures were completed in the EC member countries and in more than two thirds of the 58 A f r ican, Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP) States.25 The second Lome Conven- tion expires on February 28, 1985. The sixth meeting of the Council of Ministers of the ACP and EC, the first since the second Lome Convention, was held in April 1981 to discuss the operation of the Con- vention. A meeting of the Consultative Assembly of the ACP and EC held in Luxembourg in Septem- ber discussed the impact of the EC's sugar policy on ACP sugar producers, shortfalls in STABEX transfers, and the consultation mechanism between EC and ACP countries. Representatives of the EC and the ASEAN met on various occasions dur ing 1981 to discuss progress made in cooperation projects unde r taken under the aegis of their cooperation agreement signed in 1980. From March 30 to April 10, 1981, meetings between economic and trade officials of the People's Republic of China and executives from EC industrial and bank ing companies were held with a view to fu r ther 24 The first phase of the association agreement was orig- inally supposed to be followed by a second phase in the form of a customs union. 25 The 58 ACP states are divided into the following cate- gories by Lome II: (1) the least developed countries— Benin, Botswana, Burund i, Cape Verde, Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Dominica, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Rwanda, St. Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Tuvalu, Uganda, Upper Volta, and Western Samoa; (2) the island and land-locked countries —Bahamas, Bar- bados, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Jamaica, Madagascar, Mauri- tius, Papua New Guinea, Trinidad and Tobago, Zaire, and Zambia; and ( 3) others —Cameroon, Congo, Gabon, Ghana, Guyana, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Liberia, Nigeria, Senegal, and Suriname. 38 MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS held in Caracas dur ing May 13-19, 1981. The Con- ference adopted a Program of Action, covering various areas of financial cooperation, including balance of payments support, payments arrange- ments, and trade financing. The Conference recom- mended (1) the enlargement of existing financial facil- ities administered by some developing countries and examination of the feasibility of a financing facility to meet balance of paymen ts problems, with con- tributions f rom interested developing countries and administered by them; (2) the reinforcement of bilateral and regional payments arrangements and establishment of linkages among the d i f fe rent pay- ments arrangements to fac i l i ta te interregional pay- ments arrangements; and (3) that special attention be given to setting up regional and interregional trade development banks, as well as to strengthening existing regional ones, broadening the fields of operation, and encouraging the participation of all countries concerned within the region. A Niger Basin Au thor i ty was set up on Novem- ber 22, 1980 at Faranah, Guinea, to replace the River Niger Commission.26 A development fund has been established for the au thor i ty to promote development in the basin of the Niger; the projects include reforestation, dredging the river bed, and dam building. The annual Summit Conference of the Economic Community of West Afr ican States (ECOWAS) was held in Freetown, Sierra Leone, during May 28-29, 1981. The meeting formally approved May 28, 1981 as the starting date for the elimination of ta r i f fs on unprocessed goods and traditional hand icraf ts traded between member states. Agreement had already been reached that, from May 28, all ta r i f fs were to be lifted on intracommunity trade in certain industrial products imported from a small number of industries identified as "community enterprises" serving essen- tial Community interests. Gradual elimination of ta r i f fs on other industrial products traded between ECOWAS members began on the same date. The more industrialized countries of Nigeria and Ivory Coast were to eliminate their t a r i f fs at a fas ter pace than the other countries; all ta r i f fs were to be eliminated during the next eight years. It was also agreed at the meeting that by May 1989 ECOWAS members would establish a customs union. National ta r i f fs of member states would in due course conform to this common one. The ECOWAS heads of state also made a comm i tment to remove non tar iff bar- 26 The members are Benin, Cameroon, Chad, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, and Upper Volta. riers within four years. The Freetown conference also reaff irmed the commitment of ECOWAS mem- bers on a regional investment project on tele- communications designed to improve regional communications and on the even tual freedom of movement of citizens of ECOWAS countries in the region. During the ECOWAS meeting, the heads of state of Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone officially established a customs union w i th in the three-nation Mano River Union. The Great Lakes Economic Commun i ty Payments System was established on March 13, 1981 between Burund i, Rwanda, and Zaire as a renewed effort to foster their mu tual trade. The Payments System substituted the 1978 Monetary Agreement between the central banks of these three countries. The Pay- ments System provides for the channeling of pay- ments that originate in the trade of goods and related payments such as freight and insurance. On October 16, 1981, a conference of African Ministers of Trade, Finance and P lann ing endorsed a trea ty creating a Preferen t ial Trade Area (PTA) for Eastern and Southern Afr ica af ter more than three years of negotiations and requested that steps be taken as soon as possible to establish the Federa- tion.27 The conference also endorsed the creation of a clearing and payments arrangement for the PTA countries. The clearing and payments arrangement was to encourage the use of national currencies in the settlement of eligible transactions among the members, to establish a mechanism to effect such payments, and to consult regularly on monetary and financial matters. The PTA Treaty was signed by the heads of state of the nine participating countries in Lusaka on December 21, 1981.28 The PTA Treaty contained 12 protocols on trade-related matters, among which were a protocol on clearing and pay- ments arrangements establishing a clearinghouse, a protocol on the reduction of trade barriers, and a protocol on rules on transit trade. The South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement ( S PARTECA ), which was opened for signature on July 14, 1980, entered into force on Janua ry 1, 1981. The signatories to the agreement were members of the South Pacific Com- 27 The PTA has 18 members: Angola, Botswana, Como- ros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mau r i t ius, Mozambique, Seychelles, Somalia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 28 The nine countries that signed the PTA Treaty in Lusaka were Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Mauritius, Somalia, Uganda, and Zambia. 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS mission and were countries that have strong his- torical, economic, and geographical links. The Agreement provided for du ty-free, unrestricted, or concessional access to markets of Australia and New Zealand for a wide range of products imported from signatory countries. The Agreement, which is nonreeiprocal, was concluded with the objective of fu r the r ing the economic development of develop- ing island coun t ry members of the South Pacific Forum. The Agreement also included provisions for Australia and New Zealand to consider various forms of assistance in the f ramewo rk of their bilateral and regional development assistance programs in the South Pacific, in response to specific requests in the fields of trade promotion, industrial develop- ment, and agriculture, forestry and fisheries. The South Pacific Conference (SPC), repre- senting 21 autonomous island countries, together with Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, the United States, and France met in Vanua tu in October 1981. The most important economic agree- ments reached in the Conference were a tentative agreement to proceed with plans for a regional stabilization scheme to protect incomes from agricul- tural exports to supplement the existing national stabilization schemes and the acceptance of a report on proposals to establish a Pacific Islands regional development f u n d, which would mobilize and make available additional funds to support national proj- ects of regional value and to encourage economic interaction in the region. The first formal meeting of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf was held in Abu Dhabi in May 1981. The Gulf Cooperation Council, composed of Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates, was established to coordinate economic, social, and political policies of the six member countries and to promote closer relations. The Council agreed to draw up regulations covering economic, financial, educational, cultural, social, and communication a f fa i rs of the member countries. At the May meet- ing, it was announced that a US$6 billion jo int invest- ment fund would be set up to carry out joint venture projects, mostly in the Gulf. During 1981 the members of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA) ,29 which super- seded the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) in 1980, renegotiated the trade prefer- ences originally negotiated under LAFTA. These preferences were to be renegotiated again at the bilateral level by LAIA members w i th respect to the period after 1981. In September a meeting of the central bank gov- ernors of the Santo Domingo Agreement decided to enlarge it. The Santo Domingo Agreement is an agreement among cen t ral banks of LAIA coun tr ies designed to meet l iqu id i ty shortages ar is ing f rom the settlements of the LAIA c lear ing a r rangemen t. The new agreement consisted of th ree fac i l i t ies: a facility to assist member coun tr ies in the se t t lemen ts of debtor balances ar is ing from the clearing arrange- ment;80 a fac i l i ty to provide financial support to member coun t r ies expe r ienc ing global balance of paymen ts deficits; and a f a c i l i ty designed to assist member coun t r ies w i th serious l i q u i d i ty problems caused by n a t u r al disasters. The th ree fac i l i t ies were open for acceptance by any cen t ral bank or mone tary au tho r i ty in the region. An Andean Pact Commission mee t ing held in Colombia in September 1981 iden t if ied the role of multinational Andean corporations, increased private sector participation, and encouraged bilateral tariff negotiations in reac t iva t ing the Andean Pact. Some of the Commission members viewed mu l t ina t ional Andean corporations ac t ing as jo int ven tu res of two or more member coun tr ies as an a l te rna t ive to the Pact's indus tr ial programs under wh ich d i f fe rent parts of an indu s t ry were allocated to d i f f e r ent mem- ber countries. Ano ther mee t ing of the Andean Pact Commission took place in Quito, Ecuador, in De- cember to discuss the indus t r ial programs under the Pact, the basis for establishing mu l t ina t ional Andean corporations, and the tariff-lowering process of Bolivia and Ecuador compared w i th those of other members of the Pact. Negotiations by member coun t r ies of the Central American Common Ma rket on a common external ta r i ff continued du r ing the year. In May 1981 a fund to finance debtor balances ar is ing f rom settle- ments of the clearinghouse of the Central American Common Ma rket was created w i th in the s truc ture of the Central American Bank for Economic Inte- gration. The f u nd would be administered indepen- dently of normal operations of the Bank and credit would be granted to central banks that were mem- bers of the Bank. In the Caribbean representatives of region, 29 Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela. 30 This fac i l i ty was equivalent to the original Santo Domingo Agreement. 40 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN REG IONAL ARRANGEMENTS An t igua and Ba rbuda, Dominica, G renada, Mont- serrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the G renad ines ra t i f ied the trea ty that created the Organ iza t ion of East Caribbean States (OECS) on June 18, 1981. The OECS is a mechanism for strengthening relations among mem- ber countries in economic, jud ic ia l, civil aviation, and diplomatic ma t ters. 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT TWO ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note on Coverage of Individual Countries Part Two gives a detailed description of the exchange and trade system of individual member countries, includ- ing two nonmetropolitan territories. The exchange and trade system of one other country, which is not a member of the Fund, is also described. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as at the end of 1981, but in appropriate cases reference is made to significant developments that took place early in 1982. A standardized approach has been followed, under which the description of each system is broken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each coun- try includes a final section that lists chronologically the more s ign if icant changes du r ing 1981. The description of the restrictive system is not neces- sarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of def in i t ion and jur isd ic t ion have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restrictive systems in the ir en t ire ty, except for the ta r i ff s t ruc tu re and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the coverage extends to such features as import licensing, advance deposit requ iremen ts, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the section "Changes du r ing 1981" includes references to certain developments that may have a direct impact on in terna t ional transactions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as ma jor revisions of import ta r i f fs or developments relating to regional cooperation. The description given in the section Exchange Arrangement is in line with the notification of exchange arrangements that member countries have furnished to the Fund under Article IV, Section 2(a). The struc- ture of exchange markets is described, and the official exchange rate is given. The rates quoted are those effec- tive on December 31, 1981, unless stated otherwise. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and admin- istration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for working purposes. The section on Prescription of Currency describes the requirements affecting the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other coun- tries. Where a country has concluded payments agree- ments with other countries, the terms of these agree- ments often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and f rom the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. Under Nonresident Accounts, a description is given of the manner in which the coun t ry treats accounts, if any, ma in ta ined in its currency by account holders who are not regarded as resident in that country, and the facil- ities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonres ident accoun t, the n a tu re and operation of the va r ious types are also described. In the section on Imports and Import Payments, import licensing requ iremen ts are described br ief ly, and details are given of other requirements imposed on pay- men ts for imports and of any advance deposit require- ments. The term "open general license" indicates a r rangemen ts whereby certain impor ts or other interna- t ional transac t ions are exempt f rom the res tr ic t ive application of licensing requ iremen ts, in con trast to an " ind iv idual license," which may be given e i ther free ly, or restrictively, according to adm in i s t r a t ive decisions. Under Payments for Invisibles, the procedures for perm i t t ing payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles are described briefly, together w i th any l im i ta- tions on the export of foreign and domestic banknotes. For some coun tr ies that do not impose l im i ta t ions on payments for invisibles, this section is combined w i th the section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles (see be low ). Export licensing requirements and procedures are described under Exports and Export Proceeds, with an ou t l ine of the requ iremen ts that may be imposed on the hand l ing of proceeds f rom exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" ind ica tes that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell any fore ign exchange proceeds in re tu rn for local currency, usua l ly at the official rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries there is a requirement that such exchange or part thereof be sold in a free marke t. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions gov- erning exchange derived f rom transac t ions in invisibles are given, and any l im i ta t ions on the import of foreign and domestic banknotes are described. The coverage under Capital describes the special arrangements or l im i ta t ions attached to in te rna t ional capital movements. Where regulations on foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are usua l ly dealt w i th in this section rather than in the sections on Pay- ments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. The section on Gold gives a summa ry of the pr inc ipal regulations that govern the holding, negotiation, import, and export of gold coin and gold in other forms. 44 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN (Position on December 37, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of A fgh an i s t an is the A fghan i. Until May 21, 1979 A fghan i s tan ma in ta ined a multiple exchange rate system w i th d i f f e r i ng rates being quoted by Da A fgh an i s t an Bank ( the cen tral b a n k ), the com- mercial banks, and by dealers in the money bazaar. On May 21, 1979 the exchange ra te system was un i f ied with a u n i t a ry rate fixed by Da A f g h a n i s t an Bank. This un i ta ry rate is fixed in terms of U.S. dollars and is flexible. On December 31, 1981 Da A f g h a n i s t an Bank's buying and selling rates were Af 50.00 and A f 5 1 . 2 0, respectively, per US$1. These rates are applied by Da A fgh an i s t an Bank and by all other banks to all transactions of both the Government and the pr iva te sector. Da A f g h a n i s t an Bank posts rates for deutsche mark, French f r an c s, Pak is tan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, which reflect the ir va lue re la t ive to the U.S. dollar in in te rna t ional ma rke ts and the local bazaar fo re ign exchange ma rket (see be low ). Da A fghan is tan Bank charges commissions rang ing f rom 0.10 per cent to 0.375 per cent on exchange transac- tions and levies a 5 per cent surcharge on its sales of foreign exchange. Proceeds of raisin exports to the U.S.S.R. (other than those by agr icu l tural cooperatives) that are sold to the Da A fgh an i s t an Bank are sub ject to an exchange surcharge of 7 per cent; the surcharge is refunded if the exporter should w i th in one year buy back the fo re ign exchange to pay for impor ts f rom the U.S.S.R. A number of t ransac t ions take place in the bazaar foreign exchange ma rke t, where the rates are generally more depreciated. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transac t ions are controlled by the Government th rough Da A f g h a n i s t an Bank. The con trol is fac i l i ta ted by the existence of relatively large com- panies specializing in the export of such commodities as ka raku l, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such commodities, w i th the exception that the export of cotton is reserved for f o ur au thor ized companies. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th countries w i th which A fghan i s tan has bilateral paymen ts ag reemen t sl must be made in the fore ign currencies specified in the agreements. The proceeds f rom exports of ka raku l, wool, and cotton to other coun tr ies must be ob ta ined in convertible cur- rencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license, but import trans- actions must be registered before orders are placed 1 People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, and U.S.S.R. abroad. Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, liquor, arms, and ammun i t ion) are prohibited on grounds of public policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be gran ted. The impor ta t ion of certain o ther goods (e.g., a few textiles and selected nonessen t ial consumer goods) also is prohibited. There are no quan- t i ta t ive restrictions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quan t i t ies (and some- times prices) for commodities to be traded. Most of the trade w i th b i la te ral agreement countries is carried out on a compensation basis, and u su a l ly bo th impo r ts and exports are arranged by the same t r ad e r; imports against exports of cotton, na tu ral gas, and wool are carried out by the Gove rnment or government agencies, or the proceeds of such exports are a l loca ted for servic- ing of the Government's external debt. The present customs tar iff s t ruc tu re was promulgated in June 1974 and has since then been modified in the annual budgets. Ac tual ta r i ff rates, ad valorem and specific, va ry considerably. Ad valorem duties usually range between 20 per cent and 35 per cent. Payments for impor ts through the bank ing system to paymen ts agreement countries may u sua l ly be made only under letters of credit. Paymen ts to other countries may be made under letters of credit, against bills for collection, or against an unde r tak ing by the importer to import goods at least equ iva lent to the payment made th rough the bank ing system. Genera l ly, a deposit of up to 40 per cent of the c.i.f. value is required by banks f rom private enterprises upon es tab l ishment of a letter of credit. Payments for Invisibles There is an exchange allocation f rom the banks for tourist travel abroad equivalent to US$2,000 a tr ip. In add i t ion, tourists are permitted to purchase their tickets locally, inc lud ing tickets for package tours. On appli- cation, foreign exchange is also allocated for business travel, as well as for medical trea tment abroad, the amoun ts being determined by the appropriate authorities. The fee for a passport valid for one year is Af 20,000 for tourist travel, Af 5,000 for business travel, and Af 1,000 to Af 2,500 for other types of travel. Export by travelers of foreign currency notes up to US$2,000 or its equivalent is permitted only if the foreign exchange has been bought from the bank ing system. Travelers are not allowed to take out more than Af 1,000 in domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than go ld) are not sub ject to license, but export transactions must be registered. Exports of a few commodities (e.g., opium and museum pieces) are prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see sec- tion on Imports and Import Payments, above). Proceeds f rom exports of ka rakul to all countries, inc lud ing pay- ments agreement countries, are received in convertible currencies. Receipts from exports of na tu ral gas, kara- kul, wool, and cotton must be surrendered. Da Afghan- istan Bank also buys fore ign exchange from exports to bilateral paymen ts agreement countries, up to 50 per cent of exports by individuals and 70 per cent in the case of commercial ins t i tu t ions. An export tax of Af 50 a ton is levied on exports of raisins to the People's Republic of China and Czechoslovakia. Proceeds from Invisibles Forty per cent of the foreign currency salaries of fore ign employees work ing in the A fghan public and private sectors must be converted into Afghanis. Travel- ers entering A fghan i s tan may bring in any amount in A fghan banknotes. They may also bring in any amount in fore ign currency but should declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any residue when leaving the country. Capital Foreign investment in A fghan is tan requires prior approval and is administered by an Investment Com- mittee. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law of 1353 (issued on Ju ly 4, 1974) provides for a number of benefits, which include ( 1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul prov- ince ), beginning f rom the date of the first sales of products resulting from the new investment; ( 2) exemp- tion f rom import duties on essential imports (ma in ly of capital goods ); ( 3) exemption f rom taxes on dividends for four years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years a f ter the approval of the investment; (4) exemption f rom personal income tax and corporate tax on interest on fore ign loans which constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemp- tion f rom export duties, provided that the products are permitted to be exported; and (6) manda tory purchases by government agencies and departments of their requirements from enterprises established under the law where prices of such products are not more th an 15 per cent higher than prices of fore ign supplies. The law provides that fore ign inves tment in A fghan is tan can only take place through joint ventures, with foreign par t ic ipa t ion not exceeding 49 per cent. It also estab- lishes that an investment approved by the Investment Committee shall require no fu r th er license in order to operate in Afghanistan. Payments of principal and interest on loans f rom abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated a f ter five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20 per cent of the total registered capital. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell domes- tically gold in any form. Imports of gold are restricted. Exports of gold and silver in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Council of Min- isters; such licenses are not norma l ly gran ted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles containing m inor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any fo rm unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties. Changes during 1981 January 12. A3 per cent surcharge was imposed by Da Afghan is tan Bank on its sales of foreign exchange. March 24. With specified exceptions, an exchange tax of 7 per cent was levied on proceeds of raisin exports to the U.S.S.R. that are sold to the Da A fghan is tan Bank. March 24. A provision was introduced for exporters to sell to Da A fghan is tan Bank up to 70 per cent of the proceeds from exports to the U.S.S.R. June 8. The surcharge on foreign exchange sales by Da Afghanistan Bank was raised from 3 per cent to 5 per cent. 46 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Algeria is the Algerian Dinar. Daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, and other specified currencies1 are estab- lished by the Central Bank of Algeria on the basis of a fixed relationship between the d inar and a composite of currencies. The currencies included in the composite and their weights take into account the relative impor- tance of paymen ts, inc lud ing capital transactions, that are made in these currencies. A ma rg in of DA 0.015 has been established between the buy ing and selling rates of the dinar in terms of the U.S. dollar. An encourage- ment prem ium is granted on the conversion of convert- ible currencies repa tr ia ted by A lger ians working abroad. The prem ium is ad jus ted so as to ensure that the exchange rate for such remittances is DA 1 = F 1. The foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Central B ank; authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position w i th their fore ign correspondents at the end of each day but, under certain conditions, they are permitted to hold cover for documentary credits outside Algeria. There are no fo rwa rd exchange facili- ties. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank have general jurisdiction over exchange control. The Central Bank assists in the fo rmu la t ion of the exchange legisla- tion and regulations and is responsible for their applica- tion by the authorized banks. Au tho r i ty over many exchange control procedures has been delegated to three commercial banks and the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses and global import quotas are issued by the Ministry of Commerce within the limits of a general import program. Import and export licenses require the visa of the Central Bank. The Societe Nationale pour la Recherche, la Production, le Transport, la T rans fo rma t ion et la Commercialisation des Hydrocarbures (SONATRACH) has a monopoly over imports and domestic sales of petroleum and petroleum products and handles most exports of these commodities. Investment of foreign capital in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria requires approval by a National Investment Committee in order to obtain the benefits of the Invest- ment Code. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which no payments agreements are in force are made in convertible cur- rencies. Settlements with countries with which Algeria 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a r k, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. has concluded bilateral paymen ts agreements2 are made through special accounts under the terms of the agree- ments. Some of these accounts are denominated in A lger ian dinars and others in U.S. dollars of account. Paymen ts under fore ign supply contracts (contrats de fournitures) can be made in e i ther the currency in use at the headquar ters of the supplier or that of the coun try of origin of the merchandise. Foreign holders of servicing contracts are requ ired to open local non- resident accounts to which paymen ts are made by the Algerian con trac t ing pa r ty; such accounts must be closed w i th in six mon ths f rom the end of the contract, beyond which date ou tward t rans fe rs of the funds or their use for purposes un re la ted to the contracts is not permitted. Nonresident Accounts Most nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars or In te rnal Non res ident Accounts. There are at present f o ur types of accounts, as follows: ( 1) Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened w i thout authorization and may be credited with pay- ments from any country. Balances in such accounts opened prior to J anu a ry 1, 1975 by nonresident physical persons of foreign na t iona l i ty have been released for t rans fer abroad. (2) Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars (CEDAC accoun ts) may be opened by individuals or juridical persons of fore ign na t iona l i ty, inc lud ing those under supply or servicing contract arrangemen ts. Such accounts may be credited only with deposits that, under the regulations applicable when the deposit is made, are free f rom any restrictions on t rans fe r. They may not be credited w i th amounts that are transferab le to the bilateral area. They may be deb- ited for paymen ts to any fo re ign coun try, for pay- ments in Algeria, or for the provision of foreign bank- notes that the account holder intends to take out of Algeria. These accounts bear interest and may not show a net debt position. (3) Final Departure Accounts may be opened, with- out prior authorization, in the name of any physical person residing in Algeria, not of Algerian nationality, who intends to leave Algeria to re turn to the country of origin, and also for nonresident nationals. These accounts may be credited free ly w i th an amount equiva- lent to the holdings on October 20, 1963 in the account of the person concerned; with the proceeds f rom sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the f u n ds are paid directly by a notary public; with the 2 A lger ia ma in ta ins paymen ts agreements w i th A lban ia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, and U.S.S.R. Specified noncommercial settlements with Morocco and Tunisia are channeled th rough a d i rham account at the Bank of Morocco and an account in Tunisian dinars at the Central Bank of Tunisia. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and with any other payments, up to DA 2,000. The Central Bank may authorize the crediting of other specific pay- ments. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Outward transfers require individ- ual approval. Emigrant workers may maintain certain accounts in Algeria that are credited with the proceeds from the conversion of convertible currencies (comptes epargne- devises). Depositors receive a premium equivalent, in principle, to one eighth of the amounts deposited; in practice, the premium is a flexible one ensuring an effective conversion rate of DA 1 = F 1. Withdrawals may be made only in Algerian dinars. (4) Convertible Dinar Accounts for Nonresident Algerians were introduced in January 1980 as a means of attracting deposit funds f rom Algerian workers abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of origin. Law No. 78-02 of February 11, 1978 gives the Gov- ernment a monopoly over foreign trade. All imports are permitted, in principle, in accordance with an annual import program. This is implemented mainly through global import authorizations (autorisations globales d'importation, or AGI) granted to public enter- prises. There are three types of import authorizations: (1) AGI Monopole, issued to enterprises holding monopoly rights to import specified commodities; (2) AGI de fonctionnement interne, issued to individual enterprises for import requirements relating to their production activity; and (3) AGI objectif planifie, issued to enterprises for imports relating to their invest- ment program. Imports not involving use of official foreign exchange (sans paiement) and not subject to any specific prohibition are exempt from all exchange and trade control formalities when valued at DA 5,000 or less. All imports must be domiciled with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the transaction must be made. Unless the Central Bank approves otherwise, advance payments may not exceed DA 5,000 or 20 per cent of the import value, which- ever is smaller. In accordance with Law No. 80-07 of August 3, 1980, imports must be insured domestically. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles to all countries require the approval of the Central Bank. When supporting documents are presented, however, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the Postal Administration, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments such as ( 1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, 48 (2) travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) educational expenses, and (5) advertising expenses. For payments for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the granting of exchange must be authorized by either the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance. Certain public enterprises, which receive special exchange allocations (budget devises), may use these freely for payments for specified invisibles, includ- ing transportation and other services contracted abroad. The transfer of fam i ly rem i t tances is suspended. Insur- ance on all risks arranged in Algeria by Algerian resi- dents must be purchased in Algeria. Residents of other countries working in Algeria under the programs for technical cooperation or for public enterprises and agencies or for certain mixed companies may transfer abroad a percentage of their net salaries, as follows: 55 per cent for single persons and married persons having their families in Algeria; 75 per cent for persons having their families abroad; and 85 per cent for employees of mines and the hydro- carbon sector working in the southern regions. For other workers who have contracts w i th other employers and hold the necessary emp loyment documents, the amoun ts that may be t rans fe r red are 35 per cent for single persons and married persons hav ing their families in Algeria and 55 per cent for persons having their fam i l ies abroad. The payments must be transferred once a month on the basis of the remuneration for the previous month. Persons mak ing such t rans fe rs are not entitled to allocations for other personal transfers. For residents (exc lud ing those who may t rans fer a certain percentage of their net salary ab road) traveling by air or sea to foreign countries, inc lud ing countries in the French Franc Area, other than for medical rea- sons, the foreign exchange allocation is equivalent to DA 300 a person a trip (DA 150 for children under 15 years) and is delivered on presentation of a valid passport and travel vouchers; for overland travel, the allocation is DA 300 a person a calendar semester for adults and DA 150 for children under 15 years. For those traveling for medical reasons ( inc lud ing accom- pany ing persons) the allowance is DA 800 a person a tr ip and DA 400 for a child under 15 years. Foreign exchange for private business travel is subject to authorization by the Cen tral Bank and allocations may not exceed DA 1,500 a trip. Algerian workers who have permission to emigrate are entitled to an exchange allocation upon departure. Em igrant Algerian workers who take their vacations in Algeria may upon return abroad repurchase fore ign exchange equivalent to one fifth of the amount sold upon a r r iva l, but not exceed- ing DA 1,000. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia receive an alloca- tion in Saudi Arab ian riyals; the amount of this allow- ance is fixed for each pilgrimage and may be furnished in the form of checks that may be cashed on arrival for those traveling by sea or by air. Resident travelers ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution may take out Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers may also re-export any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. Certain exports, inc lud ing used equipment and machin- ery, livestock, firearms, ammun i t ion, explosives, and certain radio equipment, are prohibited regardless of destination. All other exports may, in principle, be effected freely, w i thout an export license, with the exception of exports to countries with which Algeria has bilateral paymen ts agreements (see footnote 2 ). Some commodities may be exported, subject to individ- ual prior approval, on the basis of linked transactions (transactions liees) involving at the same time an authorized import transaction. Since the promulgation of Law No. 73-02 of Feb- ruary 11, 1978, which conferred upon the Government a monopoly over foreign trade, exports may only be effected by public sector entities, unless a waiver is granted for a t rans i t ional period on a case-by-case basis. Exports must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Sales on consignment are subject to authorization by the Ministry of Finance, and registration must take place prior to customs clearance. Export proceeds must be repatriated immed ia te ly a f t er collection; the due date of the export contract must be not later than 30 days following shipment, except when prior authorization from the Central Bank is obtained. Those petroleum companies that hold m ineral rights must repatriate to Algeria the proceeds from their exports of hydrocar- bons, calculated on the basis of a contractual price a barrel that is fixed by agreement with the companies concerned. For one petroleum company holding min- eral rights, however, there are d ifferent repatriation requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and surrendered. Savings repatriated in the form of con- vertible currencies by Algerians working abroad are eligible for an encouragement premium. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes, coin (except gold co in ), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresidents, including those of Algerian nationality, must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Resident travelers may reimport Algerian dinar bank- notes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian banknotes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender ALGERIA capital assets (or the sales proceeds the reo f) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any destination are subject to individual license; residents are not norma l ly permitted to acquire capital assets outside Algeria. All borrowing abroad or from non- residents is subject to prior approval by the Minister of Finance or the Central Bank. The Investment Code of September 15, 1966 provides for state guaran tees in re'spect of fore ign investments of more than DA 500,000 in the indus tr ial and tourist sectors and for a re t rans fer guaran tee in respect of the sale or l iqu ida t ion proceeds of invested fo re ign capital. It also establishes that profit remittances on such invest- men ts will be permitted up to 15 per cent annua l ly of the foreign capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be g ran ted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a speci- fied geographic area and may be accorded ta r i ff protec- tion. Rem i t tances of profits and re t rans fe rs of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under the code. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for num isma t ic purposes. Under Ordinance No. 70-6 of Janua ry 16, 1970, unworked gold for indus- t r ial and profess ional use is distributed by the Agence Nationale pour la Distribution et la Transforma t ion de TOr et des Autres Metaux Precieux (AGENOR ). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious metal, including gold. Imports of gold for use by dentists and goldsmiths are made by AGENOR, under import licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Changes during 1981 March 18. The state enterprise Societe Nationale des Constructions Metallurgiques (SNMETAL) was given monopoly over the importation of a wide range of metal construction materials. May 5. The Minister of Commerce introduced Cir- cu lar No. 21 DG Gl-DMP, specifying, inter alia, the financial and management requirements that foreign firms must meet to qua l i fy for the supply of material and services to Algeria. July 12. The state enterprise in the chemical indus- try, Societe Nationale des Industries Chemiques (SNIC), was given monopoly over the importation of specified chemical products. 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA1 (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the East Caribbean dollar,2 which is issued by the East Carib- bean Currency Authority. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Au thor i ty also quotes daily rates for the Canad ian dollar and the pound sterling. All foreign exchange transactions are subject to a levy of 1 per cent; the m in imum levy is EC$1 a transaction. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all currencies. Export licens- ing is required for a range of products, particularly those subject to export duties. Import licenses are issued by the Commission of In land Revenue under the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM) 3 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in East Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency or in East Caribbean dollars. Settlements involving South Afr ican currency are not permitted. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresidents with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and may be ma in ta ined in any currency requested, but American servicemen and employees of the U.S. Government and international agencies only need the authorized com- mercial bank's approval. A few residents —firms and individuals —are also allowed to open external accounts. External accounts can be credited only with proceeds f rom the sale of foreign currencies and with transfers f rom other External Accounts but not with payments by residents. Commercial banks are required to report external accounts operations to the Ministry of Finance on a quarterly basis. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Afr ica are prohibited. Most goods may be f ree ly imported under open general 1 An t igua and Barbuda became a member of the Fund on Feb- r u a ry 25, 1982. 2 The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Dominica, G renada, Mon tserra t, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenad ines. 3 The CARICOM countries are An t igua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis- Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 50 license granted by the M in is try of Finance. Certain other commodities require ind iv idual licenses, unless imported f rom CARICOM countries. Antigua and Bar- buda follows the new CARICOM rules of origin adopted in J u ne 1981. Payments for authorized imports are pe rm i t ted upon application and submission of documen- ta ry evidence. Au tho r i ty is delegated to commercial banks to endorse application fo rms for import licenses a f ter con f i rm ing sight of documents. Impor ts that are exempt f rom import duties include basic foods and agr icu l tural imports. All other exemp- tions, for mach inery, equipment, and raw materials, are granted on a case-by-case basis and generally under the Fiscal Incentives Act and the Hotel Incentives Act. Import duties range f rom 5 per cent to 40 per cent and are scheduled to be brought into line with the 35 per cent CARICOM common external ta r i ff by the end of 1982. All imports are subject to a stamp duty. Payments for Invisibles Residents may purchase fore ign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of US$750 a t r ip outside the East Caribbean Currency A rea; how- ever, this limit may be exceeded with permission from the Ministry of Finance. In terms of CARICOM travelers checks (wh ich are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago cu r r en cy ), the basic allowance is TT$500 a trip for holiday travel, TT$2,500 a trip for business, and TT$3,000 a trip for medical expenses. Official authori- zation is required beyond these limits. There are no limits on the amount of local currency that may be taken out of the country. Profits may be remitted in fu l l, subject to conf irma t ion by the Commission of In land Revenue of reg is tra t ion for corporate income tax purposes. Student remittances are usually exempted f rom the fo re ign exchange levy. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required for certain commodi- ties to any des t ina t ion. No surrender of export pro- ceeds is required, and re-exports are not subject to any tax as they take place w i th in the bonded area. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers to An t igua and Barbuda may bring in free ly notes and coins denominated in East Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Foreign currency coin is not normally exchanged. U.S. and Canadian currency for checks and d ra f ts for U.S. or Canad ian currency can be tendered up to US$1,000 w i thout restriction and w i th no levy; for amoun ts over US$1,000 M in is try of Finance approval must be obtained. Levy exemptions for transfers for charity purposes are exempted from all other levies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital There are no legislated restrictions on capital move- ments. Foreign investment is granted the same incen- tives as domestic investment under the Fiscal Incentives Act and the Hotel Incentives Act. Large transfers abroad for investment purposes can be phased over time by the Financial Secretary. ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA Gold There are no restrictions on imports of gold, Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA1 (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Argentina is the Argentine Peso. Since December 24, 1981 the authorities have adopted an arrangement under which the Argentine peso is allowed to float in the foreign exchange marke t. On December 31, 1981 the closing rate for the U.S. dollar was $a 10,600 per US$1 (se l l ing). Transactions are allowed in certain other currencies,2 with daily quo- tations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on markets abroad.3 Purchases and sales of fore ign exchange are subject to a tax of 0.6 per cent. Forward exchange operations are permitted in the pri- vate sector with maturities of up to 180 days and at rates agreed by buyers and sellers. Argentina forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out through entities authorized expressly for this purpose. These authorized entities include banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, and exchange offices; each of these types of institutions may be subject to separate regulation. Prescription of Currency Virtually all payments between Argen t ina and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecua- dor, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, under reciprocal credit agreements within the f rame- work of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LA IA ). Argentina and Cuba maintain a reciprocal credit arrangement by means of special accounts in each central bank, through which transactions between the two countries are settled; the limit under these accounts is US$10 million. Transactions with other countries must be settled in freely usable currencies. 1 In addition to the restrictive measures that were taken for security reasons on April 5 and 14, 1982 against the United K ingdom, A rgen- t ina d u r i ng the period April 20-May 26, 1982 in troduced a number of changes in the exchange and t rade sys tem, inc lud ing deva lua t ion of the A rgen t ine peso, mod if ica t ions in export su r render requ i remen ts, restrictions on certain types of ou twa rd rem i t tances, imposition of m in imum terms for import paymen t, and a tempo ra ry ban on non- essential imports. 2 Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f r an c s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 3 From June to December an exchange gua ran tee scheme existed for p r iva te financial debt, which was renewed or contracted for a mini- mum specified period of time. The exchange guarantee scheme was originally introduced on June 5, 1981 for amortization payments only but was expanded in September and November to cover interest pay- ments; the scheme was canceled on December 24, 1981, but ex is t ing contracts continued to be honored by the Central Bank. 52 Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos and in fo re ign exchange in the name of any nonres iden t, provided that the accounts are cred i ted w i th rem i t tances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonresident accoun ts may be used f r e e ly for any purpose, in Argen- t i na or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be effec ted freely, except in payment for exports. Imports and Import Payments Import paymen ts may be made in any conver t ib le currency. All impor ts by the p r iv a te sector valued at US$1,000 or more ( f .o .b .) require a sworn Declaration of Need to Import (Declaration Jurada de Necesidad de Importation) subm i t ted by the importer to the Na t ional Impo rt Directorate. Reg is tra t ion of the decla- ra t ion is automatic. Public sector imports require approval by the Central Bank w i th regard to debt. In add i t ion to customs du t ies, imports are subject to the fo l low ing taxes: a s tamp du ty of 0.6 per cent and selective in te rnal taxes rang ing f rom 5 per cent to 22 per cent. Impor ts of merchand ise in general may be fu l ly paid for aga inst sh ipmen t. For capital goods, advance pay- ment of up to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value is per- m i t ted. The liabilities incu r red may be partially or en t ire ly discharged prior to the originally agreed dead- lines, regardless of the in s t rum ent used. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made f ree ly. Sales of fo re ign currency, notes, and gold w i th a sworn declaration of purpose may be f ree ly effec ted up to US$20,000 a person a day. There are no l im i ts w i th respect to purchases of for- eign currency by A rgen t ine residents for travel pur- poses. Travelers may take out any amount in fore ign bankno tes and domestic coin, inc lud ing gold coin and "good delivery" gold bars. Exports and Export Proceeds M in imum export prices ( re fe rence pr ices) are estab- lished for many ag r icu l tu ral and livestock exports as a basis for the payment of duties and the surrender of export proceeds. The fu ll f.o.b. proceeds f rom all exports must be repa tr ia ted and su r rende red; the pro- ceeds must not be less than the re fe rence price, or if the re is no reference price, the f.o.b. value declared on the shipping perm i t. Proceeds may be received in any convertible currency. Proceeds of trad i t ional exports must be received before shipment, by means of advance paymen ts or irrevocable letters of credit payable against shipping documents in Argen t ina. Proceeds f rom pro- moted exports must be repa tr ia ted within 180 days f rom the date of shipment. In both cases, export proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA credits in free ly convertible foreign cu r rency; intangible assets (bienes must be surrendered within 15 working days f rom the respective time limits. Certain nontraditional exports are eligible for rebates (reintegro and reembolso) ± An export tax of 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value or reference price (valor indice), as appropr ia te, is levied on products classified as trad i t ional exports, pursuant to Resolution No. 2 of the Ministry of Economy. Many exports, particularly nontraditional exports, are eligible for export incentives of various kinds.5 The Central Bank has established a system of special financ- ing, to be granted to Argen t ine exporters through banks, with a view to promoting exports of certain goods and services.6 Certan iproducts, mostly non trad t ional exports, may be shipped "on consignment" for 360 days; if not sold within that period, the goods must be re turned to Argentina. Proceeds front Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles need not be sur- rendered. Travelers may b r ing in freely any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes and coin, as well as gold coin and "good delivery'* gold bars. Capital Proceeds from fore ign loans must be sold in the exchange market. In general, there are no limitations on inward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. The inflow of financial loans under taken by local foreign-owned enterprises and originating f rom foreign enterprises which either directly or indirectly control the borrowing enterprises or are their subsidiaries require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Loans endorsed or guaranteed by the State also require prior authorization f rom the Central Bank. Banks may accept foreign currency deposits with m in imum ma tur i- ties of 7 days and lend the proceeds domestically at freely determined rates of interest. Foreign borrow- ing by the public sector is regulated by Decree-Law No. 19328 of October 29, 1971 and Decree No. 3532 of November 25, 1975. Outward capital transfers are subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. The foreign investment regime is regulated by Law No. 21382 (Decree-Regulation No. 283 of February 4, 1977) and by amendments introduced by Law No. 22208 promu lga ted by Decree No. 1062 of June 30, 1980, as well as by Decree No. 103 of January 19, 1981. Invest- ments may be made in freely convertible fore ign cur- rency; new or used capital goods and their spare parts and accessories; profits and capital in Argentine pesos belonging to fore ign investors, provided that they are legally transferab le abroad; capitalization of external 4 A reembolso involves re imbu r sement to the expo r ter of t a r i f fs and other customs charges on the imported inputs used in production for exports; a reintegro is a r e fund of domestic taxes levied on inputs used in production for export. 5 In a mod i f ica t ion of benef i ts available to eligible expor ts under the reembolso system, M in is try of Economy Resolution No. 2 of 1981 replaced the benefit range of 4 per cent to 25 per cent by a range of 4 per cent to 10 per cent. "The A rgen t ine Export Credit Insu rance Company provides credit insurance against commercial and o rd ina ry risks and also coverage for ex traord inary risks and for exports of capital goods and con- sumer durables and certain other consumer goods. ARGENTINA inscription and definitive recognition. Existing and new fore ign investments, as well as all capital movements relating thereto, may be recorded in the Register of Foreign Investments, which is kept by the Central Bank. Registered fore ign investments may generally be repa- tr ia ted three years af ter en try in to Argentina, unless a longer period was fixed when the investment was approved. The right to t rans fer profits and to repatriate capital related to properly registered investments can be suspended only by the Na t ional Executive. In that event, registered foreign investors are entitled to receive, for the remittance of profits abroad, the equivalent of the sum to be transferred in external public debt securi- ties denominated in foreign currency, at the rate of interest ru l ing in the international market, against pro- vision of the equivalent in Argentine pesos. Profits in money or in kind on registered foreign capital are subject to a special tax on af ter- tax profit when they exceed 12 per cent of registered capital on an annual basis. This tax is 15 per cent on profits of more than 12 per cent and up to 15 per cent of registered capital, 20 per cent for those of more than 15 per cent and up to 20 per cent of registered capital, and 25 per cent for those of more than 20 per cent of registered capital. The extension of domestic credit to "domestic firms with foreign capital" is subject to special provisions, as set fo r th in Law No. 21382 (Article 17) and Decree No. 283 /77 (Article 71, as amended in 1980). Gold Residents may hold gold coin and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Financial institutions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coin or "good delivery" bars among themselves or with customers in Argentina or abroad. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are sub- ject to a statistical duty of 0.6 per cent, and those by other users are subject in addition to sales tax. Changes during 1981 January 19. Regulations on inward foreign invest- ment were relaxed as follows: (a) examination and approval of foreign investments were centralized in the Under Secretariat for Foreign Investment in the Min- istry of Economy; (b) preference would be given to new investment in priority sectors and to ventures involving at least 51 per cent of local participation; and (c) repatriation of capital would be allowed after an initial three-year period, provided that the continuity of the local firm was assured (Decree No. 103 of the Ministry of Finance). February 3. The Argentine peso was devalued by 10 per cent against the U.S. dollar and at the same time a schedule of daily buying and selling regulation rates was announced for the period Feb- ruary 3-August 31, 1981. The Central Bank was to 54 in tervene in the foreign exchange market if the buying or selling rates exceeded the band created by the announced regulation rates (Circular No. R. C. 929 of the Central Bank of Argen t ina). March 20. Foreign exchange purchases exceeding US$20,000 in each case were made subject to a written declaration of purpose (Telephone Communication No. 4486 of the Central Bank of A rg en t in a ). April 1. The tar iff reform program initiated in Janua ry 1979 was suspended. April 2. The following changes were made in the exchange a r rangemen t: (a) the prac t ice of pre- announcing the exchange rate was discontinued, and it was decided that the Central Bank would determine daily the spot selling and buy ing regulation rates of the Argentine peso for the U.S. dollar; (b) the rates would be adjusted by small amoun ts at f requent intervals in the f u t u r e; and (c) the spot selling rate of the peso against the U.S. dollar was ad jus ted by 30.1 per cent and the spot buy ing rate by 32.^ per cent. (Foreign exchange earnings on exports declared to the Jun ta Nacional de Granos by April 1, 1981 that either paid export taxes or received rebates would be converted at the exchange rate prevailing on April 1, 1981 — Communication A, No. 16 of the Central Bank .) April 2. The following measures were introduced in conjunction with the depreciation of the peso: (a) a 12 per cent tax was imposed on exports of cereals, meat, and other products, to be gradua l ly reduced for cereals beginning May 1, 1981, eliminated for grain cereals by November 1, 1981, and for coarse grain cereals by March 1, 1982; (b) a 10 per cent tax was levied on exports of various food products inc lud ing wheat flour, vegetable oils, and cereal products; (c) export rebates for specified products, including f ru i ts, tomatoes, cotton, tea, milk, and wool, were reduced by 3 percentage points; and (d) with the exception of those for motor vehicles, import duties at the max imum levels were reduced by 12 percentage points but to levels which may not be below 43 per cent (Communication A, No. 16 of the Central B ank ). April 2. The declaration requirement for foreign exchange purchases exceeding US$20,000 was elimi- nated (Communication B, No. 35 of the Central B a n k ). May 29. Au tho r iza t ion was granted for risk-contract exploration and development of u ran ium by fore ign p r iva te companies in jo int ventures with the Argentina Nuc lear Agency on a 50-50 basis; a maximum of 25 per cent of the production must be exported and the balance would be required to be sold to the Nuclear Agency. June 2. The following changes were made in the exchange arrangemen t: (a) the regulation spot selling and buy ing rates of the Argentine peso against the U.S. dollar were changed f rom $a 3,284 to $a 4,269 per US$1 and f rom $a 3,274 to $a 4,249 per US$1, respectively, representing a depreciation of about 30 per cent in terms of pesos per U.S. dollar; (b) it was ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution announced that the Argentine peso would be depre- ciated by 6 per cent in terms of pesos per U.S. dollar during June, and thereaf ter the exchange rate would be adjusted to maintain the real exchange rate of the peso at its June 30, 1981 level; (c) the Central Bank would continue to determine daily the spot selling and buying regulation rates and to intervene in the foreign exchange market if the band was exceeded; (d) the declaration requirement for purchases of foreign exchange was rein- stated, irrespective of amounts involved; and (e) the maximum delay for repatriating foreign exchange receipts from traditional merchandise exports was short- ened from 180 calendar days to 30 calendar days f rom the date of shipment (Communication A, No. 30 of the Central B a n k ). June 4. It was decided that private holders of foreign financial debt contracted a f ter Janua ry 1, 1981, which fell due af ter May 29 but not later than December 31, 1981, and which was renewed for a period of at least one year, would be entitled to the difference in pesos between the exchange rates in effect on May 29, 1981 and June 2, 1981, adjusted on the basis of the U.S. dol- lar exchange rate on the latter da te and the ma tur i ty date of the new obligation (Communication B, No. 69 of the Central Bank ). June 4. Financial assistance for the production of eligible goods under the system of prefinancing for spec- ified exports was increased, and the credit terms were extended in certain cases; the period of financing for foreign sales of specified products was also extended to one year (Central Bank Circular No. R.F. 1422). June 5. To encourage new foreign borrowing as well as longer maturities, changes were made in existing regulations as follows: (a) an exchange rate guarantee scheme for amortization payments only was introduced, under which private financial loans contracted or renewed from this date would be eligible for guarantee provided that the proceeds were surrendered by financial intermediaries to the Central Bank at the official exchange rate and the loans were contracted or renewed for at least 540 days; (b) exchange rate guarantees for loans with maturities exceeding two years would be considered on a case-by-case basis; and (c) a premium would be charged by the Central Bank for the exchange rate guarantee (Communication A, No. 31 of the Cen- tral B ank ). June 22. Changes were made in export and import regulations as follows: (a) the proceeds f rom traditional exports with shipping permits validated af ter June 22, 1981 would be required to be received before shipment, by means of advance payments or irrevocable letters of credit payable against the shipping documentation; (b) proceeds from promoted exports would be required to be repatriated within 180 days from the date of ship- ment; and (c) payments for imports of general mer- chandise should not be made before 180 days f rom the date of shipment, with the exception of payments for printed matter, fresh fruits received on consignment, ARGENTINA and imports of inputs for export industries (Communi- cation A, No. 39 of the Central B a n k ). June 22. The foreign exchange market was split in to a commercial market and a financial market, with the following fea tures: (a) the Central Bank would quote daily the exchange rate between the peso and the U.S. dollar in the commercial marke t; (b) transactions eligible for the commercial market were specified as payments for nongold imports, the f.o.b. value of tra- ditional exports, and 90 per cent of the f.o.b. value of "promoted exports"; amortization paymen ts on foreign loans, the proceeds of which were sold in the foreign exchange market on or before June 19, 1981, provided that such loans fa l l ing due on or a f ter this date were renewed for a term of at least one year, and were registered with the Central Bank; and (c) determina- tion of the exchange rate in the f inanc ial market would be left to market forces (Commun ica t ion A, No. 40 of the Central B a n k ). July 23. The limit on the repatriation of proceeds of export of dried vegetables, fuels, quebracho extracts, tobacco, and scoured wool was extended to 90 days. In add i t ion, imports from countries of the Latin Ameri- can Integration Association, imports of printed matter, and imports for use in the An tarc t ic zones were excluded f rom the minimum waiting period of 180 days for pay- ment (Communication A, No. 48 of the Central B a n k ). August 5. Changes were made in export taxes and export regulations as follows: (a) export taxes were e l im ina ted and various agricultural export products were made eligible for reembolsos (i.e., reimbursement of levies on imported inputs for export p roduc t ion ); (b) most of the export taxes introduced on April 2, 1981 were abolished, with the exception of those on coarse grain shipments, which were scheduled to be removed by March 1, 1982; and (c) reembolsos were introduced at a rate of 4 per cent for exports of meat products, 5 per cent for flour and other foodstuffs, and 10 per cent for exports of edible oils, bakery products, and oilseed products (Resolution No. 284 of the Minis- try of Economy). August 14. Facilities were improved regarding exchange rate guarantee 180 days prior to maturity of obligations, subject to rollover for a period of not less than 540 days. September 24. The exchange rate guarantee scheme for private financial debt was modified as follows: (a) the guarantee would be given for a maximum of 50 per cent of the foreign f inanc ial loans of private sector enterprises, provided that the funds had entered the country by June 19, 1981, where debt was out- standing on June 30, 1981, would ma ture on or before December 31, 1983, and were rolled over for a period of at least 540 days and a maximum of three years; and (b) in addition to amortization payments, interest pay- ments (current and f u t u r e) could be covered by the guarantee as long as such payments were postponed until the final amortization payment was due, which 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA would be thus coterminous with the liquidation of the guarantee (Communication A, No. 61 of the Central B ank ). October 6. Imports of fertilizers, pesticides, herbi- cides, and veterinary products were exempted from the m in imum waiting period of 180 days for payment (Communication A, No. 63 of the Central B ank ). October 20. An additional reembolso of 15 per cent was granted to increases exceeding US$10,000 in spec- ified industrial exports above levels reached between July 1, 1980 and June 30, 1981 (Decree No. 1691). October 23. Automobile imports under international automobile trade and investment agreements approved by the Ministry of Indus try and Mining were exempted from the m in imum 180-day waiting period for payment (Communication A, No. 66 of the Central Bank ). November 30. It was announced that individual buyers could freely purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks only up to the equivalent of US$1,000 a day; the same limit would apply to sales of gold coin and bars (Communication A, No. 73 of the Central B a n k ). November 30. Facilities for fo rwa rd transactions were expanded as follows: authorized banks were per- mitted to effect sales of foreign exchange for any pur- pose prior to the maturity of contract or after, using foreign exchange obtained f rom abroad or acquired on the market for offsetting purposes; in addition, fo rwa rd sales could be made for all purposes for which spot sales are authorized (i.e., excluding sales for purposes of investment loans, advances, or foreign exchange deposits within or outside A rgen t ina ), and to offset forward purchases (Communication A, No. 74 of the Central Bank ). November 30. The Central Bank was authorized to carry out swap operations in the financial market for the purpose of enabling agricultural, mining, and manu- fac tur ing enterprises to cover their foreign exchange loans; such swap operations would be required to be conducted for a period of 180 days at an exchange rate to be determined by the Central Bank (Communica- tion A, No. 75 of the Central B a n k ). November 30. The exchange rate guarantee scheme was extended to cover all interest payments on private financial debt outstanding on June 30, but the scheme continued to be limited to 50 per cent of the amortiza- tion paymen ts (Communication A, No. 76 of the Cen- t ral B a n k ). December 24. Changes were made in the exchange arrangement as follows: (a) the commercial and finan- cial foreign exchange ma rke ts were un if ied, and the peso was allowed to float; (b) unrestricted sales of for- eign exchange and gold ( for which the obligation to complete a sworn declaration of purpose was re ta ined) were increased from US$1,000 to the equ iva lent of US$20,000 a person a day; (c) the swap arrangemen ts ins t i tu ted by the Central Bank on November 30, 1981 were rescinded, but the operations already negotiated would be honored; (d) transac t ions in fore ign exchange fu tu res would continue in the un if ied marke t; (e) the exchange rate guarantee scheme was discontinued but existing contracts would be honored by the Central Bank; and (f) the obligatory pos tponement of payment for 180 days for imports of general merchandise was abolished (Commun ica t ion A, No. 84 of the Central B a n k ). December 24. M in imum and max imum import du ty rates were reduced f rom 5 per cent and 48 per cent to 10 per cent and 43 per cent, respectively (Resolution No. 1 of the Ministry of Economy). December 24. A 10 per cent export du ty was intro- duced on all exports not receiving reembolsos, and exist- ing reembolsos rates exceeding 10 per cent were reduced to 10 per cent, with the exception of reembolsos given und er special regimes (Reso lu t ion No. 2 of the Ministry of Economy ). December 29. Changes were made in existing regu- lations as follows: (a) proceeds from exports registered w i th the customs before December 24, 1981 would be required to be sold to the Central Bank at the exchange rate preva i l ing on December 23, 1981; (b) in the case of export products for which 10 per cent of proceeds could previously be negotiated in the financial market and which had been shipped by December 23, 1981, 10 per cent of the proceeds were allowed to be con- verted at the un if ied exchange ra te; and ( c) the Central Bank was authorized to announce da i ly the conversion rate for grain exports which had been declared to the Jun ta Nacional de Granos up to December 23, 1981 (Communication A, No. 86 of the Central Bank ). 56 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Australia is the Australian Dollar.1 The exchange rate of the Aus tra l ian dollar is determined by reference to a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The level of the exchange rate as measured by the index of the va lue of the Aus tra l ian dollar in te rms of the trade-weighted basket is kept under review and is changed when assessment of all relevant economic factors indicates a need for movement of the rate. A middle rate for the Aus t ra l ian dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar ( the in te rven t ion cu r rency) is announced each day by the Reserve Bank of Aus tra l ia. Official limits are set at or w i th in wh ich banks are to effect spot transactions with the public in U.S. dollars. On Decem- ber 31, 1981 the au thor i t ies set a m idd le rate for the U.S. dollar of $A 1 = US$1.1279 and the official limits were US$1.303 and US$1.255 for spot transactions. Exchange rates for other currencies are not officially posted, and banks are free to de term ine the ir own spot rates for all other currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. The t rad ing banks, in conjunction with the Reserve Bank, provide fo rw a rd exchange cover to residents for trade t ransac t ions and some trade-re la ted trans- actions in invisibles. In respect of th is fac i l i ty, the Reserve Bank provides fo rwa rd cover to the t rad ing banks in U.S. do l lars. In add i t ion, there is a fore ign currency hedge ma rket in which the t rad ing banks and some merchant banks ma tch the currency hedge require- ments of their customers at market-determined rates. Forward cover on this market can be arranged for any type of cu r rent or cap i tal transac t ion and may be obtained for any currency subject to market ava i lab i l i ty. The market is restricted to Aus t ra l ian residents and no arb i trage is pe rm i t ted between the Aus t ra l ian and in terna t ional marke ts. All settlements are effected in Aus tra l ian dollars. Australia forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from Ju ly 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is de term ined by the Govern- ment with the advice of the Depar tment of the Treasury and of the Reserve Bank. The Reserve Bank administers the exchange control in accordance with the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations under the Bank ing Act, 1959 and delegates considerable discretionary powers to the t rad ing banks authorized to handle foreign exchange transac t ions. Import and export controls are imposed on cer ta in commodities pu rsuant to the Cus- toms Act. These controls are administered by the rele- vant Ministers and Departments according to regulations under that Act. Prescription of Currency Where imports are invoiced in Australian dollars, paymen ts may be made in Aus tra l ian currency through the account of an overseas bank with a bank in Aus- tra l ia, or in any foreign currency;2 if imports are invoiced in fore ign currency, payment must be made in foreign currency. Proceeds f rom exports may be received in Aus t ra l ian currency f rom an account of an overseas bank with a bank in Australia, or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of nonresidents are subject to approval, which is granted in the same circumstances and subject to the same conditions as if a t rans fer to the country of residence of the account holder were involved. Transfers are allowed, on application, between accounts of nonresidents. However, special rules apply to overseas banks, central banks, governments, and government agencies; basically, they may hold essential wo rk ing balances and are not permitted to invest at interest. The balance on an account held by any non- resident may be w i thdrawn in convertible currency. There are no blocked accounts. Nonresidents are generally not permitted to borrow in Aus tra l ia. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported w i thout import licenses, and no restrictions are imposed on paymen ts for imports. Payments for imports normally must be made not earlier than the date of shipment or one month before the arrival of the goods in Australia, and not later than six months af ter the arrival of the goods in Australia; con- sent to longer periods is given only where it is estab- lished that longer periods are normal commercial prac- tice. Import restrictions are imposed on certain goods, although not for exchange control purposes; the restric- tions are maintained mainly for reasons of industry assistance, health, community protection, or security, or to sustain quality standards. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control, but they are not restricted. The control operates p r ima r i ly to prevent unauthorized capital t ran s fe r s; in addition, remittances to Vanuatu are subject to a screen- ing procedure to ensure that no tax m in im iza t ion trans- actions are involved. Applications for outward transfers 1 The Aus tra l ian dollar also circulates in a number of other countries, including Kiribati, N au ru, Tuvalu, and Vanua tu. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA in connection with current invisibles are normally dealt with immediately by banks; forms do not generally have to be filled out for amounts under $A 2,000, and banks generally need not report these smaller transfers to the Reserve Bank. There is no prescribed limit on travel funds. Banks may approve for each person up to $A 4,000 for any one journey plus, for journeys of more than two months, $ A 1,500 for each additional month up to a total of $A 10,000 a person; additional amounts may be approved by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that the exchange is to be used for bona fide travel expenses. Similarly, no specific limits are placed on remittances for fam i ly maintenance and gifts, but beyond certain amounts, applications must be referred to the exchange control authorities; such applications are treated liberally. Payment to overseas suppliers of services must be made not later than six months af ter the date when it is contractually due; consent to longer deferment is given only where it is established that longer periods are normal commercial practice. Dividends and interest due to overseas residents must be paid within one month of the date on which they become payable. Foreign exchange is not normally provided to enable residents to take out personal life insurance with foreign insurers. Travelers may take out, without special authorization, up to $A 250 in Australian currency notes plus $A 5 in Australian coin. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may take out without formality any amount in foreign currency or Australian currency instruments (other than Australian dollar notes) provided that they brought them into Australia. Exports and Export Proceeds Export permits or licenses are not required except in respect of goods covered by the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations, Customs (Endangered Species) Regulations, and regulations administered by the Depart- ment of Primary Industry to provide quality controls over certain primary products. The obligation to account for export proceeds rests directly on the exporter. Pro- ceeds of exports of all commodities, unless otherwise authorized, must be received in Australia in a currency and* within a period approved by the Reserve Bank. The approved period is defined as being as soon as practicable a f ter the date on which payment is made to the exporter, and not later than six months a f ter exportation nor earlier than one month before exporta- tion. Longer periods are allowed only where the pay- ment arrangements are in accordance with normal com- mercial practice. Under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations, the export of specified goods is prohibited unless permis- sion to export is granted. Export permits are issued for goods or products approved for export by the appro- priate controlling authority. The regulations apply to certain raw or semiprocessed minerals, metals, fuels, 58 and petroleum products, the fundamen tal objective being the protection of national interests. In particular, the controls are used, where necessary ( 1) to ensure that fa ir and reasonable market prices are obtained; (2) to ensure that adequate supplies of ma ter ia ls are available to domestic industry; (3) to meet international and strategic obligations; (4) to ensure that the Govern- ment's nuclear safeguards and physical protection requirements on exports are met, consistent with Aus- tralia's international obligations in relation to nuclear trade, u ran ium and nuclear materials; and (5) to take account of environmental considerations. The Govern- ment follows the general principle that exporters should be the sole negotiators for export contracts and that the market should determine prices; generally the export control power is not used but is held in reserve to be used if and when the need arises, consistent with the need to protect the national interest. Controls are avail- able to facilitate the observance of Australia's obliga- tions under international commodity agreements, to complement orderly marketing arrangemen ts under Australian legislation, and to provide that domestic needs for certain agricultural and industrial inputs are satisfied ahead of export demands. There are provisions for government control over the export of defense material. Controls also exist over exports of Australian- registered ships. These controls are exercised to ensure that an adequate fleet of vessels remains available for local purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings of invisibles in foreign currencies may be disposed of only with permission. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes for travel expenditure. Capital All transfers of capital f rom Australia require approval. Lending overseas by residents is normally not permitted other than in association with direct investments. Proposals for direct investment over- seas are considered on a case-by-case basis. Transfers abroad for direct investment involving the export of a significant measure of Aus tra l ian managerial or tech- nical skills are readily approved. Approval is also readily given for all types of inves tment which promote Australian exports or protect existing Aus t ra l ian invest- ments abroad. Approval is normally granted for the repatriation of capital by nonresidents, but no advance commitments are given. The export of securities and transactions in foreign securities are subject to approval. Exchange control policy on portfolio investment overseas places no monetary limits on acquisitions of equity and real estate. For portfolio investments in eligible fixed-interest securities, there are limits in any financial year of $A 10,000 for individuals, $A 100,000 for substantial private companies, and $A 1 million for public companies and institutions. Eligible fixed-inter- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution est securities are those that are traded on a recognized overseas market and have at the date of purchase not less than one year to reach ma tur i ty. Investments in bank money market and similar short-term deposits as well as loans to nonresidents are not perm i t ted. Resi- dents are normally permitted to reinvest the proceeds from sales of foreign securities. When exchange con- trol approval is being sought, inves tment in and other transactions of a capital na ture w i th countries desig- nated for tax screening purposes 3 require a tax clear- ance certificate f rom the Commissioner of Taxation. Approval is required for residents to borrow Austra- lian or foreign currency from any nonresident, or to incur a liability to a nonresident other than in cases associated with the purchase of goods. In addition, residents are requ ired to obtain approval to draw, issue, or negotiate any bill of exchange or promissory note, to enter in to contracts (except for the purchase of goods) or to acknowledge debts so that actual or contingent rights to payments or any other valuable consideration or services are created in favor of any nonresident, or to allot or t rans fer securities to or regis- ter securities in the name of any nonresident. Guar- antees in Australian or fore ign currency by or on behalf of Aus tra l ian residents are authorized where the underlying transactions conform to exchange control policy. Inward equity investment requires exchange control approval, but stockbrokers have been autho- rized to deal in most stock exchange securities on behalf of nonresidents. A distinction is made between exchange control obligations and foreign investment policy obligations. The Government's policy on foreign investment is basically one of encouragement because of the contri- bution foreign investment has made, and is expected to make, to the development of Aus tra l ia's industries and resources. The Government is advised on indi- vidual proposals and on foreign investment matters generally by the Foreign Inves tment Review Board. Certain foreign investment proposals are examined to ensure that they harmonize with Aus tra l ia's interests. The foreign investment policy obligations apply to certain categories of foreign investment whether or not exchange control approval is required to t ran s fer funds into Australia to finance such investment. The exami- nation procedures recognize the need to avoid unneces- sary interference w i th normal commercial processes. The following types of proposals are subject to exami- nation: (a) proposals fa l l ing w i th in the scope of the Foreign Takeovers Act, including any acquisition of shares or assets that would result in or increase a substantial foreign interest in an Aus tra l ian company (a substantial foreign interest is defined to cover a holding of 15 per cent or more of the issued shares or 3 These are listed as Bahamas, Bermuda, British Channel Islands, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Gibraltar, Grenada, Hong Kong, Isle of Man, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Nau ru, Nether- lands Antilles, Panama, Switzerland, Tonga, and Vanuatu. AUSTRALIA vo t ing power of a company by a single or associated foreign interest and a holding of a total of 40 per cent or more by two or more foreign in te res ts ); (b) pro- posals to establish a new business or project, irrespec- tive of size, in the areas of f inance, insurance, the media, civil aviation, and u ran ium and uranium-related activities; (c) proposals to establish new business in other sectors of the economy, where the total amount of the investment is $A 5 million or more, including new projects in m in ing and other na tu ral resource industries; (d) direct investments by fore ign govern- ments or their agencies, i.e., other than por tfo l io invest- ments or investments related to their official representa- tion; and (e) proposals to acquire real estate valued at $A 350,000 or more. The Government seeks to ensure that fo re ign invest- ment is in accord with Australia's interests by maximiz- ing the benefits and m in im i z ing any disadvantages of such investment. Each proposal is considered on its merits to assess whether it would produce net economic benef i ts in relation to such ma t ters as competition and efficiency, the introduction of new technology or man- agerial or work force skills, improvements in the industrial or commercial structure of the economy, and access to new export markets. If the proposal is judged on the basis of these criteria to be not contrary to the national interest, it is considered against other c r i te r ia such as the level of Aus t ra l ian equity partici- pation, management and control fo l low ing implemen- tation of the proposal, and con fo rm i ty of the proposal with other government policies. There are specific guidelines concerning Aus t ra l ian equ i ty participation in proposals for investment in the na tu ral resources sector. A proposed new project for the mining and production of u r a n i um should have a m in imum of 75 per cent Aus t ra l ian equity and it should be Aus tra l ian controlled. Only in cases where 75 per cent Australian equity is clearly unob ta inab le will alternative proposals be considered. In such cases it needs to be demonstrated that 75 per cent Aus tra l ian equ i ty is unavailable, that the project wou ld be of significant economic benefit to Aus t ra l ia, that there would be at least 50 per cent Australian equity, and that Aus t ra l ians would have the ma jor role in deter- m in ing the policy of the project. Where projects do not have 75 per cent Aus tra l ian equ i ty and control, arrangements may be required to increase the level of Australian participation over an agreed period. Other projects in the natural resources sector are, as a general rule, only allowed to proceed provided they have a minimum of 50 per cent Australian equity with at least 50 per cent of the voting s t reng th of the Board held by Australian interests. However, projects may be approved with less than 50 per cent Aus tra l ian equity, provided they are not otherwise con trary to the national interest and the Government judges that the unava i lab i l i ty of sufficient Aus t ra l ian equ i ty capital on reasonable terms and conditions would unduly 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA delay the development of Australia's na tu ral resources. In this event, the Government seeks, as appropriate, satisfactory arrangements for Aus tra l ian equity to be increased to at least 50 per cent within an agreed period. A framework and an incentive have been established for the "naturalization" of foreign-owned companies that have significant Australian shareholdings. Under the provisions, a company may be granted na tura l ized status (if it is at least 51 per cent Aus tra l ian owned and has a ma jor i ty of Aus tra l ian citizens on its Boa rd) or naturalizing status (if it has at least 25 per cent Australian equity, a majority of Australian citizens on its Board, and it makes a public commitment to the Government to increase its Australian equity to 51 per cen t ). A company w ish ing to na tura l ize is required to reach an unders tand ing with the Government on prac- tical arrangements for achieving 51 per cent Aus tra l ian ownership. A na tura l iz ing company is given prior credit for achieving 51 per cent Aus t ra l ian ownership. Accordingly, either a na tu ra l iz ing company or a nat- uralized company may under take new projects (other than projects involving u ran ium, finance, insurance, the media, and civil aviation, where special restrictions apply) on its own, or in any combination with other companies (provided the "mix" meets the 50 per cent Australian equity and control guidelines), w i thout first seeking approval f rom the Government. The nat- uralization arrangements do not a f fect a company's position under the provisions of the Foreign Takeovers Act. Foreign-controlled companies incorporated in Aus- tralia, or operating in Aus tra l ia as locally registered foreign companies, may raise funds for their local requirements in the Australian capital market. Such foreign companies proposing to borrow locally are invited to consider alternative sources of financing, including the raising of local equity by means of new share issues or other placements.4 Gold There are no restrictions on residents owning, buy- ing, or selling gold and gold coin in Australia. Resi- dents may export and import gold, subject to normal exchange control and customs procedures. Changes during 1981 January 1. The following changes were made in the import tariff system: (a) within the framework of the South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Coopera- tion Agreement (SPARTECA ), duty concessions were granted to the "Forum Island countries" —namely, Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Niue, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Western Samoa; (b) extensive changes were made in the tar iff rates on imports of 4 More details of Australia's foreign investment policy are contained in a government document, Your Investment in Australia—A Guide For Investors, 1981. 60 certain textiles, clothing, and footwear f rom the devel- oping countries; and (c) Greece was removed f rom the list of developing countries. January 21. Minor changes were made in the import duties on tanned and finished leather and dressed fu r. February 4. A temporary du ty of 20 per cent was levied on imports of certain soft-sided containers. April 1. The fo l low ing changes were made in import t a r i f f s: (a) import du ty exemptions were granted to imports of cheese f rom New Zea land and the Forum Island countries; (b) du t ies of 25 per cent were placed on fluorescent lamps and of 10 per cent on filament lamps; (c) the primage du ty of 10 per cent on manu- factured cut tobacco was incorporated into the sub- stantive rate, with provision for a rebate upon purchase of specified quan t i t ies of Au s t ra l ian lea f; and (d) a du ty of 20 per cent was levied on impor ts of jaw and vertical crushing and g r ind ing machines hav ing a work ing weight of under 50 tons, and of 15 per cent on other crush ing or g r ind ing mach ines. April 8. In connection w i th a decision on the iron and steel industry, new import du ty rates were intro- duced as follows: (a) hot-rolled and semifinished iron and steel products, 5 per cent; (b) cold-finished and coated products, 10 per cent; (c) pipes and tubes, 15 per cent; (d) o ther coated produc ts, 25 per cent (phasing down to 10 per c en t ); (e) large bore steel pipes, tubes, and pipe and tube fittings, 25 per cent (phas ing down to 15 per c en t ); (f) high-alloy steel products, 25 per cent (phas ing down to 15 per cen t ); (g) metal cans and canisters, 15 per cent; and (h) certain types of jerricans, 30 per cent (phas ing down to 25 per c en t ). May 15. Changes were made in the import du t ies on certain monomers, prepolymers, and goods of the sili- cone type; the changes involved m in imal rates for impor ts of these goods f rom New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, and other developing countries. May 27. The import duties on wheelchairs and parts thereof were placed at 30 per cent, phasing down to 20 per cent. July 1. All rema in ing p re fe ren t ial t a r i f fs on imports from the United Kingdom and Ireland were elimi- nated. In addition, import quotas were abolished on a number of textiles, clothing, and foo twear products f rom developing countries. July 20. The monetary limits on por tfo l io investment overseas in the fo rm of equities and real estate by Aus tra l ian residents were abolished. August 19. Changes were made in the import du ty rates on certain transport equ ipmen t, no tab ly bicycles. September 4. Aus t ra l ia entered in to a double taxa- tion agreement with Sweden. September 16. An import duty of 20 per cent was levied on certain railway and t ramway locomotives and their parts, and the du ty on certain re f rac to ry products was raised to 15 per cent. September 22. The signing was announced of a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Protocol to the 1973 Au s t ra l ia /Ch ina Trade Agree- ment relating to commercial and indus t r ial cooperation between the two countries. September 29. Australia accepted the GATT Sub- sidies and Coun terva i l ing Duties Code. October 27. Australia entered into a double taxa- tion agreement with Denmark. October 30. Certain types of precious metals were made subject to an import du ty of 25 per cent, and a 25 per cent du ty was levied on loudspeakers. December 2. Pr imary cells and p r ima ry ba t ter ies were made subject to an import du ty of 30 per cent for three years, to be reduced to the long-term rate of 25 per cent thereafter. AUSTRALIA 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Austria is the Aus tr ian Schilling. Without assuming any fo rmal obligations in this respect, the authorities aim at ma in ta in ing a stable relation with the currencies participating in the European Monetary System (EMS). Forward premiums and discounts are, in principle, left to the interplay of market forces. On December 31, 1981 the authorized banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S 15.835 and S 15.935, respectively, per US$1. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Austria forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Austrian National Bank administers exchange control and issues exchange licenses where required. Most exchange transactions are effected through Aus- trian banks authorized to implement the exchange con- trol regulations. The customs authorities issue freely and without delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licenses, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained f rom the relevant ministry, viz., the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry (Licensing Office) for industrial products or the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for agricultural products. For products falling under monopoly, licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Schilling Accounts. The exchange control regulations generally are based on the distinction between "multilateral mem- ber countries" (IMF or OECD members with which settlements take place in convertible currencies) and "multilateral nonmember countries" (other countries with which settlements are made in convertible cur- rencies). Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts, Interim Accounts for nonresidents residing in member countries of the IMF or the OECD, and Blocked Accounts for nonresi- dents residing in other countries. Free Schilling Accounts may be f r e e ly credited with proceeds f rom the sale of gold coin or convertible cur- rencies by a nonresident to the Aus tr ian National Bank, or to an authorized bank, as well as with payments per- mitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or ind iv idual authorization. The accounts may be free ly debited for payments to Austrian residents, who must, 62 however, apply for ind iv idual licenses if they are to receive loans f rom nonresidents. Balances may be freely converted into any fore ign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Interim Accounts and Blocked Accounts consist of f u n ds that are due to nonresidents. General licenses per- mit the ir use for payments for many current and some capital transactions. The t ran s fer abroad of f u n ds in In ter im Accounts and Blocked Accounts is subject to an ind iv idual license. In most cases licenses are granted f ree ly if the f u n ds belong to residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Nonresidents may also ma in ta in nonres ident accounts in convertible fore ign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accoun ts and are subject to the same conditions. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annexes to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country w i thout quan t i ta t ive restriction. All goods included in the Annexes require licenses but most are f ree of quan t i ta t ive restriction. For many goods licenses are gran ted by the customs, at the time of clearance, irrespective of the coun try they are imported from .1 Nearly all impor ts f rom GATT coun- tries, their associated territories, and some other coun- t r ies2 are liberalized. Austria's GATT liberalization is applied worldwide, except in respect of certain textiles and clothing as defined in Article XII, Section 1, of the Arrangement Regard ing In terna t ional Trade in Textiles. The importation of coffee and sugar is governed by the in terna t ional agreements for these commodities. Non- liberalized imports may be obtained under var ious pro- cedures, namely, state trad ing, global quotas, b i la teral quotas, discretionary licensing, and compensation (ba r- t e r ). State trad ing covers tobacco in any form, ethyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas apply to specified 1 Goods liberalized for import f r om a given g roup of coun tr ies may be f ree ly imported f rom any coun t ry in the group, provided that the coun try of exportation and the coun t ry of p roduc t ion of the goods involved are in the same group. a The fu ll list is as follows: Algeria, Ando r r a, Angola, Argen t ina, Aus t ra l ia, Bahamas, Bah ra in, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Bu rma, Bu rund i, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Denma rk ( inc lud ing Faroe Islands and G r e en l and ), Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuado r, Egyp t, Equa to r ial Gu inea, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Federal Republic of Ge rmany, Ghana, Greece, G renada, Guinea-Bissau, Guy an a, Haiti, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, I ta ly, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Democratic Kampuchea, Kenya, K ir iba t i, Korea, Kuwa i t, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Maur i tan ia, Mauritius, Mozambique, Ne the r lands, New Zealand, N icaragua, Niger, Nigeria, No rway, Oman, Pak i s tan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Rwanda, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, Sao Tome" and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Afr ica, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Tuvalu, Uganda, U.S.S.R., United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Vanuatu, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imports from GATT countries; such quotas apply only to potato, wheat, and corn starch, preserved meat, wine, and certain medicaments. Discretionary individual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above, including imports of certain textiles from specified countries. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries. Import licenses may not be granted for goods imported under compensation transactions, unless there is no other way of settling paymen t; at present, trade under such arrangements is negligible. Grains, milk and bu t ter, and cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, and horses for slaughter and products f rom these animals for human consumption are imported in accordance w i th a special system of con- trols and regulations maintained under the Agricultural Marketing Law and the law governing livestock fa rm ing and trading, and the marke t ing of livestock produce (Viehwirtschaftsgesetz). Certain agr icu l tural products are subject to import levies. In some cases, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received export certificates. Import licenses are not t rans fe rab le and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended for periods of three months at a time. Payments for imports f rom, and originating in, countries with which Austria makes set- tlements in convertible currencies do not require exchange licenses. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions, residents are permitted to con- clude transactions involving current invisibles with resi- dents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Exceptions comprise certain transactions con- cerning transport and insurance. Most transactions in current invisibles that involve payments to residents of other countries (e.g., freight, commissions, and the cost of assembly and repairs) are covered by general licenses; for the remaining transactions, individual licenses are required. Payments on account of generally authorized invisibles to nonresidents may be made freely, provided that no capital transfer is involved. Other payments abroad up to S 2,000 may be made freely and at any time. The remaining payments on account of invisibles to "multi- lateral nonmember countries" require special licenses. Residents traveling to countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may buy exchange f rom authorized banks or may obtain, as short- term advances f rom nonresidents in multilateral coun- tries, up to the equivalent of S 26,000 for each trip. Should a resident require more foreign exchange for traveling, additional amounts may be authorized by the National Bank. In addition, Austrian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for accommodation and food, as well as transportation. Persons leaving AUSTRIA Aus tr ia may take with them S 15,000 in Aus tr ian notes and coin and any amount in foreign notes and coin. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained from the relevant minis- try or, at the time of clearance, f rom the customs authorities. Goods exported under compensation a r rangemen ts are subject to licensing by the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. For most other exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant bilateral t rade agreements and the fu l f i l lment of quotas established in accordance with such agreements, and for the needs of the Aus t r ian economy. Export claims exceeding the equivalent of S 50,000 must be declared. Export proceeds may either be sur- rendered or be deposited in accounts with authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for authorized payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be declared w i th in eight days f rom the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be deposited with an authorized bank and subsequently are used in the same way as pro- ceeds accruing f rom exports. Persons entering Austria may bring in Austrian or foreign banknotes and coin without limit. Capital The acquisition by nonresidents of Austrian securities, shares and participations in Aus t r ian companies, and Austrian real estate is covered by a general license. Direct investments by nonresidents are also permitted by general authorization, if made w i th convertible curren- cies or f rom free or originally owned blocked schilling balances; for investments f inanced in other ways, autho- rization is granted on the merits of each case. Loans and credits extended by nonresidents to resi- dents, including those in schillings f rom Free Schilling Accounts, at present require prior approval by the National Bank and many are restricted. Approvals are granted generally, but not exclusively, for (1) invest- ment credits for productive enterprises, (2) import and export finance, and ( 3) loans from nonresident relatives to residents. Import credit with a ma tur i ty customary in the trade concerned is licensed freely. The short-term fore ign assets and liabilities of au tho- rized banks in convertible currencies are not subject to l im i ta t ion. The National Bank licenses f inanc ial loans w i th maturities of more than one year to nonresidents only to the extent of funds made available through the redemption of such loans outstanding at the end of December of the previous year, plus 15 per cent. A number of authorized banks are permitted to accept convertible currencies f rom abroad for interbank on-lending abroad at maturities of up to five years. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Mortgage loans, export finance credits, and loans to Austrian subsidiaries abroad are not subject to this limit. The National Bank permits the transfer abroad of ( 1) proceeds from the liquidation of various foreign investments in Austria (shares or participations in Aus- trian enterprises, Austrian securities, and real estate in Austria) and (2) repayments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants and pay- ments due to nonresidents on account of dowries, inheri- tances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs are permitted. Residents may freely grant loans to nonresident relatives. Residents are allowed, for purposes of direct invest- ment, to acquire participation rights in foreign com- panies, associations, and other enterprises, and to estab- lish, acquire, or extend foreign agencies or individually owned firms; earnings accruing from such investment usually may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad for the purpose of estab- lishing a secondary residence, i.e., intended for the per- sonal use of the buyer within one year, to grant com- mercial or investment credits (provided that, in the latter case, the proceeds of the credit are used within Aus t r ia ), to grant direct investment loans (provided that the resident can actually exert influence on the manage- ment of the nonresident enterprise), and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad. Domestic insurance companies may conclude life insurance con- tracts in Austria with nonresidents. Transactions and operations mentioned in the three preceding paragraphs are licensed upon documentation, provided that they are concluded with residents of coun- tries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Residents are allowed to purchase from nonresidents, without restriction, foreign securities issued in "multi- lateral member countries" and registered on stock exchanges3 and Austrian securities; for foreign securities and Austrian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, with certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of securi- ties listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange), the securities purchased must be kept with such banks. Payments for these purchases to nonresidents may be made in con- vertible currencies. Residents may sell foreign securities and Austrian external bonds to nonresidents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and, for securities deposited with Austrian authorized banks, only through such banks. 3 The general license does not apply to the purchase by residents from nonresidents of securities of a participating na tu re in wha tever legal fo rm (including shares) that are issued by fore ign investment funds or by similar institutions of whatever k ind which assemble assets for the purpose of risk spreading. Ind iv idual licenses are issued automatically when the purchase takes place on a recognized foreign stock exchange or when the issuing institution is subject to adequate surveillance. 64 Gold Transactions in gold (excluding jewelry and medal- lions, which are considered jewe lry) are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. The Na t ional Bank is autho- rized by this law to deal in gold as defined therein; the Bank has granted a number of general permissions widely liberalizing the domestic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coin, except in transactions with mone tary authorities of other countries or with in terna t ional financial ins t i tu t ions. The Bank has autho- rized credit institutions, exchange offices, and coin deal- ers to buy or sell in Austria on their own behalf or on behalf of their customers ( inc lud ing nonresidents) gold coin that is not legal tender; the prices are based on those for coin and unm anu f a c tu r ed gold in free markets abroad. A general license also permits o ther residents to purchase and sell among themselves, in Aus tr ia and against payment in schillings, gold coin that is not legal tender. The Mint releases certain types of gold coin (restrikes) to authorized credit ins t i tu t ions for resale to the public. It has also issued a commemorative gold coin with a face va lue of S 1,000, which is legal tender. Residents may hold gold in any fo rm, including bars, in Austria, and they may acquire in Austria any gold coin that is not legal tender and any gold medals or medallions; fu r the r- more, domestic t rad ing between residents in gold with a fineness of less than 0.585 is unrestricted. With the exception of coin, medals, and gold w i th a fineness of less than 0.585, the acquisition from residents of gold subject to the Foreign Exchange Law is reserved for the monetary authorities, authorized industrial users, den- tists, and jewelers; the Mint, gold refiners, and jewelers are permitted to trade or exchange gold in any form among themselves. Domestic sales of gold coins that are not legal tender are subject to value-added tax at the general rate of 18 per cent. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the license is issued either by the Ministry of Trade, Com- merce, and Indus t ry to indus t r ial users or by the cus- toms office concerned, which issues licenses automatically for certain gold imports w i th in its jurisdiction. Where this law does not require an import license (e.g., for the import of gold b a r s ), the Foreign Exchange Law pre- scribes a license issued by the Na t ional Bank covering the purchase of gold. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require authorization by the Na t ional Bank; the Bank has issued a general license permitting non- resident travelers to take out coin that is not legal tender up to a weight of 200 grams a person a trip, and allow- ing resident travelers to "multilateral member countries" to export such coin up to a value of S 1,000 a person a trip. The National Bank's imports and exports do not require import, exchange, or export licenses. Commer- cial imports of jewelry and of articles containing a minor amount of gold, such as watches, are liberalized, licenses ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution being issued au toma t ica l ly by the customs authorities; commercial exports of a number of such articles, how- ever, must be licensed by the Ministry of Trade, Com- merce, and Industry. Changes during 1981 January 1. The limit on ou tward payments for invisi- bles not subject to licensing was raised from S 1,000 to S 2,000; au thor iza t ion was gran ted for (a) investment credits to nonresidents, provided that the proceeds were used within Austria, and (b) additional participation of nonresidents in domestic enterprises raising their capi- tal to the legal m in imum (National Bank Foreign Announcement No. DE 2 /80 ). January 1. With its accession to membership in the EC, Greece was deleted from the list of beneficiaries (Group II) of the Austrian GSP scheme. January 1. Austria adhered to the GATT Agreement on Government Procurement. AUSTRIA February 15. Imports of videotape recorders from Japan were subjected to an annual quota of 8,500 un i ts by the Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Indus t ry. April 24. The restrictions introduced in 1971 on the use of Free Schilling Accounts were lifted. (The restric- tions had stipulated that Free Schilling Accounts were to be credited with the proceeds of sales of convertible currencies only if the conversion served to make a subsequent current payment to a resident .) July 9. With effect f rom August 1, 1981 the acquisi- tion of the following assets by nonresidents f rom resi- dents ceased to be subject to case-by-case approval from the Na t ional Bank: (1) domestic securities, (2) shares or participation rights in domestic companies, and ( 3) domestic real estate, including rights to such real estate (Foreign Exchange Announcement No. 2 / 8 1 ). The same regulation also introduced changes aimed at preventing abuses with regard to ( 1) external lending and borrowing transactions among relatives, and (2) the acquisition of foreign real estate by residents. 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of the Bahamas is the Bahamian Dol- lar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at B$l = US$1. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are B$ 1.0025 and B$ 1.0040, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted, the buying rate being based on the New York market mid-rate, and the selling rate 0.5 per cent above the buying rate. The Central Bank of the Bahamas deals only with commercial banks. For transactions with the public, commercial banks are authorized to charge a commission of 0.50 per cent buying and 0.75 per cent selling, per US$1, and 0.50 per cent buying or selling per £ stg. 1. These charges are additional to the Cen- tral Bank's charges. A stamp tax of 7 cents is applied to all outward remittances where the amount is B$30 or less. A fu r ther tax of 7 cents is levied on every additional B$30 or fraction thereof. There is also a market in which "investment cur- rency"1 may be negotiated between residents through an investment currency dealer at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market rate. On December 31, 1981 the bid and offer rates reflecting this premium were 21 and 26 per cent, respectively. The Bahamas forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 5, 1973. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments; the approval authority for import payments, travel exchange, and cash gifts is not dele- gated, except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands. Import and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, arms and ammunition, and, in certain cases, industrial gold. The Department of Agriculture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and conch, and the Police Department issues import and export licenses for arms and ammunition. Imports of industrial gold are licensed by the Central Bank. l fTh is is foreign currency in respect of which there is a general or specific central bank permission that it may be retained and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permission may exist in respect of foreign currency accruing to residents of the Bahamas from the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities or the sale, liquidation, redemption, or realization of property or of direct invest- ments outside the Bahamas. The use of investment currency is pre- scribed for the purchase from nonresidents of foreign currency se- curities and the making of direct investments outside the Bahamas. 66 The exchange control system of the Bahamas makes no distinction between foreign territories. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency2 or in Baham ian dollars through an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may freely open External Accounts denom ina ted in Bahamian dollars for winter residents and for persons w i th residency permits but w i thout work permits. With the prior approval of the Cen tral Bank, authorized banks may also open Ex ternal Accounts in Baham ian dollars for nonresident companies that have direct investments in the Bahamas and for nonresident investors. External Accounts in Baham ian dollars are normally funded en t ire ly f rom fo re ign currency or ig ina t- ing outside the Bahamas, but income on registered investments may also be credited to these accounts with the Central Bank's approval. Balances may be converted f ree ly in to foreign currency and t ran s fe r red abroad.3 Accounts which are credited w i th f u n ds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are designated Blocked Accounts. These are held ma in ly by emigrants. Where the value of an emigrant's assets exceeds B$25,000, the excess is credited to a Blocked Account. Balances on Blocked Accounts are trans- ferab le through the official exchange ma rket a f ter four years or through the inves tment currency market at any time; they may also be invested, w i th the Central Bank's approval, in certain resident-held assets or be spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain commodities is prohibited or controlled because of health, social, or hum an i t a r i an reasons. All other goods may be imported without a license. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for mak ing payments for imports, irrespective of or ig in ;4 this approval is no rma l ly given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. Import duties vary from zero to 110 per cent, depending on the type of goods. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax at a rate of 1 per cent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on current payments. Autho- rized dealers have been given au thor i ty to make pay- comprise all currencies other 2 Foreign currencies Baham ian dollar. 3 Persons of foreign nationality who have been granted "temporary resident" status are treated in some respects as nonresidents but are not permitted to hold External Accounts. * Except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands, where this authority is delegated to clearing bank branches. than the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ments to nonresidents on behalf of residents for cer ta in services and other invisibles w i th in specified limits. Such payments include f re igh t, ships' disbursements, commis- sions, royalties, and insurance payments. Residents are entitled, on app l ica t ion to the Central Bank, to a foreign currency travel allowance of the equ iva lent of B$ 1,000 a person a year for tourist travel and of B$5,000 a per- son a year for genu ine business or professional travel. The allowance of B$ 1,000 for tou r ist travel excludes the cost of fa res and travel services, which are no rma l ly obtained against payment in Baham ian dollars to a travel agent in the Bahamas. App l ica t ions for fore ign exchange in excess of these amoun ts must be referred to the Cen tral Bank, wh ich approves all bona fide applications. Foreign exchange fac i l i t ies obtained for travel may not be retained abroad or be used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused balance must be surrendered w i th in one mon th of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, w i th in one mon th of his re tu rn to the Bahamas. Subject to adequate documen tary evidence, an education allowance of up to B$6,000 a person an academic year is no rma l ly granted upon application. Applications for facilities in excess of this amount are referred to the Central Bank. Temporary residents may remit up to 50 per cent of their wages and salaries, but where comm i tmen ts outside the Baha- mas are larger than 50 per cent of wages and salaries, additional amoun ts may be rem i t ted. A traveler may take out of the Bahamas Bahamian notes not exceeding B$70 in value and notes of any other terr i tory not exceeding US$1,000 in value. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required except for crawfish, conch, and arms and ammun i t ion. The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached the ir destination or within six mon ths of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the Central Bank. Proceeds front Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect without delay all amounts due to them f rom nonresidents and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an authorized dealer w i thout delay, but these requirements are seldom enforced. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes. The import of domestic banknotes is subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Capital All capital t rans fe rs to countries outside the Bahamas require exchange control approval and outflows of resi- dent-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers do not require exchange control approval, although the subsequent utilization <?f the funds In the Bahamas may require authorization. The permission of the Central BAHAMAS Bank is required in respect of any action whereby non- residents acquire control of an incorpora ted company controlled by residents. Resident ind iv idua ls and com- panies requ ire the specific permission of the Central Bank to ma in ta in bank accounts outside the Bahamas.5 The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$ 100,000 or 30 per cent of the to tal cost of the investment, whichever is greater, for inves tmen ts f rom which the add i t ional benef i ts expected to accrue to the balance of paymen ts f rom export receipts, profits, or other earn ings w i th in 18 mon ths of the inves tment will at least equal the total amount of inves tment and will continue the rea f te r. Inves tmen ts abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency borrowed on su i tab le terms subject to ind iv idual approval by the Central Bank, the purchase of foreign currency in the investment currency marke t, or the use of re ta ined prof i ts of fore ign sub- s id iary companies. Permission is not given for invest- ments that are likely to have adverse effects on the ba lance of payments. In principle, inward inves tment by nonres iden ts is un res t r ic ted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or t rans fer of shares in a Baham ian company to a nonresident and for the t r a n s f er of control of a Baham ian company to a nonresident. Where an inves tment takes the fo rm of a purchase of real property, the nonresident must obtain permission. Such permis- sion is norma l ly granted, provided that a f a ir price is paid, and payment may be made either in Bahamian dollars from an External Account or in foreign cur- rency. In October 1979, the Government announced that sales would not be permitted except in cases where land is to be used for residential purposes by approved persons and for approved indus tr ial or development purposes. A Foreign Investments Board is scheduled to be ins t i tu ted to exercise general supervision and con- trol over nonresident ownership of land. For all investments with approved status, permission is given upon application for the transfer of profits and dividends, representing earned t rad ing profits and invest- ment income. In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank to buy property outside the Bahamas; such pur- chases, if for personal use, can be made only with investment currency, and approval is limited to one property for each family. Any incidental expenses con- nected with the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met with investment currency; expendi- tures necessary for the ma in tenance of the property or arising directly f rom its ownership may, with permis- 5 Banks and trusts established in the Bahamas are exempt from certain exchange control regulations, particularly with regard to their offshore operations. 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS sion, be met with foreign currency bought at the cur- rent market rate in the official foreign exchange market. The transfer of legacies and inheritances due to non- resident beneficiaries under wills or intestacies of persons who were Bahamian residents at the time of their death is permitted. However, permission is not normally given for Baham ian residents to settle any property, other than by will, for the benefit of nonresidents. A resident may make cash g if ts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$ 1,000 a donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, with permission, in special circumstances. Foreign nationals domiciled in the Bahamas, even if considered resident for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a measure of exemption from certain exchange control obligations, notably with respect to the mandatory deposit of foreign currency securities and the surrender of certain other foreign capital assets. Nonresident buyers of Baham ian securities must pay for such purchases in Bahamian dollars from an External Account, in funds eligible for credit to an External Account, or in Bahamian dollars arising from the sale of foreign currency in the official foreign exchange market; interest, dividends, and capital pay- ments on such securities may not be remitted outside the Bahamas unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Bahamian residents are not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities with official exchange or out of export proceeds or other current earnings; payment must be made with invest- ment currency. All purchases, sales, and switches of foreign currency securities in the Bahamas and all switches in foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents, wherever the switch takes place, require permission from the Central Bank, and all transactions must take place through authorized agents.6 All foreign securities purchased by residents of the Bahamas must be held to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other former Sterling Area countries are considered foreign currency securities, and sales proceeds of such securities held by residents, if registered at the Central Bank by December 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the investment currency market; securities not so registered may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Residents leaving the country w i th the intention of residing permanently outside the Bahamas are redes- ignated upon departure as nonresidents. Under normal rules persons leaving the Bahamas to take up residence elsewhere may transfer, at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market, up to B$25,000 of their Bahamian dollar assets to the new country of resi- dence, and may also take normal household and personal effects with them. Where the total value of their Baha- mian dollar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is trans- 8 These are 11 banks and trust companies and others authorized to deal in Bahamian and foreign currency securities and to receive securities in deposit. 68 ferable through the official exchange market a f ter four years, or through the inves tment currency market at any time. A f ter a person's redesignation as a nonresident, income accruing f rom his assets rema in ing in the Baha- mas is normally remittable at the cu r rent market rate in the official foreign exchange marke t. Residents other than authorized banks require per- mission to borrow foreign currency f rom nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control directions with regard to their lending of foreign cur- rency to residents. Residents also require permission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans by conversion of Baham ian dollars. Where permission is granted for residents to accept for- eign currency loans, such permission is norma l ly condi- tional upon the currency being offered for sale w i thout delay to an authorized dealer, unless the funds are re- qu ired to meet paymen ts to nonres iden ts for which per- mission has been specifically given. A resident company that is wholly owned by non- res iden ts is not normally allowed to raise work ing capital in Baham ian dollars unless such f u n ds are a small proportion of the total investment. If the company is pa r t ly owned by residents, the am o u nt of such local currency borrowing is norma l ly de te rm ined in relation to the nonresident interest in the equity of the com- pany. Banks and other lenders resident in the Baha- mas require permission before they extend loans in domestic currency to any corporate body (other than a b a n k) that is resident in the Bahamas and is by any means controlled, whether directly or ind irec t ly, by non- residents. However, companies that are set up by non- residents primarily to import and d is tr ibu te products m anu f a c tu r ed outside the Bahamas are not normally allowed to borrow Baham ian dollars from residents either for fixed or work ing capital but must provide all their finance in foreign currency; borrowings in a for- eign currency normally are permitted on application. Gold Residents of the Bahamas other than authorized dealers are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. Those residents, however, who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the approval of the Central Bank, meet their current indu s t r ial requirements. Import licenses are freely issued by the Central Bank to industrial users. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coin. Commercial impor ts of gold jewelry do not requ i re a license. There is no import du ty on gold bu l l ion or gold coin; how- ever, an import duty of 30 per cent is imposed on imports of gold jewelry f rom all sources. A 7.5 per cent stamp tax payable to the customs is also levied on gold jewelry f rom any source. There is no restriction on the acquisition or retention by residents of gold coin. The Bahamas has issued commemorative gold coins in denominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution B$200, and B$2,500; these are legal tender but do not circulate. On the occasion of the fifth ann iversary of Independence, the Bahamas issued commemorative coins of B$10 in silver and B$100 in gold, and to com- memorate the two hundred and fiftieth ann iversary of Parliament, commemorative coins of B$25 in silver and B$250 in gold. Changes during 1981 juiy 3, A new law was promulgated by Parliament to regulate the acquisition of immovab le property by foreigners. The law provided for the establishment of a Foreign Investments Board to exercise general super- vision and control over nonresident ownership of land. BAHAMAS 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bahrain is the Bahrain Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at BD 0.476190 = SDR 1. Bah- rain sets exchange rates for the Bahrain dinar within margins of plus or minus 7.25 per cent, in terms of the fixed relationship between the Bahrain dinar and the SDR. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The middle rate of the Bahrain dinar for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency is adjusted from time to time. The Agency also quotes daily rates for pounds sterling and deutsche mark based on the latest available rates for the U.S. dollar against those currencies. On December 31, 1981 the Agency's buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.37500 and BD 0.37700, respectively, per US$1. The Agency does not deal with the public. In their dealings with the public, commercial banks are required to use the Agency's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark, but they are authorized to charge an exchange commission of 2 per mill (special rates of commission apply for transactions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and the New York market rate for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Bahrain formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from March 20, 1973. Administration of Control The Agency is the exchange control authority, but there is no exchange control legislation in Bahrain. No import or export licenses are required (except for arms and ammunition, television cameras, and alcoholic bev- erages). However, importers and exporters must be registered with the commercial registry maintained by the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture and must be members of the Bahrain Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency Alb settlements with Israel are prohibited. Other- wise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Offshore bank ing units are not normally permitted to hold resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel are prohibited, as are products manufac tured by foreign companies that have been blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few com- 70 modities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or security. Imports of cultured pearls also are prohibited. Import licenses are required for arms and ammunition, television cameras, and alcoholic beverages. Rice and sugar are, in practice, imported only by the Bahrain Import-Export Company. Exchange for payments in respect of permitted imports may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited, and exports of certain refined petroleum products to South Africa have been suspended. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahrain any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel. Profits from foreign investments in Bah- rain may be transferred abroad freely w i th the excep- tion that under Article 72 of the Monetary Agency Law the banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remittance of their profits. Licensed offshore banking un i ts may freely engage in transactions with nonresidents; transactions with residents are not normally permitted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10 per cent customs duty but gold ingots are exempt. Brokerage business in gold (as well as other commodities) requires approval from the Bahrain Monetary Agency before registering w i th the Ministry of Commerce; such business is subject to a minimum deposit requirement equivalent in the case of gold to BD 3,000 or 10 per cent of the contract value, which- ever is higher. Changes during 1981 February 28. The swap facility offered to commercial banks was divided into two tiers, the first at a subsidized ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN rate for one week, and the second at a market-related rate for overnight or one week at the option of the bank. February 28. Bahrain and Saudi Arabia agreed not to impose du ty on imports from each other of locally manufactured goods. March 25. Investment banks may accept deposits from nonbanks outside Bahrain at call or fixed deposits with a minimum value of US$50,000 (or equivalent in other currencies) for individual deposits. April 1. New regulations were introduced, under which gold and commodity brokers require approval from the Bahrain Monetary Agency before registering with the Ministry of Commerce. (For existing firms, this regulation did not come into effect until July 1, 1981.) Brokers and dealers in commodity futures and precious metals were required to obtain special licenses and to make margin deposits of BD 4,000 or 10 per cent of the contract value, whichever was higher, with a mini- mum margin of BD 5,000 for silver. June 30. Certain amendments were made to the regulations introduced on April 1, 1981 concerning special licenses and margin deposit requirements for trading in commodity fu tures and precious metals; in the case of gold, the minimum margin requirement was reduced from BD 4,000 to BD 3,000 or 10 per cent of contract value, whichever was higher. July 1. With a view to discouraging consumption, the import duty on cigarettes, cigars, and all other tobacco products was increased from 15 per cent to 30 per cent. 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh Taka. The value of the taka in terms of the pound sterling, the intervention currency, is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies. Changes in the exchange rate for the pound sterling are generally made when fluctuations in the exchange rates between the pound sterling and the currencies in the basket exceed 1 per cent in either direction. On December 31, 1981 the middle rate of the official buy ing and selling rates (spot) was Tk 38.0068 = <£ stg. 1. On December 31, 1981 the spot buying and selling rates of the Bangladesh Bank (the central bank) for authorized dealers were Tk 37.9568 and Tk 38.0568, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. On the same date the spot buy ing and selling rates (telegraphic transfers) of authorized dealers were Tk 37.9255 and Tk 38.0881, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. Exchange rates for currencies other than sterling are based on the London market rates for the currencies concerned. A d ifferent effective exchange rate arises through the operation of the Wage Earners' Scheme, under which foreign exchange earnings remitted by workers abroad may be used for specified imports or for expenditure on foreign travel. On December 31, 1981 this rate was Tk 22.65 per US$1 and Tk 42.80 = <£ stg. 1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward transactions of the Bangladesh Bank are confined to purchases of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars and sales of pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. Forward facilities at autho- rized banks are available in all approved foreign cur- rencies for export proceeds and for import payments, as well as for remittances of surplus collection of for- eign shipping companies and foreign airlines. Forward transactions cover up to a maximum period of six months. For settlement of transactions under the Asian Clearing Union, Bangladesh Bank purchases, both spot and forward, the currencies of the member countries of the Union,1 as well as the Asian Monetary Unit (AMU ) ;2 it also sells these currencies for spot delivery. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bangladesh Bank in accordance with general policy formulated in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. The seven foreign and six domestic commercial banks and four specialized financial institutions have been appointed authorized dealers (authorized banks) in foreign exchange. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Commerce (Foreign Trade Division) 1 Members of the Asian Clearing Union are Bangladesh, Burma, India, Iran, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 2 The AMU is equivalent in value to the SDR and is used for recording the value of transactions passing through the Union. 72 is responsible for the issuance of import licenses. Cer- tain trade transactions are conducted through state trad- ing agencies, including the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB). Prescription of Currency Settlements with all coun tr ies are subject to exchange control. Settlements w i th coun tr ies w i th which Bangla- desh has bilateral payments (or commodity exchange) agreemen ts3 norma l ly must be effec ted through clearing accounts specified in the agreements. Payments to, and receipts from, the other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union in respect of current transactions (o ther than those relating to pe tro leum and na tu ral gas and their p roduc ts) must be effec ted in Asian monetary units through the Clearing Union.4 As regards other countries, settlements normally take place in sterling and other convertible currencies or through Non res ident Taka Accounts. Paymen ts for imports may be made to the coun t ry of origin of the goods or to any other country (w i th the exception of those countries f rom which importation is p roh ib i ted ); they may be made ( 1) in taka for credit to a nonres ident bank account in Ban- gladesh of the currency concerned; (2) in the currency of the coun try concerned; or (3) in any freely con- vertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in f ree ly convertible foreign exchange or in taka f rom a Nonresident Taka Account of a bank abroad. All settle- ments w i th Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resi- dent in countries outside Bangladesh are designated Nonresident Accounts. All such accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accoun ts related to the coun try in which the account holder is permanently residing.5 Nonresident Accounts may be opened only w i th the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank. Speci- fied debits and credits to Nonresident Accounts may be made by authorized dealers w i thout the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank du r ing the absence of the account holder from Bangladesh. Certain other debits and credits may be made w i thout the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank but are subject to reporting ex post. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission s taffs, in terna t ional nonprof it hum an i t a r i an organiza- tions func t ion ing in Bangladesh and the ir expa t r ia te employees, fore ign oil companies engaged in oil explora- 3 Bu lgar ia, People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Roman ia, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 4 The Bangladesh Bank announces exchange rates between the Asian Clearing Union and the member countries' currencies twice a month. 5 The accounts of the United Na t ions and its agencies are treated as resident accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tory work, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh regardless of the ir status are allowed to ma in ta in Convertible Taka Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with receipts of inward remit- tances in convertible foreign exchange and may be debited freely and at any time for remittances abroad in convertible currencies and for transfers to Noncon- vertible Taka Accounts. Transfers between Convertible Taka Accounts are free ly permitted. Foreign missions and embassies may open interest-bearing accounts, but the interest earned thereon can be disbursed only locally. Under the Wage Earners' Scheme, Bangladesh nationals and persons of Bangladesh origin who are work ing abroad are permitted to open Foreign Currency Accounts denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dol- lars. These accounts may be credited with (1) remit- tances in convertible currencies received from abroad th rough normal bank ing channels and postal channels; (2) proceeds of convertible currencies (currency notes, travelers checks, draf ts, etc .) brought into Bangladesh by the account holder while on a temporary visit to Bangladesh, provided they were declared to the customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; and (3) transfers from other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme. The accounts may be debited, without restriction, but subject to reporting to the Bangladesh Bank, for the following purposes: ( 1) all local disbursements; (2) transfers to other Foreign Cur- rency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme; (3) payment for imports of specified goods against let- ters of credit; (4) payment of bank commissions and other bank charges connected with the hand l ing of the accounts; and (5) travel expenditures abroad for busi- ness or private purposes up to the equivalent of £ stg. 100 a year for each country for travel by air to Burma, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka, up to the equivalent of <£ stg. 300 a trip for travel to other coun- tries ( for a max imum of three trips in one yea r ), and up to US$50 a year for overland travel to India. Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or with foreign aid, loans, and barter arrange- ments. Impor ts financed f rom Bangladesh's own resources are licensed within the f ramewo rk of an annual import policy ( import budge t ). Under the import policy for the fiscal year 1981/82 (July to J u n e ), items that may be imported were classified into four broad categories: (1) goods imported by "com- mercial importers"; (2) raw materials and packing materials imported by "industrial units" recognized as such under an entitlement system; ( 3) items imported exclusively by the TCB or jointly by the TCB, other approved agencies, and private sector importers; and (4) items imported under the Wage Earners' Scheme against payment from Foreign Currency Accounts. BANGLADESH All imports require licenses or approval on letter of credit authorization forms. Single country licenses or letter of credit authorization forms are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments agreements and for tied aid imports. Other import licenses and letter of credit authorization forms are valid worldwide, except that imports f rom Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Licenses and letter of credit authorization forms issued to importers generally remain valid for shipment for 6 months f rom the date of opening letters of credit, if the letter of credit is established within the period specified by the licensing authority. Licenses and letter of credit authorization forms issued for imports of mach inery and spare par ts requiring fabr i- cation, however, remain valid for 12 months f rom the date of opening of letters of credit. Licenses issued to industrial consumers are valid for 12 months. Licenses (other than those issued under the Export Performance License Scheme and the Wage Earners' Scheme) are not transferable, and when they expire, are not normally revalidated except where, owing to circumstances beyond the control of importers, the letter of credit requirement could not be met or shipping arrangements could not be made: Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable letters of credit. The opening of import letters of credit is subject to ma rg in require- ments rang ing, for impor ts at the off ic ial exchange rate, f rom 5 per cent of va lue for public sector imports to 50 per cent for nonessential private imports; for imports under the Wage Earners' Scheme and the Export Per- formance License Scheme, the margin requirement is 10 per cent for essential goods and 100 per cent for luxury consumer goods. Imports of books and periodi- cals, as well as drugs and medicines, up to specified limits are permissible on a consignment basis. Public sector importers may, however, import on a cash against documents basis. There are limited facilities outside the import program for minor imports by specified end- users, such as hospitals and educational or technical institutions. The licensing of imports of specified raw materials and pack ing materials by industrial consumers is gov- erned by an entitlement system, based on the require- ments for various industries dur ing each import program period as established by the Director-General of Indus- tries. Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitle- ment for importation of specified raw materials and packing materials, and licenses are issued on the basis of the entitlement. Separately, industrial consumers may be granted import licenses for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods imported against licenses issued to industrial consumers must be used in the indus try con- cerned and must not be sold or transferred without prior approval. Under an Export Performance License Scheme aimed at encouraging manufac tured exports, industries engaged 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH in export business (other than ju te, jute goods, or loose t e a ), or with export potential, may receive licenses in excess of their normal entitlement for the importation of their raw material requirements or other specified items, on the basis of their export performance. The entitlements are 60 per cent or 40 per cent of the net f.o.b. value of foreign exchange earnings. Under the scheme the Bangladesh Bank issues to eligible exporters free ly negotiable Import Entitlement Certificates, which may be converted into import licenses for import of goods eligible under the scheme. Foreign exchange for licensed imports is provided au toma t ica l ly by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval by the Bangladesh Bank, which normally is given only for specialized or capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with authorized trade transactions generally are not restricted. Pay- ments for most other invisibles require prior approval and are restricted. Foreign exchange is not provided for tourist travel. Applications for fore ign exchange for business travel, medical treatment, and education abroad are considered on an individual basis; as a rule, for business travel the amount granted is US$50 a day, subject to a maximum of US$3,000 a calendar year for exporters whose total export earnings in the preceding year were Tk 2.5 million or above and a max imum of US$1,500 for those whose export earnings were less than Tk 2.5 million; for medical treatment the amount granted is about <£ stg. 500. A Bangladesh national proceeding abroad by air is allowed to purchase fore ign exchange from a Foreign Currency Account under the Wage Earners' Scheme, subject to certain limits (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Foreign nationals work ing in Bangladesh must obtain approval before making remittances abroad for fam i ly mainte- nance purposes; such approval is usually granted up to 50 per cent of wages or salaries, subject to a maximum of <£ stg. 200 a month (net of t ax) for nationals of countries other than India and up to Tk 1,500 for Indian nationals, if the terms of employment have been Approved by the Government. Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign cur- rency and travelers checks they declared on entry less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money changers; they may also, without obtaining the approval of the Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 500 or 25 per cent of the amount converted, which- ever is smaller, into convertible foreign currencies at the time of their exit. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency and travelers checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they have been granted. Ban- gladesh na t iona ls may take out TK 100 in domestic cur- rency; otherwise, the export of Bangladesh currency notes and coin is prohibited. 74 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. The proceeds f rom exports must be received within four months of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered, but Bangladesh nationals working abroad may retain their earnings in Foreign Currency Accounts. All Bangladesh na t iona ls who are resident in Bangladesh must surrender any fo re ign exchange coming into their possession, whe ther held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer within one month of the date of acquisition. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continuously for more than six months are required to surrender any foreign exchange representing their earnings abroad in respect of business conducted in Bangladesh or services rendered, within one month of the date of acquisition. The import of Bangladesh currency notes and coin exceeding Tk 100 is prohibited. Foreign currency travelers checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in by nonresident travelers without limit, pro- vided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival; no declaration is required for import of foreign exchange not exceeding US$150 by nonresidents or US$25 by residents. Capital All outward t rans fe rs of capital require approval; such approval is not normally granted in respect of resident- owned capital. Inward capital transfers also require approval. Movable and immovable assets, including foreign exchange, owned in any country other than Bangladesh have to be declared to the Bangladesh Bank by resident Bangladeshis. There is no restriction on the importation of securities into Bangladesh, but the trans- fer of securities in favor of a person resident outside Bangladesh requires approval. This requirement applies to all Bangladesh securities, whether held by residents or not, and to all foreign securities held by residents. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and ove rd ra f ts from overseas branches and correspondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time. Bor- rowing abroad by resident nonbank firms of Bangladesh origin requires approval. Borrowing by nonresident- owned or nonresident-controlled enterprises from com- mercial banks in Bangladesh beyond specified ceilings, as well as any borrowing from abroad, requires approval, and loans by authorized dealers in local currency against overseas guarantees or collateral outside Bangladesh also require approval. Authorized dealers may, how- ever, approve loans, overdrafts, or credit facilities against goods intended for export from Bangladesh to companies controlled by persons resident outside Ban- gladesh. Authorized dealers must obtain approval before making any loans in foreign currencies to residents or nonresidents, whether secured or unsecured. They are not normally permitted to hold short-term foreign assets other than small working balances. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The permission of the Bangladesh Bank is required for nonresidents other than banks to establish or con- t inue a business in Bangladesh. Foreign firms with branches in Bangladesh are required to submit state- ments of their fore ign exchange receipts and local expenses at the end of each calendar quarter. Foreign private investment is governed by the For- eign Private Investment (Promotion and Protection) Act of 1980 and is permitted in collaboration with both the Government and pr iva te entrepreneurs. The Act provides, inter alia, for protection and equitable treat- ment of foreign private investment, indemnification, protection against expropriation and nationalization, and guarantee for repatriation of investment. In the private sector, however, fore ign participation is limited to those industries where technical know-how is not locally available, where the technology involved is very com- plicated, or where capital ou t lay is high, and to indus- tries that are either based on local raw materials or that are wholly export oriented. For a new investment, for- eign investors generally are required to provide as equity capital the entire amount of the project's fore ign exchange component. There is no ceiling on private investment, but investment above Tk 100 million needs special approval. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on location. All foreign investments require approval by the Investment Board. Dividends on foreign capital may be remitted free ly af ter payment of taxes. Gold The import and export of gold or silver in any form are prohibited without special permission, which is not normally gran ted. There are no restrictions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments (including coin) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in any other fo rm except by licensed industrialists or dentists. Changes during 1981 January 30. Exporters of raw j u te were allowed to quote their export prices in all convertible currencies. (Quotations were previously limited to pounds sterling and U.S. dollars.) January 31. Use of foreign exchange for settlement of imports on deferred payment terms was made subject to authorization by the Government. (Subsequently, Bangladesh Bank was entrusted with the responsibility for giving such authorization.) February 6. Existing regulations on import and export of Bangladesh currencies were relaxed as fol- lows: (a) the limit on the exportable or importable amount of Bangladesh currency was raised from Tk 20 to Tk 100 a person; ( b) re turn ing residents were exempted from the requirement of declaring to Customs foreign exchange in their possession not exceeding US$25 (US$150 for nonresidents). February 6. The sixth barter protocol between Ban- BANGLADESH gladesh and Czechoslovakia was signed. February 11. The eighth barter protocol between Bangladesh and Bulgaria was signed. February 20. The tenth barter protocol between Bangladesh and the U.S.S.R. was signed. February 26. The exchange rate of the Bangladesh taka was changed to Tk 37.1000 (buy ing) and Tk 37.2000 (selling) per <£ stg. 1; the rate was sub- sequently changed 17 more times, the last being on December 30 to Tk 37.9568 ( b u y i n g) and Tk 38.0568 (se l l ing) per <£ stg. 1. March 6. In a modification of the Export Perfor- mance License scheme, entitlements were increased to 60 per cent and 40 per cent of net f.o.b. value of for- eign exchange earnings, compared with earlier entitle- ment rates of 10 per cent, 30 per cent, and 40 per cent; the issuance procedure was also revised to render the scheme more attractive. March 9. Authorized dealers were empowered to release fore ign exchange of up to US$50 a person a year under the Wage Earners' Scheme for overland travel to India; previously, only those traveling by air were eligible for such an allocation. July 17. The fifth bar ter protocol between Bangla- desh and the People's Republic of China was signed. August 5. Margin requirements were introduced for opening letters of credit, rang ing f rom 5 per cent for public sector imports to 50 per cent for private sector imports at the official exchange rate, and from 25 per cent to 75 per cent, for imports under the Wage Earners' Scheme and Export Performance Licensing arrangements. August 28. The fifth bar ter protocol between Ban- gladesh and Poland was signed. August 29. Authorized dealers were advised to sell a portion of the Wage Earners' funds to Bangladesh Bank with provision for buying it back as and when needed. (Previously, these funds were kept by autho- rized dealers ou ts ide Bangladesh Bank's reserves.) September 8. Authorized dealers were permitted to pay interest on balances in the accounts of foreign missions, provided that the disbursement of interest earnings was done locally. (Previously, no interest could be paid on such accounts.) October 15. Margin requirements for opening letters of credit were reduced f rom 25 per cent to 15 per cent for private imports of raw materials, spares, and essen- tial consumer goods at the official exchange rate, and f rom 25 per cent to 10 per cent for similar imports under the Wage Earners' Scheme and Export Perfor- mance Licensing arrangements; for imports of luxury consumer goods under the latter arrangements, the margin requirement was increased from 75 per cent to 100 per cent. October 31. The sixth bar ter protocol between Ban- gladesh and Romania was signed. 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at BDS$2 = US$1. On December 31, 1981 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BDS$ 1.9975 and BDS$2.0250, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Canadian dol- lar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted. These rates include commission charges of 0.1875 per cent buying and 1.375 per cent selling. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Barbados for the Canadian dollar were BDS$1.6863 and BDS$1.7128, respec- tively, per Can$ l; those for the deutsche mark were BDS$0.8870 and BDS$0.9009, respectively, per DM 1; and those for sterling were BDS$3.8198 and BDS$3.8796, respectively, per £ stg. 1. Under clearing arrangements with regional monetary authorities, the Central Bank sells currencies of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM) countries * at fixed rates (including a commission of 0.125 per cent) but purchases only East Caribbean and Trinidad and Tobago dollar notes. The rate applied mutually for the purchase of currency notes is the par i ty rate between each pair of currencies determined on the basis of the U.S. dollar rate. The Central Bank regulates the com- mission that may be charged by the commercial banks in dealings with their customers in CARICOM currencies. With specified exceptions, fore ign exchange applica- tions for nonimport transactions exceeding BDS$500 are subject to a levy collected in the approval process by the Central Bank in amounts ranging from BDS$20 to BDS$100 per application. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries and is administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank delegates to authorized dealers the au tho r i ty to approve normal import payments and the allocation of foreign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. The exchange control system provides that foreign exchange should normally be surrendered to an authorized dealer. The normal exchange control directives do not apply to transactions between resi- dents and persons resident in South Afr ica. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Agricul- ture, Food, and Consumer Affa irs. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area other than South Africa may be made 1 The CARICOM countries are An t igua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis- Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 76 in any foreign currency,2 or through an External Account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with resi- dents of CARICOM countries must be made either through External Accounts (in Barbados dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, except that commercial banks may issue CARICOM travelers checks denominated in Trinidad and Tobago dollars to Barbadian residents traveling to other CARI- COM countries, within the approved limits for travel allowances. Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, authorized dealers may ma in ta in in foreign currencies Foreign Currency Accounts in the names of residents of Barbados and of other countries. Approval for open- ing these accounts is given on the basis of the antici- pated frequency of receipts and paymen ts in foreign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to Foreign Currency Accounts, under the conditions of approval established at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers w i thout reference to the Central Bank. These accounts are ma in ta ined in Barbados dollars. They may be credited w i th proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, w i th t rans fe rs f rom other External Accounts, with bank interest (payab le on External Accounts or Blocked Accoun ts ), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Central Bank. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdraf ts requ ire ind iv idual approval. The Exchange Control Act of 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to require cer ta in payments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for t ran s fer to be credited to Blocked Accounts. Balances in Blocked Accounts may not be w i thdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South A f r ica are prohibited, and certain imports originating in non-CARicoM countries require individual licenses. The use of import licensing requirements and quan t i ta t ive restrictions are the chief tools of Barbad ian external commercial policy, since ta r i ff policy is pre-empted by CARICOM. The list of products subject to licensing is extensive. However, not all goods that are subject to import licensing are 2 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Barbados dollar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution subject to qu an t i t a t ive restriction. Some items on the import licensing list may be free ly imported throughout the year, while some others are subject to temporary restriction (particularly agricultural products, which tend to be subject to seasonal res tr ic t ion). Certain imports are prohibited; these include various food- s tuffs and beer not produced w i th in the CARICOM area. There is also a "Negative List" for certain garments, the impo r ta t ion of which is totally prohibited if the product is below a m in imum c .i .f. va lue. Individual licenses are also required for imports of commodities that are sub ject to the provisions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the Governmen ts of Barbados, Dom in ica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. V incent and the Grenad ines, and Tr in idad and Tobago, whether the goods are being impo r ted f rom CARICOM countries or from elsewhere. Special l icens ing a r rangemen ts have been made for the regu la t ion of t rade between Barbados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agr icu l tural commodities. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documen ta ry evidence (invoices and customs wa r ran t s) to authorized dealers. Advance paymen ts for imports require prior approval by the Cen tral Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles requ ire exchange control approval. Except for transac t ions involving residents of South Africa, paymen ts for all commercial trans- actions are permitted f ree ly when the application is supported by appropriate documen ta ry evidence. Au thor i ty has been delegated to au thor ized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for cer- tain payments of a personal na tu re and for sundry payments. These include foreign travel ( for which up to BDS$ 1,500 a person a calendar year may be allo- cated for private travel w i th in or outside the CARICOM area, and BDS$200 a day, up to BDS$4,000 a person a calendar year, for business travel w i th in the CARICOM area and BDS$6,000 outside the CARICOM a r e a ), expenses of education abroad (BDS$5,000 a person a yea r ), remittances of cash g if ts not exceeding BDS$100 a donor a year, subscriptions to newspapers and maga- zines, income tax refunds, official paymen ts, and life insurance premiums. App l ica t ions for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unau thor ized t ran s fer of capital seems to be involved. The cost of transportation to any destina- tion may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Residents traveling to any des t ina t ion outside Barba- dos may take out fore ign currency notes and coin up to the value of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$100. Nonresident visitors are not permitted to take out any Barbados currency but may freely export any foreign currency they had previously brought in. BARBADOS Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export of cer ta in goods to any country; these include rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and petroleum products. All other goods may be exported without license. The collection of export proceeds is supervised by the Cen- tral Bank to ensure that proceeds in fore ign currencies are surrendered within six mon ths f rom the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds f rom inv is ib les must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Barbados may b r ing in freely notes and coin denominated in Barbados dollars or in any fore ign currency. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon re tu rn to Barbados. Capital A ll outward capital t rans fe rs, in c lud ing direct invest- ments by residents and the purchase by residents of fore ign .currency securities and of real estate situated abroad, require exchange control approval. Certificates of t i t le to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged w i th an authorized depository in Bar- bados, and ea rn ings on these securities must be repatri- ated and surrendered to an au thor ized dealer. Personal capital t rans fe rs, such as inher i tances due to nonresidents, require exchange control approval. Transfers in respect of inheritances are restricted to BDS$20,000 annua l ly for each nonresident benef ic iary. Dowries in the fo rm of settlements and cash g if ts may be transferred to nonres iden ts with exchange control approval, normally up to BDS$500 a donor a year. Em igra t ing Barbad ian nationals are granted settling-in allowances f rom their declared assets at the rate of BDS$20,000 a f am i ly u n it a year. The Central Bank also considers applications f rom fo re ign nationals who have resided in Barbados and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad, provided that they declare their assets held in Barbados. Direct investment by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The rem i t tance of earnings on, and l iqu ida t ion proceeds f rom, such invest- ment is perm i t ted, subject to the submission of docu- mentary evidence as to the validity of the rem i t tance, the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment, and the registration of the original investment with the Central Bank. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of securi- ties registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is freely given on condition that an adequa te amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds f rom the realization of these securities may be remitted when it is established 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS that the original inves tment was financed f rom foreign currency sources. Nonresidents may acquire real estate in Barbados for private purposes with funds f rom foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. Proceeds from the realiza- tion of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated rate of return on the original foreign investment, as follows: for the last five years at 8 per cent a year; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years at 5 per cent; and for any period preceding the last ten years at 4 per cent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to bor- row in Barbados. Authorized dealers may assume short- term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. Gold Gold coins with face values of BDS$100 and BDS$200 are legal tender and are in limited circula- tion. Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic pur- poses only. Otherwise, any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an authorized dealer unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, autho- rized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold by residents are permitted for indus tr ial purposes and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the M in is t ry of Agriculture, Food, and Consumer A f f a i r s; no license is required to export gold, but exchange control permission is required to do so. Changes during 1981 January 1. Turkey, ham, and frozen french fries were placed on the list of items subject to quantitative restrictions, while imports of wood items were removed from the list. March 12. Corned beef was placed on the list of items requiring import license. March 31. With effect f rom this date, death duties on the estate of the deceased were abolished. April 1. "Chemfield" and s im i lar products, welding- wire mesh fabr ic, gramophone records, and other speci- fied items were placed on the list of items requiring import license. June 11. Cotton pajamas, nightgowns, dusters, and dressing gowns were placed on the list of items subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions. October 1. Figurines made of wood were removed from the list of items requiring import license, while trucks and other vehicles were added to the list. October 29. Exchange Control Authority Direction 1981 was issued, empowering the Central Bank of Barbados to request returns on the earnings and dis- posal of fore ign exchange by hotels and other tourist establishments in Barbados. November 3. Jams, f ru it jellies, marmalades, f ru it puree, and f r u it pastes in the fo rm of cooked prepara- tions were added to the list of items requiring import license, while numerous other items were removed f rom the list, including canned corn, cosmetics, malt beer, bacon, ham, certain f ru it juices, and nonmotorized cycles. 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belgium is the Belgian Franc. The currency of Luxembourg is the Luxembourg Franc, which, in accordance with a Luxembourg decree, is at par with the Belgian franc. Luxembourg is linked to Belgium in a monetary association. Belgium and Luxem- bourg participate w i th Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, and the Nether- lands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS ). In accor- dance with this agreement, Belgium and Luxembourg ma in ta in the spot exchange rates between the Belgian f ranc and the Luxembourg f ranc and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 per cent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 per cen t) above or below the bilateral central rates. The agreement implies that the National Bank of Bel- gium stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amoun ts at speci- fied intervention rates. On December 31, 1981 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Danish kroner 100 French francs lOO d e u t s c h em a rk 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders Belgian Francs or Luxembourg Francs Upper limit Lower limit 526.90 675.10 1,729.75 60.9020 33.275 1,564.85 503.75 645.40 1,653.6 58.2225 29.51 1,496.0 The participants in the EMS are not ma in ta in ing exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention curren- cies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. In Belgium-Luxembourg there are two spot exchange markets, the official (reglemente or regulated) market and the free market, which are separated; foreign cur- rency acquired in one market may not be sold in the other. Most current transactions are settled in the official marke t: only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market. Most capital transactions take place in the f ree market. In a few cases, however, there is freedom of choice as to the exchange market in which conversion is to be effected. In the official market most convertible currencies are dealt.1 However, although Zairian currency (the zai're) 1 Currencies dealt in the official market are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese is officially quoted, the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) does not permit the use of the zai're in settlements with countries other than Zaire, or the exchange of the zai're for convertible Belgian francs or other convertible currencies. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Nonbank residents may not acquire or surrender con- vertible currencies in the official spot market un t il a foreign payment is due. Nonbank residents may make fo rwa rd purchases and sales of convertible currencies in the official market through authorized banks, pro- vided that any fore ign currency purchased is used for the authorized settlement of obligations w i th in 15 work- ing days f rom delivery (on the delivery date itself if the ma tu r i ty of the fo rwa rd contract is less than 15 d a y s ); exchange not used w i th in that period must be resold in the official ma rke t. Profits resulting from fo rwa rd con- tracts not used to cover authorized inward or ou tward payments th rough the official market must be sur- rendered to the Treasury. On December 31, 1981 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the official market were BF 38.3850 and BF 38.5350, respectively, per US$1. In the free exchange market, all currencies (including domestic and foreign bankno tes) may be bought and sold at f ree ly fluctuating rates. On December 31, 1981 the f ree market rates between banks for the U.S. dollar were BF 42.35 buy ing and BF 42.55 selling, per US$1. Any resident or nonresident, including banks, may deal in the f ree market. Forward transactions, whether by banks or nonbanks, are uncontrolled and do not require a permitted under ly ing transaction. There is normally no intervention in fo rwa rd exchange in either exchange market. Belgium and Luxembourg fo rma l ly accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg; the two countries constitute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Administration of Control The u l t ima te responsibility for the adm in is tra t ion of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union is exercised by the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange Ins t i tu te ( IBLC ). Exchange control powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks. The Belgo-Luxembourg Administrative Com- mission has authority to license trade transactions; it yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South A f r ican rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rone r, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. The Aus tra l ian dollar and the South A f r ican rand are not officially quoted. 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG determines import and export policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the licensing offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made through the appropriate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appropriate category of nonresi- dent account. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries (comprising Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire, although the BLEU is not a party to any bilateral payments agreement) and the con- vertible area (all other countries). All inward and outward transactions are classified in four groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, indus- trial expenses (e.g., costs of processing), and other com- mercial expenses, including insurance. List B covers settlements of travel agencies, salaries, pensions, fees, subscriptions, taxes, and public administration pay- ments. List C covers (1) sharing in administrative expenses of central offices by branches or affiliates; (2) income on securities, loans, etc., rents, and oper- ating profits; and ( 3) repatriation of certain foreign long-term investments and transfers by emigrants of foreign nationality. List D covers gifts, life insurance payments, fam i ly maintenance payments, capital invest- ments, liquidation of investments, dealings in gold, trans- fers by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, transfers by immigrants, inheritances, forward covering of merchandise, private travel expenses (except when settled through travel agencies), and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for foreign payments are as summarized in the table below. In addition to the general methods of settlement described above, individual licenses are granted in order to allow transfers through the official market for some of the transactions mentioned in List D. These cover essentially direct investment by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals. Conversely, import and export of diamonds, including related costs, may only be paid for in foreign currencies through the free mar- ket, or in Belgian or Luxembourg francs by means of nonresident Financial Accounts, or in domestic or for- eign banknotes. Payments for goods of Egyptian origin SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACTION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET Outward Payments Convertible Convertible Official Convertible Convertible Bilateral Any Any Official or Free Free NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Convertible Convertible or Financial Financial Bilateral* A,B C D A,B,C,D A,B C D A,B C D Inward Payments Convertible Convertible Official Convertible Convertible Convertible Other Official or Free Free ) Convertible ) or Financial Convertible Any Free Bilateral Convertible Official Financial or Convertible Bilateral or Convertible* Bilateral Convertible Other Official or Free Free ) Bilateral or J Convertible* Bilateral Any Free Bilateral or Convertible* 80 * Bilateral Account of the country concerned. Settlements with Zaire may alternatively be made by debit or credit to Convertible Accounts in zai'res held with banks in Zaire. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — (other than rice, raw cotton, and crude pe tro leum) are subject to special rules. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg f ranc accounts of nonresi- dents are classified as follows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official market, and accounts may be opened freely in the name of any nonresident.2 They are not related to any coun- try or monetary area. They may be used freely for settlements with residents, which either must or may be made through the official market and for retransfer abroad through the official marke t, and they may be credited freely with proceeds from the sale by a non- resident of convertible currencies in the official market to authorized banks in Belgium and Luxembourg. Bal- ances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred freely to other Convertible Accounts or be converted into any currency in the official market. Advances on Convertible Accounts other than mail-credit advances are subject to authorization by the IBLC. A m in imum debtor interest rate may be prescribed dur ing certain periods for mail- credit advances in Convertible Accounts of banks, with the exception of those for developing countries. Con- vertible Accounts may be held in the form of sight accounts (demand depos i ts), prior notice accounts, and time deposits. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area countries.3 They may be used freely for settlements, which either must or may be made through the free market and for retransfer abroad through the f ree market, and they may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a non- resident of gold or any currency in the free market. Domestic banknotes and proceeds from the sale in the free market of foreign banknotes, when deposited with authorized banks by foreign travelers in Belgium and Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad, may be credited to Financial Accounts. Transfers between Financial Accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated in the free market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries and are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They are used for settlements with bilateral 3 International organizations and fo re ign diplomatic representations established in the BLEU ma in ta in Special Accounts, which are equivalent to Convertible Accounts but are not subject to the restric- tions applicable to the latter. Foreign employees of these organiza- tions and representations may maintain Special Convertible Accounts which may be credited with part of their remunera t ion in Belgian francs. 3 Foreign diplomats, foreign nationals employed by diplomatic representations accredited in the BLEU and by specified in te rna t ional organizations situated in the BLEU, individuals residing in Bu rund i, Rwanda, or Zai're, and BLEU nationals residing abroad temporar i ly for professional reasons are authorized to maintain Assimilated Resi- dent Accounts. BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG countries and may be credited with proceeds from the sale of convertible currencies by a nonresident in the official market. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may also be made freely between Bilateral Accounts related to Burund i, Rwanda, and Zaire. In practice, the authorities permit the con- version of balances on Bilateral Accounts of the central banks of these three countries into foreign currencies in the official market. Interest, charges, and commissions relating to any nonresident account must be credited or debited either to the account in question or to another of the same category. Imports and Import Payments Individual licenses are required for ( 1) all imports f rom Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam ,4 and (2) a number of imports from all other countries outside the BLEU.5 The com- modities for which individual licenses are required include many textile products, certain agricultural prod- ucts and foodstuffs, coal and petroleum products, and diamonds. All other commodities are free of license and quan t i ta t ive restriction; the sole requirement is a form completed by the importer giving notification of the payment (payment declaration —model A ), which must be presented to an authorized bank. No exchange control documentation is required for imports not exceeding BF 100,000 in value. Many commodities subject to individual licensing are also admitted w i thout quantitative restriction. Along with other EC countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile prod- ucts from non-EC countries; the BLEU also applies a system of m in imum import prices to foreign steel products. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC are subject to import levies, which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. An authorized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and that foreign exchange is not required until the import payment is due. Exchange control approval is required for payments for imports more than three months before or six months af ter the date of customs clearance; prior examination of supporting documents 4 Import licenses are issued freely for a large number of com- modities when originating in and shipped f rom Bulgaria, Czechoslo- vak ia, Ge rman Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 5 Most imports in the latter group do not require an import license when imported from the Netherlands or from other EC countries. 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG by the IBLC is required for payments exceeding BF 25 million and for payments made more than 30 days before the date of customs clearance. However, in the latter case, prior examination is not required if payment takes place either under a documentary credit or on a documentary collection basis, provided that documents are submitted to the authorized bank show- ing that the goods have already been shipped to the BLEU. Payments for transit transactions must be made not later than three months from the date of any advance payment collected from the foreign buyer, and may not be made earlier than three months before the date on which such payment is expected to be received. Payments for Invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for transac- tions included in Lists A and B must be made through the official exchange ma rket or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account. For pay- ments exceeding BF 25 million and in other exceptional cases, prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required. Payments to convertible area countries for items in List C may be made through either the official market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account) or the f ree market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic bankno tes); payments for items in List D must be made through the free market (alter- natively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic bank- no te s ); payments to bilateral countries must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the country concerned; payments to Zai're, however, may also be made in zai'res through a convertible account in Zaire. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Individual licenses are required for specified exports to all countries outside the BLEU.6 All other exports are free of license; only a form (notice of export — model B) completed by the exporter and giving notifica- tion of the export is required. Exchange control documentation is not required for exports of less than BF 100,000 in value. The autho- rized bank is required to ver ify that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Special authoriza- tion is required to collect export proceeds more than six months af ter the date of exportation. Export pro- ceeds in convertible currencies must be surrendered to an authorized bank (i.e., sold in the official exchange m a rk e t) within eight days of receipt or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a Controlled Resident Account 6 Most exports do not require an export license when exported to the Netherlands or to other EC countries. 82 in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Advance collection of export proceeds more than three months before the expected date of exportation requires prior authoriza- tion by the IBLC. Proceeds from transit transactions must be collected within three months f rom the date of payment to the foreign supplier. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies f rom invisibles connected with commercial transactions (Lists A and B—see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange mar- ke t) within eight days of receipt or, alternatively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for authorized current payments. Receipts in con- vertible currencies from transactions included in List C may be retained or sold in the official or the free mar- ket. Receipts from other transactions (List D) and receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Proceeds f rom transactions included in Lists C and D may also be collected in domestic or foreign banknotes. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions with convertible area coun- tries may be carried out through the free market, by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals, including g if ts, fam i ly maintenance payments, remittances by emi- gran ts of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and inheri- tances, but not transactions of a financial na ture, may also be made through the official marke t, subject to ind iv idual license. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign invest- ments made in Belgium and Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the official market (under special license and as an exception to the s tanda rd pre- scription of currency set out above) may be repatriated through that market. Also eligible for outward t rans fer through the official market are the amortization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by residents of convertible area countries, provided that such securities have been held at least 18 months prior to the ma tu r i ty date. All transactions in securities by residents or nonresidents are free, but the financial settlement of such transactions must conform to the general regulations for capital transactions. The prior approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capital market by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution nonresidents; most of the Belgian f r anc bond issues on the domestic capital market have, in practice, been made by in terna t ional organizations, while issues of Eurobonds denominated in Belgian francs are not nor- mally permitted. The Luxembourg authorities have, from time to time, permitted Eurobond issues denominated in Luxembourg francs. Public bids by foreign com- panies or individuals for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Outward pay- ments for capital transactions with bilateral countries may be made only in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Accounts or, in the case of Zaire, in zaires; inward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries may be made in Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs through Bilateral Accounts, in any cur- rency through the free market or, in the case of Zaire, in zaires. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in coin or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. Settlements in respect of gold transactions with convertible area countries (other than payments for semiprocessed gold imported by professional users) may be made only through the free market, through Financial Accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, or in domestic or foreign bank- notes. No customs duties or other charges are levied BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG on imports or exports of gold, except imports for indus- trial or hand ic ra ft purposes. Licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold; these are issued to pro- fessional users, who have to make payment through the official marke t. Transactions in monetary gold are sub- ject to a value-added tax in Belgium at a rate of 6 per cent.7 Changes during 1981 September 1. Transactions in monetary gold became subject to a value-added tax of 6 per cent in Belgium. (The tax was reduced to 1 per cent on March 1, 1982.) November 25. The m in imum period of foreign own- ership of quoted bonds redeemable through the official market was increased from 6 to 18 months. December 21. It was announced that, with effect f rom this date, only 25 per cent of the salaries of the staff of embassies and international organizations estab- lished in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union could be deposited in a Special Convertible Account, w i thout special authorization f rom the Belgo-Luxem- bourg Exchange Institute. December 22. A requirement was introduced that interest, charges, and commissions relating to any non- resident account must be credited or debited either to the account in question or to another of the same category. 7 The value-added tax on transactions in mone ta ry gold in Belgium was reduced f rom 6 per cent to 1 per cent on March 1, 1982. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE1 (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belize is the Belize Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at a rate of B$l = US$0.50. The buying and selling rates for transactions between the Monetary Authority and the commercial banks are B$ 1.9937 and B$2.0063, respectively. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates in transactions between the banks and members of the public were B$ 1.9825 and B$2.0175, respectively. The Monetary Authority (soon to be replaced by a central bank) quotes daily rates for the pound sterling and the Canadian dollar. Administration of Control The Monetary Authority is responsible for the admin- istration of exchange control, which is applicable to all countries. Authority covering a wide range of opera- tions is delegated to the commercial banks in their capacity as authorized dealers. Only in exceptional cases or in applications involving substantial amounts is reference made directly to the Monetary Authority. However, all applications for foreign exchange processed by authorized dealers are regularly forwarded to the Monetary Authority for aud it and record keeping. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency The only prescription of currency requirement relates to a specified list of currencies2 in which authorized intermediaries are permitted to deal with the public. Payments to a CARICOM member country must be made in the currency of that country. Nonresident Accounts Permission of the Monetary Authority is needed for banks to open external or foreign currency accounts. The Monetary Authority may direct also that sums to be credited or paid to fore ign residents be credited to a blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports require authorization by the Monetary Au thor i ty; in most cases such authorization is delegated to the commercial banks. For reasons of health, standardization, and protection of domestic industries, import licenses from the Ministry of Trade and Industry are required for a number of goods, mostly food and agricultural products, and certain 1 Belize became a member of the International Monetary Fund on March 16, 1982. 2 Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and the currencies of the member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM ). The CARICOM countries are An t igua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, G renada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis- Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 84 household and construction produc ts; such licenses are liberally administered. There are no quota limits nor other quan t i ta t ive restrictions for balance of payments reasons. Goods imported in to the coun try are subject to import duties, ad valorem, in m any cases, and spe- cific, in others. Imports by the pub l ic sector and certain nonp ro f it entities, imports of an emergency or human i- ta r ian na tu re, and goods for re-export are exempt f rom import duties; goods o r ig ina t ing f rom the CARICOM area are also exempt. All imports are subject to a stamp duty of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on paymen ts for invisibles. Authorized dealers have the power to prov ide fore ign exchange for such paymen ts below certain limits. The following limits are applied to purchases of fo re ign exchange: (a) nonbusiness travel by residents, up to B$ 1,500 a person a calendar year; (b) business travel, B$200 a day a person, up to B$6,000 a year; (c) busi- ness or nonbusiness travel by nonresidents, B$500 a person a year, except where payment is made f rom an ex ternal account or f rom proceeds of foreign cu r rency; (d) educa t ional allowance, B$500 a course a year; and (e) g if ts, B$100 a donor. Requests in excess of these amoun ts are referred to the Mone tary Au tho r i ty; all bona fide requests are granted. Exports of fore ign and domestic banknotes and cur- rency are subject to l im i ts as follows: travelers may carry banknotes up to B$100 a person in domestic banknotes and the equivalent of B$400 in fore ign cur- rency, except th at a visitor may take out such notes up to the amount imported. Amoun ts beyond these limits require approval of the Monetary Au thor i ty, which is liberally granted when jus t i f ied. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for most of the export products. Export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than six months a f ter the date of shipment, unless determined otherwise by the Monetary Authority. A small number of items3 are subject to an ad valorem export du ty of between 2 per cent and 5 per cent. Re-exports and transshipments are subject to a 2 per cent adm in is tra t ive fee. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds f rom invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Belize are f ree to br ing in notes and coins denom ina ted in Belize dollars up to B$100 a person, but there are no restric- tions on imports of foreign currency. Resident travelers are required to sell the ir excess holdings of fo re ign cur- rencies to an au thor ized dealer upon re tu rn to Belize. 3 Lobster, shrimp, conch, fish, tur t les, mahogany, wild animals, and sugar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution _____ BELIZE Capital All capital transfers require approval of the Monetary Authority, but control is l ibera l ly administered. Qold Residents may not hold gold except by specific au tho- rization from the Monetary Authority. Gold may neither be imported nor exported without the approval of the Monetary Authority. Changes during 1981 T A?ril 23' ImPort duties on bevei"aSe S' cigarettes, and petroleum products were increased. In addition, the stamp duty on retained imports was increased from 4 per cent to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. August 8. A new list of goods requiring import licenses was issued. October 3. A number of products, including various paper products, were eliminated f rom the list of prod- ucts requ i r ing import licenses. December 24. Isopropyl alcohol and bleaching agents were added to the list of goods requiring import licenses. 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Benin is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buy- ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French f ranc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for trans- fers from countries outside the West African Monetary Un ion and one of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Benin's exchange con- trol measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Over- seas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries, but for purposes of certain capital controls, the countries specified in this paragraph are also regarded as foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of External Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce. The Ministry of Finance, however, has the main respon- sibility for drawing up the exchange control regulations. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Admin- istration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be car- ried out by authorized intermediaries. Import licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Commerce. Exports of diamonds and other precious or semiprecious materials require prior approval in the form of a decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Since Benin is an Operations Account country, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and i Jhe CFA f r anc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 86 the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Maur i tan ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are nor- mally made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settle- ments with the People's Republic of China, however, are made through special accounts.3 All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresidents accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent for credit to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter with an authorized bank. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO banknotes mailed by authorized intermediaries direct to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or proceeding f rom South Afr ica are prohibited. Certain imports, such as nar- cotics, are prohibited from all sources. The Societe de 1'Alimentation Generate du Benin (AGB) has a monopoly over the importation of sugar, rice, wheat, wheat flour, condensed milk, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco. Certain other agencies have an import monopoly for other specified commodities. Imports of all other goods originating in countries in the French Franc Area may be made free ly without an import license. Imports of all other goods originating in EC countries other than France may also be made freely; these goods require a license, which is issued auto- matically. Certain imports are liberalized when origi- nating in member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) other than Japan and require only an import certificate made out by the importer himself. Imports of non- liberalized commodities originating in OECD countries, all imports originating in Japan, and all imports originat- ing in non-OECD countries are subject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import pro- gram. Under this program, a global quota is established 3 There is an inoperative payments agreement with Hungary. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for imports from all countries outside the French Franc Area except EC countries. Certain French textiles processed in foreign countries are licensed separately. All imports originating in foreign countries, when valued at more than CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before ship- ment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to South Africa and Zimbabwe are pro- hibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted free ly; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate of External Com- merce, but for many types of invisibles the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Administration have been empowered to make payments abroad freely on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a trip for each person (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Benin must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maxi- mum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Benin is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Opera- tions Account countries. Resident travelers to countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign banknotes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, subject to adjustment for amounts exchanged for CFA francs or obtained by exchange of foreign currency. Nonresident travelers may take out freely the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank- BENIN notes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by the Operations Account countries; a maximum amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 in foreign banknotes; and any amount in other foreign means of payment (travel- ers checks, etc.) established abroad and in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa and Zimbabwe are pro- hibited. Exports to all fore ign countries, inc lud ing the French Franc Area, must be domiciled with an autho- rized bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. All exports, except gold and diamonds, are free of license but require an export application visaed by the Directorate of External Commerce. The due date of payment for exports to foreign countries may not be later than 180 days a f ter the arrival of the commodi- ties at their destination; irrespective of the currency of payment, the proceeds must be rem i t ted through an authorized domiciliary bank within one month of the due date. Prior authorization is required for the reten- tion, sale, import, or export of raw diamonds and of precious and semiprecious materials. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount of bank- notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area; resi- dents bringing in foreign bankno tes and foreign cur- rency travelers checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must declare them to the customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Transfers of capital between Benin and South A f r ica and Zimbabwe are prohibited. Capital movements between Benin and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital t rans fe rs to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct investment and all outward investment in foreign coun- tries, and over the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Benin. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Com- merce. Exempt from authorization, however, are opera- 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN tions in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Beninese Government and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issuance or sale in Benin has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at plac- ing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Benin require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance; at least 75 per cent of such investments must be financed f rom foreign borrowing.4 Foreign direct investments in Benin5 must be declared to the Minister before they are made. The Minister may request the postponement of the operations, within a period of two months. The fu ll or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declaration. Both the making and the liquida- tion of investments, whether these are Beninese invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Benin, must be reported to the Minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not consid- ered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting firms (approved by the Minister of Commerce) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one bor- rower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister of Commerce if the loan itself was sub- 4 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Benin. 5 Including those made by companies in Benin that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Benin of foreign companies. 88 ject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt f rom special au thor iza t ion. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce. The Investment Code (Ordinance No. 72-1 of Jan- ua ry 8, 1972) provides for preferen t ial status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in indus t ry, mining, fisheries, agr icu l ture, and tourism, when such investments are deemed to be of value to na t ional development. Four p re fe ren t ial regimes are established. Plan A is intended for medium-sized investments and provides, du r ing a period of up to 5 years, for exemption f rom import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the production of the pro- posed item and from certain other taxa t ion. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a max imum exemption period of 8 years and provides, in addition to the bene- fits of Plan A, certain other tax privileges. Plan C is intended for enterprises unde r tak ing to invest more than CFAF 500 million and is granted for a period of up to 15 years. In addition to the benefits of Plan B, Plan C guarantees stability of tax status, f r ee choice of suppliers, and certain other advantages. For Plans A, B, and C up to two years for installation time can be added to the period of the agreement. Plan D provides certain benefits for Beninese entrepreneurs investing at least CFAF 10 million. The method of application of the Investment Code is set out in Decree No. 72-7 of January 17, 1972. Gold Prior authorization in the form of a decree issued by the Council of Ministers, ac t ing on the advice of the Minister in Charge of Mines, is requ ired to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in, raw d iamonds and precious or semiprecious ma ter ia ls. In practice, residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Benin. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other coun try require pr ior au tho r iza t ion by the Minister of Commerce, which is seldom gran ted. Exempt f rom this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; ( 2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles con ta in ing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated ar t ic les); and ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a max imum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1981 Circular Nos. 515/MF, 518 /MF, and 519 /MF were issued dur ing the year, modifying, respectively, the regu- lations on (a) spot foreign exchange purchases for import payments; (b) the permissible du ra t ion of for- ward exchange cover for imports; and (c) the financing of new foreign investments abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN1 (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bhu tan is the Ngu l t rum. Since its in troduc t ion in 1974 it has been pegged to the Indian rupee, which also circulates in Bhu tan, at a rate of Nu 1 = Rs 1. At present Bhu tan has no central bank. For large transac t ions, buy ing and selling rates quoted by the commercial bank for other currencies are deter- mined on the basis of the p reva i l ing quo ta t ions for those currencies by the Reserve Bank of India. In the absence of large transac t ions, exchange rates for other currencies may be de term ined on the basis of the most recent quotations by the Reserve Bank of India. No other exahange rates app ly to in te rna t ional transactions, and there are no subsidies or taxes on exchange transac t ions. On December 31, 1981 the buy ing and selling rates of the ngu l t rum for the U.S. dollar were Nu 9.0780 and N u 9 . 1 20 per US$1, respectively. Administration of Control The M in is try of Finance controls external transac- tions and provides foreign exchange for most current and capital transactions. Prescription of Currency There are no regu la t ions prescribing use of specific currencies in external receipts and payments. Imports and Import Payments All import payments other than those made in Indian 1 Bhutan became a member of the In terna t ional Monetary Fund on September 28, 1981. rupees are subject to prior permission f rom the Minis- try of Finance. The M in is try has discretionary autho- r i ty to deny foreign exchange for the payment of l u x u ry imports. Customs duties exist on imports other than f rom Ind ia. those Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of antiques of Bhu tanese origin are pro- hibited. Proceeds of exports in currencies other than the Ind ian rupee must be surrendered to the Ministry of Finance. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All invisible payments other than those made in Ind ian rupees are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. All receipts f rom invisible transactions in currencies other than the Ind ian rupee must be sur- rendered to the M in is try of Finance. Capital All capital transactions are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. Gold There are no specific regulations on transactions in gold. Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bolivia is the Bolivian Peso. On November 30, 1979 the authorities announced the abolition of the fixed exchange rate regime for the peso and the adoption of a fluctuating exchange rate system to be administered by the Central Bank in accordance with market conditions. However, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, have since been maintained at $b 24.51 and $b 24.53, respectively, per US$1.1 Buy- ing and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. Sales of foreign exchange by the commer- cial banks and exchange houses are subject to an exchange tax of 1.6 per cent and a stamp tax of 0.2 per cent and, in addition, the selling rate is subject to a banking commission of 0.1 per cent. Accordingly, the effective selling rate of the commercial banks and exchange houses is $b 25 per US$1. Bolivia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from June 5, 1967. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank of Bolivia. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Bolivia and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multi- lateral clearing system of the Latin American Integra- tion Association. Imports and Import Payments All public and private imports are subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance. Imports by public sector agencies require in addition authorization by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Import applications must be consistent with the official foreign exchange budget. The import of manufactured goods that are produced locally is 1 In connection with the introduction of a set of policy measures, the Bolivian authorities declared new exchange rates of $b 43.13 — US$1 selling and $b 44.0 = US$1 buying, on February 5, 1982; other measures simultaneously introduced included abolition of the exchange tax of 1.6 per cent as well as of the stamp tax of 0.2 per cent. 2 Argentine pesos, Belgian francs, Brazilian cruzeiros, Canadian dollars, Chilean pesos, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, Peruvian soles, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 90 prohibited, in particular, articles of clothing, detergents, and cement. Importation of diesel-powered vehicles and secondhand equipment is also prohibited. Foreign exchange to pay for imports may be purchased from commercial banks, which must obtain prior confirma- tion from the Central Bank on the availability of foreign exchange. All foreign credits, inc lud ing officially guaranteed suppliers' credits, are subject to authorization by the National Council for Planning and Economy and to control by the Central Bank. Applicants for import authorization must present photocopies of import documents, such as the invoice, description of the articles purchased, and a clearance f rom the Bolivian tax administration that the applicant is not in arrears on taxes. Most private sector imports are subject to a customs surcharge of 1 per cent ad valorem. Most imports also are subject to an "additional tax," to an import sur- charge of 3 per cent, and to a tax on services rendered of 1 per cent to 8 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Private banks requ ire prior authorization from the Central Bank for selling foreign exchange to finance import of invisibles. Residents of Bolivian or foreign nationality must pay a travel tax when leaving the country. The tax is $b 200 for air travel to neighbor- ing countries, $b 100 for overland travel to such coun- tries, $b 450 for air travel to other Latin American countries, and $b 600 for air travel to countries outside Latin America. Financing abroad for imports of ser- vices requires prior authorization by the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not normally subject to licensing, although certain exports may be prohibited or restricted from time to time owing to domestic demand and supply factors. All proceeds from exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the Central Bank within 15 days of receipt, with the exception of reason- able amounts deducted for foreign exchange expendi- tures undertaken to effect the export. As regards minerals, COMIBOL and the medium-sized mines export their own production, and the M in ing Bank that of the small private mines. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles may be retained or sold in the exchange marke t. Capital Foreign exchange for outward capital t rans fe rs by residents or nonresidents can be purchased f rom the banks only upon approval by the Central Bank. Inward capital transfers may be made freely, but government ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution receipts of transfers and grants and all proceeds of borrowings from foreign public sector agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All fore ign credits, including suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities, and credits to the private sector with official guaran tee, are subject to prior authorization by the National Council for Planning and Economy and to control by the Central Bank. Most foreign loans must be registered with the Na t ional Investment Institute. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involv- ing petroleum and m in ing, are governed by the provi- sions of the Investment Law (Decree-Law No. 10045) of December 16, 1971. The law is administered by the National Investment Institute. Investments in petro- leum and mining are governed by the General Hydro- carbons Law and the M in ing Code. Certain foreign investments are subject to Decisions Nos. 24 and 103 of the Cartagena Agreement. Gold Imports and exports of gold and domestic trad ing in gold are regulated by the Central Bank. The Central Bank also purchases, for its use or for export in the form of gold bars, the total national production of gold. Without affecting these powers of the Central Bank, the Mining Bank may purchase at home and sell abroad, in unworked form, the ou tput of gold, silver, and platinum. The Mining Bank also sells gold, silver, and platinum on the domestic market subject to conditions that it establishes jo in t ly with the Central Bank. The Central Bank is empowered to purchase its fu ll requirements of gold from the Mining Bank. Cooperatives and other producers must sell the gold they produce to the Central Bank. The Mining Bank is authorized to sell a specified quan t i ty of gold annually to domestic jewelers and dentists and is obliged to sell BOLIVIA the remainder to the Central Bank. Residents may freely purchase, re ta in, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars in Bolivia. Changes during 1981 January 12. Supreme Decree No. 17938 abolished Decrees No. 12929 and No. 12984 of October 3 and 22, 1975, respectively, thus te rm ina t ing the require- ment that all imports should be secured by a prior deposit of up to 25 per cent. February 20. Certain import du ty rates were reduced under Supreme Decree No. 17930. June 12. Supreme Decree No. 18403 approved a new foreign exchange budget. July 13. Supreme Decree No. 18487 modified the foreign exchange budget. July 30. Supreme Decree No. 18530 in troduced the following new exchange control and import regulations: (a) private banks must obtain authorization from the Central Bank for all sales of foreign exchange to the public; (b) all imports would require authorization f rom the Ministry of Finance and would be approvable only if consistent with the foreign exchange budget; (c) financing abroad for imports of goods and services would require prior authorization of the Central Bank; (d) a f ter ob ta in ing all relevant documents from import applicants, a commercial bank would be required to confirm with the Central Bank the availability of foreign exchange; and (e) among the necessary docu- ments, an import applicant would be required to pre- sent a clearance f rom the Bolivian tax administration confirming that the importer is not in arrears on taxes. September 11. Prohibition of imports of manufac- tured goods that could be produced locally was extended from public sector agencies to all importers, including those of the private sector. 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana Pula, which is pegged to a basket of currencies consisting of equal amounts for the SDR and the South Afr ican rand. On December 31, 1981 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, were P 0.8779 and P 0.8800, respectively, per US$1; on the same date, the middle rate for the SDR was P 0.9474 per SDR 1. Exchange rates for certain other currencies* are quoted on the basis of their rates against the U.S. dollar in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is applicable to transactions with all countries. The Minister of Finance and Develop- ment Planning has delegated most of the administra- tion of exchange controls to the Bank of Botswana (the central b ank ). The latter, in tu rn, has delegated certain powers to banks appointed as authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from residents of foreign countries must normally be made or received in a foreign cur- rency or through a nonresident-held pula account in Botswana. There are no bilateral payments agree- ments. Imports and Import Payments Botswana is a member of a customs union with Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are generally no import restrictions on goods moving between the four countries. Import permits are required, however, for most goods imported directly into Botswana from outside the customs union. Certain imported goods, including firearms, ammunition, fresh meat, and some agricultural and horticultural products, require permits, regardless of the country of supply. There are no restrictions or delays on payments for authorized imports. Goods of domestic origin may 1 Deutsche mark, South African rand, and pounds sterling. move freely between Botswana, Malawi, and Zimbabwe by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided they are not intended for re-export. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, ma in ly for revenue reasons. Proceeds f rom exports must be received in a foreign currency or f rom a nonresident pula account. For a few items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, permits are required before export is allowed. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not restricted. Au thor i ty to approve some types of current payments is dele- gated to commercial banks up to established limits— such as the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel, which is the equivalent of P 3,000 in a calendar year for an adult and P 1,000 for a child. The allowance for business travel is P 130 a day, up to a max imum of P 5,000 a calendar year. The annu al l im it on remit- tances and tourist travel by temporary residents is P 6,000 or 50 per cent of eligible salary, whichever is greater. Separately, travelers may freely br ing in any amount of domestic banknotes and coin, and take out P 75 in such banknotes and coin. The Bank of Bo- tswana may authorize the ma in tenance of "Retained Accounts" at banks abroad for residents who make frequent foreign payments; these accounts are subject to ceilings. Capital Applications for outward t rans fe rs of capital are decided according to their merits but are generally granted favorable consideration. The rulings on ap- plications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is temporarily a resi- dent foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. There is a terminal allowance of P 6,000 for departing temporary residents. Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 92 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Brazil is the Cruzeiro. Since August 1968 Brazil has followed a flexible exchange rate policy under which the exchange rate for the cruzeiro is adjusted at relatively short intervals in terms of its intervention currency, the U.S. dollar. These adjust- ments take into account ( 1) the movement in prices in Brazil relative to that in its main t rad ing partners, (2) the level of fore ign exchange reserves, (3) export performance, and (4) the overall balance of payments position. Exchange transac t ions are carried out by the Central Bank of Braz i l, the Banco do Bras il S.A., and by banks and tourist agencies au thor ized to deal in foreign exchange; the tourist agencies deal only in banknotes and travelers checks in a "manual market." Un i fo rm i ty between the rates quoted by the monetary authorities and the effective rates of the authorized banks is ensured by the practice of the mone tary authorities of s tand ing ready to purchase exchange f rom the banks and to sell it to the banks at the official rate for approved transac- tions. On December 31, 1981 the buy ing and selling rates quoted by the mone tary authorities to the public were Cr$127.16 and Cr$ 127.80, respectively, per US$1. The same exchange rates are applicable to "agreement dollars" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for the respec- tive currencies in New York and Europe. With spe- cified exceptions, foreign exchange transactions are sub- ject to brokerage fees, calculated on a sliding scale, which result in effective rates w i th in %« of 1 per cent on either side of the rates set by the monetary authorities. On the buying side, other effective rates result from the following arrangements involving the collection of levies in foreign exchange or at the point of exchange settlement at the banks: (1) under Decree-Law No. 1578 of October 11, 1977, the National Monetary Council can impose an export levy in the form of a tax at the rate of 10 per cent (wh ich can be lowered or be raised up to 40 per cen t) and ad valorem export levies on orange juice at a rate of 10 per cent, cornmeal at a rate of 5 per cent, and hides of lamb or cattle at a rate of 18 per cent; (2) special levies ("contribution quotas") on exports of cocoa beans and cocoa products at a rate of 10 per cent, and on coffee at rates varying with the type of coffee (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below); and (3) tax credits on ind irect federal and state va lue-added taxes, gran ted at a rate of 15 per cent of f.o.b. va lue for exports of manufac tured goods. (Certain manu fac tu red exports to the United States are subject to an export tax at the same rates and subject to the same phased schedule as the tax credits.) On the selling side, a d i f fe rent effective rate arises f rom the provision of the Foreign Investment Law which specifies that the sum of net profits and dividends effec- tively remitted to persons and companies resident abroad is subject to a supplementary income tax when the average of actual remittances in any three-year period is in excess of 12 per cent of registered capital and rein- vestment. Another effec t ive rate arises f rom the appli- cation of a financial transactions tax (imposto sobre operates de credito, cdmbio e seguro, e sobre operates relativas a titulos e valores mobiliares) of 25 per cent to purchases of fore ign exchange for impor ts of goods and services, w i th specified exemptions. The Banco do Brasil S.A., the Banco da Amazon ia S.A., and the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil S.A., acting on their own beha lf, carry out a considerable proportion of all exchange transactions, inc lud ing those of all public sector agencies. They sell foreign exchange for the requirements of the Government at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction. Exchange transactions in the currencies of bilateral partner coun- tries are effected by the authorized banks, which settle them w i th the Central Bank. Global daily limits are fixed for the authorized banks' bought and sold positions in foreign exchange. The limits are fixed in relation to the registered capital of each bank; a bank hav ing registered capital of up to Cr$500 m i l l ion may m a in t a in a bought or sold posi- tion of up to US$750,000; over and above that financial base, a bank is allowed a bought position of US$1.5 million and a sold position of up to US$7.5 million. Banks that are authorized to operate exclu- sively in the "manual market" and tourist agencies are permitted to ma in ta in a bought position of up to US$25,000 for each authorized branch, but may not ma in ta in a sold position. The Central Bank supplies foreign exchange to authorized banks in amounts not exceeding those needed to eliminate an oversold posi- tion, and limited to 90 per cent of the exchange sold by the bank concerned to its customers du r ing the same day or on the previous day; included in this limit is their "manual market" position (banknotes and travelers checks). The Central Bank supplies foreign exchange to authorized banks for amortization of foreign loans under Resolution No. 63 and related interest payments. The banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other; t rans fe rs between branches of the same bank are also allowed, subject to certain conditions. Such transactions may be carried out either on a spot basis by cable or on a fo rwa rd basis and must be executed within 2 working days for spot transactions or not later than after 180 days for forward transactions. 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Administration of Control The National Monetary Council is responsible for the fo rmu la t ion of overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the Council, exchange control is operated by the Central Bank's Exchange Department (D ECAM ), while the con- trol over foreign capital is operated by the Department for the Control and Registration of Foreign Capital ( F IRC E ); the latter processes the registration of fore ign capital. General borrowing abroad requires the p r ior approval of the Central Bank. The Department for International Operations (DE P IN) is in charge of the management of in te rna t ional reserves. Limits on inter- na t ional borrowing by the public sector are applied by the Secretariat for Con trol of State-Owned Enterprises (SEST) in the P lann ing Secretariat of the Presidency of the Republic. The Na t ional Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX ), a board headed by the Minister of Finance, formulates fore ign trade policy. The Ministry of Foreign A f fa i rs is the Council's executive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade Department of the Banco do Brasil S.A. (CACEX) implements the Coun- cil's decisions within Brazil. CACEX issues export and import certificates (guias de exporta$ao and guias de importagao}. Coffee exports are regulated by the Brazilian Coffee Institute ( IBC ). The Customs Policy Commission (CPA ), established within the Ministry of Finance, is responsible for fo rmu la t ing guidelines for ta r i ff policy. The CPA also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The import policy of the public sector is coordinated by SEST. Prescription of Currency In principle, prescription of currency is related to the coun try of origin of imports or the coun t ry of final destination of exports, unless otherwise prescribed or authorized. Settlements with bilateral payments agree- ment countries1 are made in clearing dollars through the relevant agreement account. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts main- tained with each other by the Central Bank of Brazil and the other central banks concerned, within the f ramewo rk of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LA IA ). Imports and Import Payments The import of commodities originating in or shipped f rom Cuba is prohibited. CACEX has suspended, the 1 Bilateral accounts are maintained w i th Bulgaria, German Demo- cratic Republic, Hung a ry, Poland, and Romania. Settlements with countries w i th wh ich Brazil has no paymen ts agreements or special payments a r rangemen ts are made in U.S. dollars or other freely usable currencies. 94 issuance of import licenses for a large number of "super- fluous" imports. The importation of a small number of commodities is prohibited. There is also a limitation on the direct import of consumer goods (and on the purchase on the domestic ma rket of any imported con- sumer goods) by the public and semipublic sector (direct organs of the Government, autonomous agencies, public enterprises, and companies w i th mixed public and pri- va te p a r t i c i p a t i o n ). Moreover, the impo r ta t ion, leasing, or pu rcha s ing in the domestic ma rket by the public sector of mach inery, equipment, vehicles, and spare par ts of fore ign origin was limited in 1981 to 80 per cent of the levels established for 1979. All other impor ts may be grouped in to the fo l low ing two broad categories: ( 1) imports that are free of any requ irement to secure prior adm in i s t ra t ive docu- men ta t ion, e.g., samples w i thout commercial value and certain educa t ional materials, and (2) imports that requ ire an import certificate, which is issued auto- ma t ica l ly if it conforms to a previously submitted indic- ative annual import plan. Import certificates are issued on an f.o.b. basis. CACEX is authorized to make a processing charge of up to 0.9 per cent on the va lue of import certificates; as a rule, certificates are valid for 90 days or 180 days, depending on the commodity (60 days for goods subject to price con tro ls). For special bonded warehouse importers, CACEX establishes half- yearly foreign currency quotas and issues clearance certificates based on these importers' semiannual import programs. For a number of specified imports, the import certificate may be obtained a f ter the commodity has been landed but before customs clearance. For certain other imports the prior approval of CACEX is required; these include goods imported by public bodies,2 imports for wh ich ta r i ff concessions are being sought, certain imports w i thout exchange cover, goods for use in fairs and trade exhibitions, certain types of used capital goods, and goods to be brought in with foreign financing on a deferred payment basis. For the last-mentioned category, it is a prior condition for the gran t ing of import certificates for specified commodities that importers must arrange external f inanc ing w i th specified m in imum ma tur i t ies ranging between three years and eight years, depend ing on the type of commodity and the amount of financing involved.8 All importers must be registered with CACEX, and imports can be effected only by registered firms or persons. Importers are required to submit to CACEX an annual import program as a basis for requesting import 2 Under instructions issued by the Economic Development Council, fede ral ministries and subordinate agencies and enterprises are required to subm i t, for approval by the President, an annual inves tment pro- g ram incorpora t ing their expected import requ iremen ts. In 1981 these imports were limited to 80 per cent of the amoun ts established for 1979. 3 Impo rt t ransac t ions below US$100,000 a year for each importer and certain specified imports, inc lud ing direct imports by public administrative bodies, are exempt f rom this requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution licenses. The Minister of Finance may, on a temporary basis, and in accordance w i th the directives of the Economic Development Council (EDC) and without prejudice to commitments under LAIA, authorize CACEX to reject applications for import certificates where (1) imports are for speculative stock-building purposes; (2) imports are causing or are th rea ten ing to cause serious damage to the na t ional economy; or ( 3) imports originate in or are shipped f rom countries that impede Brazilian exports. Goods imported in to the Manaus f ree zone are sub- ject to an annual quo ta. The t r an s f er to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) of fore ign goods originally imported in to the Manaus free zone is restricted to the equivalent of US$600 f ree of import taxes. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. How- ever, CACEX may approve applications for the payment of imports of any goods at terms of up to 360 days from the date of shipment, provided that no import duty concessions or other tax concessions are involved. External financing at terms in excess of 360 days for imports, regardless of the classification of the importer and the purpose of the merchandise, must be authorized by the Central Bank, wh ich w i ll eva lua te them in the light of fore ign debt policy. Registration w i th FIRCE is also dependent on a ru l ing by CACEX that Brazilian firms are unab le to supp ly the imports. Payment of the amount financed, and the interest thereon, may be made only upon presentation of a cer t if ica te of au tho r iza t ion and the related scheme of paymen ts issued by FIRCE. Prior to shipment of the goods, total payments to sup- pliers for the non f inanced am o u nt may not exceed 20 per cent of the import value. Spot exchange contracts may be closed if the con tract is intended to settle d ra f t s, at sight or on ma tu r i ty, and the appropriate sh ipp ing documen ts are presented. Spot exchange con trac ts must be settled on m a t u r i ty of the draft; settlement may take place 2 working days in advance of the m a tu r i ty date. Forward contracts, for up to 180 days, may be closed when a letter of credit is being opened. A deposit requirement equivalent to 100 per cent of the value of the exchange operation is applied, with some exceptions,4 to the contracting of forward exchange for the open ing of letters of credit. Such deposits must be t ran s fe r red to the Central Bank on the working day fo l low ing the con trac t ing of the exchange operation and are released on the date of settlement or the da te of cancellation of the contract. 4 Imports exempt from the deposit requ i rement i n c l u de beef, p r i n t- ing paper for newspapers, magazines, and books, fe r t i l ize r s, cer ta in agricultural chemicals and related raw ma te r ia ls for their p roduc t ion, and goods imported into the Manaus f ree zone for use in local pro- duction. Also exempt are imports au thor ized under drawback opera- tions, imports of seeds and f r u i ts for p lan t ing, and impor ts of beans, soybeans, corn, onions, and copper ore. BRAZIL Letters of credit must be opened w i th in 5 work ing days f rom the date of the exchange contract. Letters of credit for more t h an 360 days may be opened without prior closing of an exchange contract. Commercial banks ord inar i ly require a guarantee deposit for their own protection for fo rwa rd exchange contracts; the amount of the deposit varies with the credit s tand ing of the customer. When the contracts are l iqu ida ted, guaran tee deposits may be used in pay- ment for the foreign exchange. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports of petroleum and petroleum products and of wheat. For pe tro leum and specified petroleum by-products, PETROBRAS concludes for each import transaction an ind iv idual fore ign exchange contract. At the same time, the Banco do Brasil S.A. concludes a fore ign exchange con tract with the Central Bank, to cover its position for an amount equivalent to the value of the ind iv idu al contract at the exchange rate at which the Cen tral Bank sells foreign exchange to commercial banks. For some commodities, eligibility for exemption f rom import duties may be precluded by the existence of sa t isfac tory domestic equivalents (similares nationals); application of such duties may also be affected by the establishment of a m in imum import price (pauta de valor minimo) or of a reference price. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income f rom foreign capital, royalties, and technical assistance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Invest- ment Law. In addition to cer ta in restrictions on remit- tances stipulated in that law, l im i ts are placed on remittances of all royalties and technical assistance fees (see be low). Subject to certain conditions, authorized banks may sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$300 a mon th for personal remittances abroad. Payments for other current invisibles require the approval of DECAM or FIRCE, which authorizes remit- tances freely, subject to the presentation of supporting documents as evidence that a bona fide cu r rent trans- ac t ion is involved. Sales of foreign exchange to meet personal expenses connected with travel abroad are permitted up to US$1,000 a person a trip, without the prior approval of the Central Bank. Applications for purchases of travel exchange in excess of US$1,000 must be sub- mitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits; amoun ts in excess of US$1,000, when au thor ized, may be taken up in the fo rm of payment orders only. Foreign residents in trans it in Brazil are permitted to purchase foreign currency up to the equivalent of the amount they sold du r ing the period of their stay in Brazil; however, purchases in excess of 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 30 per cent of the amount previously sold require the approval of the Central Bank. Remittances abroad of income f rom fore ign direct investments and reinvestments and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are governed by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which con- tains the regulations imp lemen t ing the Foreign Invest- ment Law. Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for pa ten ts and trademarks, and for tech- nical, scientific, and adm in is tra t ive assistance, are regis- tered at FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, be low ). The registration of contracts or deeds for techn ical assistance or the use of patents or trademarks is subject to approval by the National Institute of Indus tr ial Property. Remittances are normally authorized in the currency of the coun t ry of domicile or of the head office of the beneficiaries. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization payments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the certificate of reg is t ra t ion; the remittances are subject to w i thho ld ing tax on income at a rate of 25 per cent, but remitters are eligi- ble for a rebate on the tax paid; in May 1980 the rebate was reduced f rom 95 per cent to 40 per cent of the tax. A progressive supp lemen tary income tax is levied on remittances to persons and companies resident abroad of earnings on foreign capital (o ther than capi- tal invested in Brazilian securities) if their average over a three-year period exceeds 12 per cent of the regis- tered capital and reinvestments. For registered port- folio capital, the supplementary income tax is levied if remittances of dividends, bonuses, and capital gains in each fiscal year exceed 12 per cent of the registered investment. For fore ign capital that produces goods or services for luxury consumption, remittances of profits are limited to 8 per cent a year of the registered capital. Remittances of royalties by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad are not permitted when 50 per cent or more of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign pr inc ipal firm or when the ma jo r i ty of the firm's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Remittances of technical assistance fees (either with or w i thout the use of trademarks and patents) are not permitted, as a rule, when remunera- tion for such services exceeds specified percentages, rang ing from 1 per cent to 5 per cent, of net receipts f rom the sale or m anu f a c tu re of the products. The percentages are the same as those established in Brazil's taxation laws for de term in ing the maximum permissible deductions for such expenses. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign bank- notes freely. 96 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of l icens ing requ iremen ts but require an export ce r t i f ica te issued by CACEX to ensure compli- ance w i th exchange and t rade regu la t ions. Some exports are free of controls, but exports of m any commodities requ ire pr ior approval of CACEX, wh i le exports of spe- cified commodities, i n c l u d i ng cer ta in p r ima ry products and raw ma te r ia ls requ ired for domestic consumption, are prohibited or suspended, and exports of certain other commod i t ies are cond i t ional on prior domestic sales. Exports r equ i r ing app roval inc lude those effected through b i la teral accounts, exports w i thout exchange cover, exports on con s ignmen t, re-exports, commodities for which m i n im um export prices are fixed by CACEX, and exports requ i r ing prior au tho r iza t ion by government agencies. Exports of cer ta in commodities, inc lud ing beef, are subject to an a n n u al quota. Exports of coffee are subject to au tho r iza t ion by the IBC. The IBC does not g rant an au tho r iza t ion to export coffee unless the sale con t ract is based on a price a pound that is at least equal to the m i n im um registra- t ion price (in U.S. do l lars a pound, f .o .b .) fixed periodi- ca l ly by the IBC for the va r ious types of coffee, a l though d iscoun ts are also au thor ized. Expor ters of coffee are requ ired to su r rende r, w i thout compensa t ion, a portion of th e ir fo re ign exchange proceeds in the fo rm of a con t r ibu t ion quo ta wh ich var ies according to the type of coffee. The cruzeiro proceeds f rom the con t r ibu t ion quota are t r an s f e r r ed to the Export Product P ro tec t ion Fund for Coffee. The con t r ibu t ion quotas also are set periodically by the IBC and are fixed in terms of fore ign cu r rency; on December 31, 1981 they were US$50.00 for green or deca f fe ina ted raw-hulled coffee (a bag of 60.5 k i l o g r am s) and for green or ground-roas ted coffee (a bag of 48 k i log r am s ), US$0.75 a pound for spray-dried soluble coffee, and US$0.90 a pound for freeze-dried so lub le coffee. Exporters of coffee convert fore ign exchange proceeds, a f t er deduc- tion of the con t r ibu t ion quotas, at the off ic ial market rate p reva i l ing on the date of exchange contract. Thus, the proceeds received by coffee exporters depend on ( 1) the amount of the con t r ibu t ion quo ta, (2) the actual price received (f .o .b. Brazil, in U.S. dollars), and ( 3) the official ma rket ra te of exchange. Dur ing 1981, the IBC con t inued to make periodic announce- ments of new m i n im um registration prices, as well as con t r ibu t ion quotas for exports of soluble coffee and green, ground-roasted, and deca f fe ina ted coffee. The fo re ign exchange proceeds f rom all other exports are sold at free ly negotiated rates w i th in the limits of the off ic ial ma rke t. Foreign exchange contracts cover- ing such transac t ions may be closed either priod to the shipments of goods or within ten work ing days a f ter shipment. Exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa products are required to surrender w i thout compensation 10 per ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cent of their exchange proceeds.5 The cruzeiro equiva- lent of these deduc t ions is used to f in an ce a program of price support and p lan ta t ion improvement for cocoa. The export of hides of wild an ima ls in any fo rm is suspended. A number of export incen t ives are in opera t ion, principally for m anu f a c tu r ed commodities. Exporters of manufactured goods are eligible for a tax credit on indirect federal and state va lue-added taxes; in 1981 the credit amoun ted to 15 per cent of the f .o .b. va lue of export and is scheduled to be reduced in stages and to be e l im ina ted by J u ne 30, 1983. However, in the case of a number of exports to the Un i ted States (primarily textiles, lea therwares, and f o o tw e a r ), the tax credits are offset by an equ iva lent export tax, subject to the same phased schedule of e l im ina t ion. Var ious lines of credit for exporters, some at p r e f e r en t i al rates of interest, are provided by the Banco do Brasil S.A. and the commercial banks. These f i n a n c i ng fac i l i t ies include both export f inanc ing and the f in an c ing of pro- duction and wa rehous ing for expor t, pa r t icu la r ly for manu fac tu res. In add i t ion, assistance is provided to exporters in the field of export cred it i n s u r a n ce and by way of guaran tees. Proceeds from invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom cu r r ent invisibles must be sold th rough the Banco do Bras il S.A. or the au tho r ized banks at the p r ev a i l ing m a rk et rate. Trave lers checks and foreign banknotes are sold in the "manual market." Brazilian en terpr ises r end e r ing services to tour is ts (e.g., hotels, re s tau ran t s, t ravel agenc ies) may receive income tax rebates in propor t ion to the ir ea rn ings f rom tou r ism, provided that the service is paid for in fore ign exchange and that the tourist en terpr ise converts the exchange into cruzeiros at the official rate.0 Travelers may b r ing in domestic and fo re ign currency notes freely. Capital Capital inflows in the fo rm of financial loans under National Mone ta ry Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, or under the prov is ion of the Foreign Invest- ment Law (Law No. 4 1 3 1) are subject to ceilings and require the prior approval of the Cen tral Bank. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private or public sector when the foreign funds or ig ina te f rom official f inanc ial institu- tions abroad, when the t ran sac t ion is to be gua ran teed by the Na t ional Treasury or, on its beha lf, by any offi- cial credit in s t i tu t ion, and for other fore ign bo r row ing by the public and semipublic sector (i.e., direct organs of the Governmen t, au tonomous agencies, pub l ic enter- prises, and companies w i th mixed public and p r iva te pa r t ic ipa t ion ). Otherwise, inwa rd t ran s fe rs are un- 5 Only 5 per cent in the case of sugared cocoa powder con ta in ing up to 50 per cent of cocoa cake. 6 Application of the re levant Decree-Law No. 1587 of December 20, 1977 is still pending imp lemen t ing regulations. BRAZIL re s t r ic ted and free of control, a l though the subsequent u t i l iza t ion of the proceeds for the acqu is i t ion of certain domestic assets may be subject to control. There is a separate regime for inward portfolio investment. For the purpose of repa tr ia t ion and the remittance of income, however, inwa rd t ran s fe rs of fore ign capital and the re inves tment of prof i ts on fore ign capital must be regis- tered w i th FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined for this purpose as ( 1) goods, machinery, and equ ipment to be used to produce goods or to render services that have entered the coun t ry w i thout an in i t ial corresponding expend i tu re of fore ign exchange and (2) financial and mone ta ry resources brought into the country for invest- ment in economic pu r su i t s, provided tha t, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domi- ciled abroad or w i th headqua r te rs abroad. Foreign cap i tal other than capital invested in Bra- z i l ian securities is classified, for purposes of registration, as d irect inves tmen ts or loans, whe ther impor ted in the fo rm of money or of goods, and it includes reinvested p ro f i ts f rom fo re ign capital. Direct inves tment is def ined as that fore ign cap i tal wh ich constitutes pa rt of the corpora te cap i tal and par t ic ipa tes d irec t ly in the risk inhe rent in an economic unde r tak ing. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enter- prise is considered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to purchase cap i tal goods abroad, whether con trac ted by the m a n u f a c t u r er himself or by a th i rd pa r ty, is con- sidered to be financing (mos t ly supp l iers' c r ed i t ). Persons domiciled or resident abroad may make po r t fo l io investments in B raz i l ian commercial and indus- t r i al securities, provided that t ransac t ions are channeled through a Braz i l ian "investment company" and are e f fec ted on Braz i l ian stock exchanges. Such capital is sub ject to registration w i th the Cen tral Bank and must rema in in the country for at least two years. The mini- mum pa r t ic ipa t ion in po r t fo l io inves tment companies by fo re ign firms or ind iv idua ls is US$1,000. For financial imports and for investments made in the fo rm of goods, the registration is in the currency of the coun try of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head off ice) or, in special circumstances, in the cu r rency of the coun t ry of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in foreign cu r rency, it is necessary to ce r t i fy that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the original market of the loan, that the amortization schedule is not dispro- por t iona te ly heavy in the early stages of repayment, and, in the case of import financing loans, that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of com- parable goods in the country of origin. If the terms of financing are approved, CACEX examines the applica- t ions for some fore ign borrowing in the light of the price and essentiality of the proposed import and of the ava i lab i l i ty of satisfactory domestic equivalents. Capital en te r ing Brazil is registered in foreign cur- rency. Reinvestments are defined as profits of com- 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL panics established in Brazil and accruing to persons or companies resident or domiciled abroad. Such profits must have been reinvested in the same companies that produced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simultaneously in Brazilian currency and in the currency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calculated at the average exchange rate prevailing between the date on which the profits appeared on the balance sheet of a company and the date of their reinvestment. Special regulations govern borrow ing abroad. Under Na t ional Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, private commercial and investment banks and the National Bank for Economic Development may be authorized to take up foreign currency credits abroad for domestic relending for purposes of f inanc ing work- ing capital. Safeguards against excessive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obligations that each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. The Central Bank assures the availability of cover for the repatriation of the loan at maturity. All other financial loans in foreign currency are effected under the general provisions of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131). Loans under this law also require prior central bank authorization, but the Cen- tral Bank does not under take to provide specific exchange cover for them. Loans under Resolution No. 63, as well as those under Law No. 4131, must have a m in imum term of eight years but no max imum term is set. Foreign loans are subject to mandatory deposit at the Central Bank. In the case of private enterprises, the deposit is applicable to 75 per cent of the loan proceeds converted into cruzeiros and it is released as follows: one third a f ter 60 days f rom the deposit date, another one third af ter 90 days, and the balance after 120 days; for public enterprises, the deposit is applicable to 100 per cent of the loan proceeds converted into cruzeiros and is released as follows: 20 per cent after 150 days from the deposit date, 40 per cent af ter 180 days, and the balance af ter 210 days. In addition to these manda tory deposit regulations, on June 23, t977 the Central Bank authorized voluntary deposits at the Central Bank by financial and nonfinan- cial institutions of the outstanding balances of their foreign loans with a provision that the operation could be reversed after 30 days. For as long as the deposit remains with the Central Bank, the Central Bank covers all costs on these loans, including the exchange cost. As part of the measures announced on December 7, 1979, these provisions were modified as follows: (1) existing voluntary deposits at the Central Bank in respect of non- financial loans (under Law No. 4131) were frozen for an indefinite period, except for funds required for related interest and amortization payments, for transformation of such loans into direct investment or, in certain special 98 cases, upon the approval of the Central Bank; and (2) a manda to ry wa i t ing period of 180 days was established for the withdrawal of deposits made in the Central Bank under Resolution No. 63; where the funds are for use in the rollover of loans to domestic enter- prises, the waiting period is 15 days. Under a program for the management of external debt, the National Monetary Council imposes quantita- tive limits on the amount of financial loans for which au thor iza t ion may be given by the Central Bank. Loans are authorized only if ma tu r i t ies con fo rm with m in imum requirements established f rom time to time by the Central Bank, which permits the total of loans ou ts tand- ing to rise only to the ex tent that the servicing com- m i tmen ts on Brazil's total external indebtedness do not depart f rom the guidelines set by the Na t ional Monetary Council. At the end of 1981 the Central Bank's m in i- mum acceptable ma tu r i ty was eight years. However, provided that the f u ll amount of the fore ign exchange rema ins comm i t ted to Brazil for the m in imum specified m a tu r i ty, loans to the final borrower in Brazil, as well as loans to banks under Resolution No. 63, may be made at terms shorter than the final ma tu r i ty of the debt abroad, and these funds may subsequently be re- lent to the same or a second borrower. Outward capital transfers not mentioned above require authorization by DECAM and FIRCE, which con- sider applications on their merits. Approved exchange t ransac t ions involving ou tward t rans fe rs of private cap- i tal are effected th rough authorized banks at the pre- vailing official market rate. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coin in Brazil. Gold m in ing is conducted under Law No. 4425 of October 8, 1964. The domestic negotiation of new ly mined gold is subject to a m in ing tax of 1 per cent, which may be offset against other tax liabilities if and when the gold is m anu f a c tu r ed. The Central Bank is empowered to buy and sell gold on the domestic ma rket at in terna t ional prices. In practicet purchases of gold in the domestic market are made at current domestic prices; the in te rna t ional price is considered as a price goal. Imports of gold are subject to the is- suance of an import certificate by CACEX; imports of na t ive gold and of gold in the form of powder are free of customs duty. Imports of rough gold fa ll w i th in the zero range of impo rt duties but are subject to the tax on financial transactions. Exports of gold are subject to approval by the Central Bank, which is always the a l te rna t ive buyer. Changes during 1981 January 1. A new import licensing system was intro- duced, under which importers must submit to CACEX annual import programs of a global na tu re as a basis for requesting import licenses. February 10. The Customs Policy Commission ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (CPA) was authorized to issue general resolutions reducing to zero the import tax rates on mach ine ry, equipment, and certain other commodities, in order to harmonize the treatment given to certain enterprises of recognized economic importance with the objectives of tariff policy. March 6. The tax on financial transac t ions was reduced from 25 per cent to 20 per cent for imports originating in member countries of LAIA. April 1. The M in is t ry of Finance re in troduced the system of tax credits for indus tr ial exports. The bene- fits were set at 15 per cent of the f.o.b. export value during 1981, 9 per cent du r ing 1982, and 3 per cent during the first half of 1983. April 29. The taxes on the export of coffee were abolished. April 30. Exports of a number of products to the Un i ted States, inc lud ing textiles, footwear, and leather- wares, were subject to a tax. The tax would be at the same rates and subject to the same phased schedule as the tax credits approved on April 1. June 17. The Central Bank specified the products subject to export taxes as orange juice, at a rate of 10 per cent, cornmeal, at a rate of 5 per cent, and hides, at a rate of 18 per cent. August 27. Brazil prohibited the export of gold, and under existing regulations the Central Bank began to buy and sell gold in the domestic market at in terna t ional prices. November 18. The M in is t ry of Finance decided that the planned reduction in the rate of the tax credits for industrial exports would occur in stages over 1982, to reach the level of 9 per cent by December 31, 1982. December 9. The National Council of Foreign Trade abolished quotas for exports of soybean products. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burma is the Burmese Kyat, which is pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 = SDR 1. Burma applies margins of 2 per cent in respect of spot exchange transactions, based on the fixed kyat-SDR rate. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar, quoted by the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, are determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 7.3238 and K 7.4702, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Belgian f ranc, the Italian lira, and the Netherlands guilder are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the New York market; buy ing and selling rates for the Hong Kong dollar, the Malaysian ringgit, and the Singapore dollar are deter- mined weekly on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur, and Singapore markets, respectively; and buying and selling prices for other cur- rencies are based on appropriate cross rates in local markets (e.g., Bombay, for the Indian rupee). There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board, through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, in accordance with instructions f rom the Ministry of Planning and Finance. A Foreign Exchange Control Committee headed by the Minister of Planning and Finance is in charge of the allocation of foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Burma has no bilateral payments agreements. Cer- ta in settlements with Bangladesh are channeled through a nonresident bank account at the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, and certain settlements with India are channeled through special rupee accounts in that coun- try. Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an External Account in Burma. Receipts must be collected in con- vertible currencies or to the debit of an External Account in Burma. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts may be kept with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank by international organiza- tions, diplomatic personnel, or other foreign residents, subject to approval by the Exchange Control Board. Such accounts are normally held in deutsche mark, Indian rupees, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. They may be credited and debited freely, but no interest is 100 payable on them. Foreign nationals temporarily resi- dent in Burma are entitled to hold foreign exchange utilization cards for use in diplomatic shops. Nonresi- dents may be authorized to hold external accounts in kya ts; all debits and credits to such accounts require prior authorization. Burmese nationals working abroad under permission from the Government may open accounts in U.S. dollars with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, Rangoon, out of their savings; with exchange control approval, withdrawals f rom such accounts can be used for payment of personal imports and petty expenses. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Afr ica are prohibited. Also prohibited are imports of a few commodities f rom any source —principally opium and other narcotics, mon- keys, playing cards, and gold and silver bu l l ion. An import program is prepared annua l ly as part of the foreign exchange budget drawn up by the M in is try of Planning and Finance. All imports are made by, or in the name of, the Myanma Export-Import Corporation (ME IC ). The MEIC imports goods for the use of the p r iva te sector, whose requirements are estimated by the Central Trade Council. In general, gove rnment agencies and departments import goods for their own use, includ- ing imports under loan and aid agreements, in the name of the MEIC. Most imports are purchased on an f.o.b. basis, and shipments are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation whenever possible. All payments for imports are made through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank. State enter- prises obtain fore ign exchange directly from the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank w i th in the approved for- eign exchange budget on endorsement by the respective ministries. Foreign exchange allocations can be trans- ferred by a ministry f rom one enterprise to another; t rans fe rs among ministries requ ire cabinet approval. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to licensing. In general, payments for items connected with foreign trade are allowed automatically, and payments for most other purposes, including transfers of profits, interest, and dividends, are considered on a case-by-case basis. Payments for membership fees to educational or tech- nical institutions abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are, as a rule, allowed freely. Family remittances are permitted only for for- eign technicians employed under contract by the Gov- ernmen t, the limit being one half of the net salary if the w i fe is living abroad, and one third of the net salary if the w i fe is living in Burma. Remittances of insurance payments are considered on a case-by-case basis. The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution remittance of pension payments to retired government employees who served the Government as Burmese nationals but took up foreign citizenship before depar- ture from Burma is not permitted. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by residents have been suspended. However, residents who have been granted an official permit to travel abroad for any other purpose may take out free ly the equivalent of K 100 in the currency of the coun t ry of destination or, if that currency is not available, in U.S. dollar notes. Travel for medical reasons is authorized on a case-by- case basis. Travel for educational purposes is authorized only in connection w i th state scholarships. Otherwise, Burmese nationals are not allowed to travel abroad except on official missions or for employment abroad. On leaving, nonresident travelers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert the rema in ing balance of the kyats obtained by con- version of fore ign currency. The export of Burmese currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. There is also a list of prohibited exports comprising iron and steel, brass, copper, and a lum inum and scrap thereof, foreign manu fac tu res, and commodities of domestic origin which need to be conserved for domestic require- ments. Exports are generally effected by the MEIC, although timber, rubber, ju te, fish and fish products, coffee, hides and skins, minerals, and petroleum and petroleum products may be exported directly by the respective state economic enterprises. Rice is exported by the Agriculture and Farm Produce Trade Corpora- tion in the name of the MEIC. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities and surrendered to the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank within six months from the date of shipment. Certain exports are subsidized through the Export Price Equalization Fund Account. When exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c.i.f. basis are usually shipped by the Burma Five Star Shipping Cor- poration or on vessels chartered or nominated by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in, subject to declaration, any amount in foreign currency; foreign nationals who intend to stay for more than six months must sur- BURMA render all foreign exchange in their possession unless special permission is given to the contrary. The import of Burmese currency is prohibited. Burmese nationals working abroad under permission from the Government are required to repatriate at least 10 per cent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange. Capital There is no foreign inves tment code as such; in prin- ciple, investment proposals are considered by an Invest- ment Committee to ascertain whether the proposed enterprise will utilize domestic raw materials, increase domestic employment, conserve foreign exchange, and generally conform to the economic plans of the Gov- ernment. However, permission has not been granted for any foreign private investment in Burma since 1963. All outward transfers of capital require prior approval. Residents are not permitted to remit funds abroad for investment. The repatriation of personal assets and the mak ing of fam i ly remittances have been suspended, with minor exceptions, for foreign nationals employed in the private sector; those employed in the public sec- tor may remit their personal savings when leaving the service. When the t rans fer abroad of payments in favor of Nonresidents is not permitted, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to external accounts in kya ts. All debits and credits to these accounts require pr ior permission. The import, export, and t rans fer of securities involving nonresident interests require indi- vidual licenses. Gold Residents may hold and t rade in gold jewelry, gold coin, and unworked gold in Burma. Licenses for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Burma subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The export of personal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repatriated. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to the customs when it was brought into Burma. Changes during 1981 June 12. Authorization was granted for Burmese nationals working abroad under permission f rom the Government to open accounts in U.S. dollars with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, Rangoon, out of their savings; with exchange control approval, withdrawals from such accounts could be used for payment of per- sonal imports and petty expenses. 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burundi is the Burundi Franc, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at FBu 90.00 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1981 were FBu 89.55 and FBu 90.45, respectively, per US$1. The Bank of the Republic of Bu rundi (the central b ank) quotes buying and selling rates for the Belgian f ranc based on its fixed rates for the U.S. dol- lar and the official market rates for the U.S. dollar in Brussels. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, w i th quotations based on either the quoted rates for the Belgian f r anc and the official market rates in Brussels for the cur- rencies concerned or, for the Kenya shilling, the Uganda shilling, and the zai're, on their official values in terms of SDKs. For the Tanzania shilling the rate quoted is based on the Bank of Tanzania's rate for the U.S. dol- lar. The Rwanda f ranc is also officially quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi at the rate of FBu 96.94 per RF 100, the official buying and selling rates being FBu 96.45 and FBu 97.43, respectively, per RF 100. Authorized banks must carry out per- mitted exchange transactions at the buying and selling rates established by the Bank of the Republic for cur- rencies quoted by that Bank. A charge of 2 per mill is collected on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and for- eign trade is vested in the Bank of the Republic of Burundi; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to three authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements relating to trade in goods or invisibles between Burund i, Rwanda, and Zaire are governed by the Trade and Customs Cooperation Agreement of September 10, 1978 and the Monetary Agreement of March 13, 1981. Such settlements are effected through convertible currency accounts ma in ta ined with the central bank of each signatory country.2 With these exceptions, outgoing payments may be made and receipts may be obtained in any currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in Burundi Francs may be maintained, subject to the approval of the Bank of the 1 Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and zai'res. 2 Transactions eligible for settlement through these accounts are specified in the attachment to the circular to authorized banks con- cerning implementation of the Monetary Agreement concluded by the governors of the central banks of the Economic Community of the Great Lake Countries on January 8, 1982. 102 Republic, by (1) physical persons of foreign nation- ality, such as diplomats, who are temporarily estab- lished in Burundi and are not considered as residents, and (2) jur id ical persons of foreign nationality with special status, such as foreign embassies and interna- tional organizations. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic, and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Bu rundi f rancs for any nor- mal current payments in Burundi and for conversion into foreign exchange (except bankno te s ). All other debits and credits require the prior approval of the Bank of the Republic. These accounts do not bear interest and must not be overdrawn. Certain nonresidents may ma in ta in Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies w i th an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Bank of the Republic and is restricted to (1) physical persons of foreign na t iona l i ty who are resident abroad and (2) jur id ical persons having branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic that is received f rom abroad. They may be debited freely for ( 1) conversion into Bu rundi francs for any payments in Bu rundi and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Bu rundi francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped f rom South Africa are prohibited. All imports require licenses, except trade samples without commercial value, lug- gage and personal effects of travelers, g i f ts, supplies for diplomatic missions and agencies of the United Nations, and merchandise not intended for sale whose declared consumer value c. & f. Bu jumbu ra is FBu 50,000 or less. Importers have been instructed not to order abroad certain goods of which domestic stocks are ade- quate or that are produced locally. Applications for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic through an authorized bank. The approval of such an application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. Provided that all applicable regula- tions have been duly observed, authorized banks are allowed to validate licenses with a value not exceeding FBu 500,000 f.o.b. for import transactions involving surface transportation by authorized importers; appli- cations for amoun ts in excess of FBu 500,000 require the approval of the Bank of the Republic. A license is valid for 12 months starting on the first day of the month following its validation. An adm in is t ra t ive tax amounting to 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution goods is collected at the time of validation of the license. All goods imported into Burundi must be insured by the approved Burundi insurer (SOCABU ), and premiums must be paid in Burundi francs. All consignments of imports exceeding FBu 500,000 in value are subject to preshipment inspection with regard to quality, quantity, packing, and price comparison by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva acting for the Burundi authorities. In principle, foreign exchange is made available at the time of shipment of the goods. For goods under global licenses, foreign exchange is not made available until af ter customs clearance. All imports are subject to a statistical tax of 3 per cent ad valorem, in addi- tion to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Ship- ping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Bu rundi francs with SOCABU. Upon pay- ment of taxes, transfers of earnings of foreign nationals are freely permitted at the un i fo rm rate of 60 per cent of net annual income. Private joint-stock companies may freely and immediately transfer a portion of the return on foreign capital and of the share allocated to foreign directors not exceeding 50 per cent of the profits for the budget year, net of corporation tax. The balance of the profits may be transferred subse- quently: 25 per cent after two years and the final 25 per cent af ter five years. Profits awaiting remit- tance are to be deposited in the Caisse de Mobilisation et de Financement (CAMOF I ), and interest earned on such deposits is eligible for t rans fe r. However, enter- prises that have obtained approved status under the Investment Code may obtain a guarantee of fu ll trans- ferability of net declared profits. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are autho- rized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unrem i t ted savings or the sale proceeds of their personal effects. Transfer of income from rental properties to nonresident owners is permitted up to 50 per cent of net rental income (a f ter payment of taxes and deduction of 20 per cent for maintenance expenses); the remainder, plus any accrued interest, may be transferred three years later, provided that the funds have been held on deposit with a domestic finan- cial institution. Resident owners of foreign nationality may remit the same proportion of such income. Resi- dents of Bu rundi nationality may apply for exchange needed for foreign travel. There is no fixed limit on the amount that may be allocated, which depends on the na ture of the travel. All travelers may take out up to FBu 2,000 in Bu rundi banknotes. In addition, resi- dents may freely purchase foreign travel tickets, up to reasonable amounts, against payment in Burundi francs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports require licenses, with the exception of trade BURUNDI samples without commercial value, luggage and per- sonal effects of travelers, and merchandise not intended for sale and valued at FBu 100,000 or less. Licenses must be presented for certification by the Bank of the Republic through an authorized bank. Declarations are valid for six months, but extensions may be granted by the Bank of the Republic. Payments must be col- lected within 90 days of the date of export declaration at the customs. All exchange proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days of their collection. Exports of arabica and robusta coffee are the monopoly of the Burundi Coffee Company. Virtually all exports, including coffee, are subject to export taxes and a statistical tax. Exports of manufactured goods may receive a refund of duties paid, provided that they incorporate raw materials on which import duty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and up to FBu 2,000 in Bu rundi banknotes. Capital The Investment Code of August 25, 1967 provides fiscal and other benefits for domestic and foreign pri- vate investors. A new Investment Law, adopted on April 4, 1979, revised some of the investment proce- dures. Under the Investment Code new investments that fulfill specified conditions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import duties and f rom taxes on income from the investment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, during a period of 5 years, for other merchandise needed for the manu fac tu r ing operation or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may likewise be reduced or suspended. Enterprises granted priority status may obtain some protection against foreign competition, priority in the allocation of government contracts, and a guarantee from the Bank of the Republic for the f ree transfer of profits and dividends and the repatriation of the invested capital. In addition to these privileges, com- panies undertaking investments that are considered to be of prime importance to Burundi's economic development may be granted, under a separate conven- tion, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for 15 years. An investment com- mission under the Ministry of Planning is charged with examining requests for priority status and granting the necessary authorization. In addition, under the new law, Burundi guarantees each foreign investor freedom of settlement; foreign investors are also assured an allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of raw 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI materials and products abroad as well as for the repay- ment of loans taken out under the investment agree- ment. Capital transfers by residents require individual authorization, as does foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted. The guaran- tee is furnished for foreign exchange imported by resi- dent enterprises for working capital purposes, in any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic, and is valid for a one-year period, which is renewable. The guarantee provides for the transfer of the original amount surrendered at the official rate ruling on the day of transfer. Under the new law, Burundi also guarantees the repatriation of invested capital in the event of sale or shutdown of the business. Gold Dealings in gold coin must be conducted through the Bank of the Republic, since all p r iva te dealing in gold is prohibited. The Bank of the Republic pur- chases unrefined gold f rom domestic producers at FBu 500 a gram. A f t er refining abroad, this gold is included in the official mone tary reserves. Imports and exports of gold may be made only by the Bank of the Republic, w i th the exception that private firms may be licensed to import gold for dental use. Changes during 1981 March 13. A new monetary arrangement with Zaire and Rwanda was signed, succeeding the 1978 agreement. 104 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cameroon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French f ranc, the in terven t ion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange trans- actions in French f rancs between the BEAC and com- mercial banks take place at the ra te of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other fore ign cur- rencies are also off ic ia l ly posted, w i th quotations based on the fixed rate for the French f r a nc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to coun tr ies that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. With the exception of those re la t ing to gold, Cam- eroon's exchange control measures generally do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Terr i tor ies) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made f ree ly, but all financial t rans fe rs in excess of CFAF 500,000 to countries of the French Franc Area must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Economic Controls and External Finance in the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import licenses are issued by the M in is try of Economy and P lann ing, and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Since Cameroon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through corre- spondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French f rancs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements between Cameroon and South Afr ica are prohibited. 1The CFA f r anc c i rcu la t ing in Cameroon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Gabon. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pe r ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when mailed to the National Directorate of the BEAC in Yaounde by the fore ign correspondents of authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom South A f r i ca are proh ib i ted. The import f rom all sources of certain "controlled" goods requires a special au thor iza t ion (autorisation speciale d'importation), in addition to an import license. All other imports, irrespective of origin, are subject to licensing when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more, but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Settlements for imports effected under an import license benefit f rom the authorization of un in te r rup ted t rans fer given to the authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined abov e ), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely, subject to declaration, when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange rema in ing after return to Cameroon must be sur- rendered. For business travel, the corresponding allo- cation is the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 450,000 a t r ip. In practice, add i t ional allocations may be allowed. The transfer of rent f rom real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited, in principle, to 50 per cent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are normally limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. Depending on fam i ly status, the trans- fer of 20 per cent or 50 per cent of the sa lary of a foreigner working in Cameroon is permitted upon pre- 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON sentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within one month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Cameroon temporarily, payments of insur- ance premiums to foreign countries are not permitted if the same type of insurance is available in Cameroon. Resident and nonresident travelers to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BE AC banknotes. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may, subject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Exports to all coun- tries are subject to submission of domiciliation docu- ments signed by the Ministry of Finance. Proceeds from exports to all countries must be collected within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract, and proceeds received in currencies, other than those of France or an Operations Account country, must be surrendered within a month after collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from fo re ign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of fore ign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange con- trol approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Em ig ran ts to countries outside the French Franc Area may trans- fer abroad their full savings, provided that they have met their tax obligations. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- 106 tising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the excep- tion of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Cameroon, the measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All foreign securities and titles embodying claims on nonresidents must be deposited with an authorized in termed iary and be classified as foreign, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments requires only a report ex post to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Cameroon3 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvest- ment of undistributed profits; the M in is ter has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Cameroon requires only reporting to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Cameroonian investments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to h im. Exempt from authorization, however, and subject only to an ex post report, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cameroonian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Cameroon has already been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose 2 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or ind irec t ly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon. 3 Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution registered office is abroad, requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to h im. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from this authorization, and require only a report: ( 1) loans directly connected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take par t; and (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by physical and ju r id i c al persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from prior authorization, and require only a report: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take par t; and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the ma tur i ty does not exceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 per cent a year. An Investment Code promulgated in 1960 and revised in April 1964 established four categories of fiscal and other benefits that may be granted to both foreign and domestic firms under tak ing approved new industrial or agricultural projects in Cameroon. The scope and duration of the benefits vary depending on the size of the investment, the degree to which it helps implement the economic and social development plan, and its importance to national economic growth. Cate- gory A permits mainly duty-free entry of capital goods and raw materials required for manu fac tu r ing and processing. Under Category B, firms may be entitled to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for five years from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and from various other taxes and fees. Under CAMEROON Category C, large companies may conclude an "estab- lishment agreement" with the Government, under which special conditions for the operations of the company are agreed and the nature and extent of tax concessions are determined. An "establishment agreement" is nor- mally valid for 25 years and defines the legal, economic, and financial guarantees granted to the company, includ- ing the assurance of stable conditions for financial t rans fe rs and marke t ing of goods. Category D enables firms mak ing investments of p a r t i cu l ar s ign if icance to the national economy to enjoy the benefits of Cate- gory C, as well as a guaran tee of s tab i l i ty of taxa t ion for up to 25 years. Ordinance No. 73 /27 of August 30, 1973 provided that public entities should hold at least one third of the share capital of each bank ing ins t i tu t ion and that the headquar ters of each bank ing institution should be in Cameroon. This ordinance also required banks with foreign ma jor i ty participation to submit to the mone tary authorities in fo rma t ion on all their cur- rent transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the s t ruc tu re of their equ i ty holdings. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is no rma l ly given only to indus- trial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic indus tr ial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt f rom this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Canada is the Canad ian Dollar. The authorities of Canada do not ma in ta in ma rg ins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined on the basis of demand and supp ly conditions in the exchange marke t; however, the au thor i t ies in te rvene f rom time to time to ma in ta in orderly conditions in that market. The principal in terven t ion currency is the U.S. dollar. The closing in te rbank market rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1981 was Can$1.1855 per US$1. Forward exchange rates are s im i lar ly deter- mined in the market and it is not the practice of the authorities to intervene. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On March 25, 1952 Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required only for certain drugs; a few agr icu l tural items; certain textile p roduc ts, cloth- ing, and foo twear; certain endangered species of f a u na and flora; na tu ral gas; and material and equ ipment for the production or use of atomic energy. For some agri- cu l tu ral items, such as certain dairy products, licenses are generally not being issued. Commercial imports of certain commodities from any source are t igh t ly con- trolled or prohibited; the main products affected are oleomargarine and used automobiles. Imports of non- leather, nonrubber footwear are subject to a global quota. Exports and Export Proceeds The su r render of the proceeds f rom exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For supply reasons, the export of a few commodities to all destinations is under export control. These include crude petroleum, certain petroleum products, and nat- ural gas, most of which are sold to the United States. For security reasons, there is export control on strategic goods to all destinations except the United States. All exports to Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Repub- lic and East Be r l in, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam are subject to control, a l though certain goods of Canad ian origin may be exported to these destinations under the au tho r i ty of a general expo rt permit. In add i t ion, certain goods of a commercial na tu re are subject to control for supp ly and d is t r ibu t ion purposes (e.g., specialty steel and beef to the Un i ted States and blood products to all countries). 108 Small and medium-sized exporters are eligible for certain financial facilities operated by the Export Devel- opment Corporation (EDC ), in c lud ing po l i t ical r isk insurance. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requ i remen ts are imposed on exchange paymen ts for, or exchange receipts f r om, invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non res i- dents. Apa rt f rom specific res tr ic t ions in the f i n a n c i a l, broadcasting, and u r a n i um sectors, inwa rd direct inves t- ment is governed by the Foreign Inves tment Rev iew Act. This stipulates that the acquisition of con t rol over a Canad ian business enterprise by persons o th er t h an Canadians, or the establishment of a new bu s ine ss by such persons not previously established in C an ad a, or whose proposed new business is un r e l a t ed to t h e ir ex is t ing business in Canada, will be a l lowed if it is assessed t h at such investments are of s i g n i f i c a nt b e n e f it to Canada. A Foreign Inves tment Rev iew Agency is charged with the review of proposed takeovers and the screen ing of the establishment of new businesses. The re are no controls over ou tward direct inves tmen t, nor over inward or ou twa rd po r t fo l io inves tmen t. The domestic assets of a foreign-owned bank ope ra t ing in Canada must not exceed 20 times its au tho r ized cap i ta l; the total domestic assets of all such banks must not exceed 8 per cent of the total domestic assets of all banks opera t ing in Canada. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. However, exports of gold and all other produc ts con ta in ing gold to coun- tries named in the Area Control List require an export pe rm it f rom the Minister of Indu s t ry, Trade, and Com- merce under the au tho r i ty of the Export and Impo rt Perm i ts Act. Gold of U.S. origin requ i res a pe rm it when re-exported to all countries except the Un i ted States. Commercial imports of articles con t a in ing m inor quan- t i t ies of gold, such as watches, are unres tr ic ted and f ree of license. Legal tender gold coins w i th a face va lue of Can$100 have been issued a n n u a l ly since 1976, and Can$50 "bullion" coins, con ta in ing 1 ounce of gold, have also been issued, beginning in 1979. Changes during 1981 January 1. In the first of several ins tances d u r i ng the year, the export tax on ce r ta in types of crude oil and hydrocarbon equ iva len ts (name ly, L loydm ins ter and Wa inwr igh t-V ick ing-K inse la b lend s) was changed f rom Can$16.35 to Can$23.24 a ba r re l; by August 1981 it had been reduced to Can$17.30. (The export charge ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA on other heavy crude was Can$ l -2 a barrel higher throughout the period.) January 5. As a means of m a t ch ing the concessional financing by other governments, a "credit mixte" scheme was in troduced under which a s tanda rd loan offered by the EDC at the ma rket ra te is supp lemen ted by a low- interest loan f rom the Government in cases where it is clear that other countries are resorting to low-interest charges for export promotion purposes. April 28. A five-year g r a in agreement was nego t ia ted with the U.S.S.R., und er w h i ch Canada agreed to sell to the U.S.S.R. 5 m i l l ion tons of gra in annua l ly (about 3.75 m i l l ion tons of wheat and about 1.25 million tons of ba r ley ). July 1. Export financing fac i l i t ies a imed at assisting sma ll and med ium-s ized expor ters were in t roduced. The new facilities, to be administered by the EDC, included ( 1) purchases by the EDC of promissory notes issued to exporters by foreign buyers, (2) political risk insu r- ance for exporters who cannot ob ta in credit in fo rm a t ion on foreign buyers, ( 3) insurance coverage for possible losses by commercial banks that grant financial accom- modation for export bills receivables issued by the EDC. November 25. An import quota on leather foo twear was abolished, while an import quo ta was imposed on nonleather, nonrubber footwear. 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position on December 31, 2981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde Escudo, which is pegged to a weighted basket of cur- rencies representing nine important trading partners. The exchange rate of the Cape Verde escudo in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quo ta t ions for the U.S. dollar and the other currencies included in the basket. On Decem- ber 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were C.V. Esc 50.56 and C.V. Esc 51.17, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the con- trol of the Directorate of Foreign Relations and Exchange Control (DRECC ), which is a department of the central bank, the Bank of Cape Verde. All imports, exports, and re-exports are subject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Foreign exchange transactions, inc lud ing the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds, are effected through the central bank. Prescription of Currency The central bank determines the currency in which export proceeds should be repatriated. Cape Verde has bilateral payments agreements with Angola, Guinea- Bissau, and Sao Tome and Principe. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open demand deposit accounts in local currency. These accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from the sale or receipts of convert- ible currencies and may be debited for payment of any obligations in Cape Verde. Outward transfers f rom such accounts may be made freely. Embassies and foreign officials of embassies are required to open special accounts in foreign currency and in local cur- rency. Imports and Import Payments All% imports are subject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Licenses, which are issued by the General Directorate of Com- merce in the Ministry of Economic Coordination, require the visa of the central bank and are generally valid for 180 days, but are renewable. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license is approved by the central bank. Licenses are granted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other development-related equipment. Imports of non- essentials are restricted. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior authoriza- tion. Transfers for tourism are limited to a maximum 110 of C.V. Esc 6,000 a person a year (C.V. Esc 3,000 for children under 15 yea r s ). When traveling accompanied by his fam i ly, a resident of Cape Verde may take out in foreign currency the equivalent of C.V. Esc 6,000 plus C.V. Esc 4,000 for each fam i ly member under 15, but the total transfer for each f am i ly may not exceed the equivalent of C.V. Esc 20,000. Cape Verdean nationals going on tourist trips abroad are required to buy round-trip tickets in advance and have to make a deposit equivalent to a one-way t icket to the country of destination. This deposit is refunded upon return to Cape Verde. Cape Verdean na t iona ls s tudy ing abroad are allowed up to a max imum of C.V. Esc 6,000 on leaving the country, and students who do not hold scholarships are, in addition, entitled to C.V. Esc 5,000 a mon th. The equivalent of C.V. Esc 20,000 is autho- rized for each business tr ip and C.V. Esc 15,000 a trip for medical t rea tmen t; these la t ter amounts may be increased upon presentation of evidence of need. Transfers by foreign technical assistance personnel working in Cape Verde are authorized w i th in the limits specified in the individual contracts. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. The export of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Foreign travelers may br ing in any amount of foreign currency but may re-export only the amount of cur- rency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing, except for trans- actions not exceeding C.V. Esc 2,500. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months from the date of issuance of the license, but this period may be extended. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. The import of Cape Verdean banknotes is prohibited. Capital Any private capital transaction must be approved in advance by the DRECC, but legally imported capital may be re-exported without limitation. The export of resident-owned capital is not normally permitted. Gold Imports, exports, or re-exports of gold either in coin or bars require prior licensing by the monetary author- ities. Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Central African Republic is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French f ranc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1, free of commission. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Central A f r ican Republic do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control All draft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the State require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority to the Director of the Budget. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic, and inward and outward direct invest- ment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some of his approval authority to the BEAC,2 to the authorized banks, and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are issued by the BEAC. 1The CFA franc circulating in the Central African Republic is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, Congo, and Gabon. 2 The authority delegated to the BEAC relates to (1) the control over the external position of the banks, (2) the granting of excep- tional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and (3) the control over the repatriation of net export proceeds. Prescription of Currency Since the Central A f r ican Republic is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cur- rency of any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settle- ments w i th all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French f rancs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations per ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Francs. BEAC bankno tes received by the foreign correspon- dents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Afr ica are suspended. The import from all countries of a few commodities that are also produced domestically is prohibited. The import of certain foods tu f fs is not authorized unless local production of these commodities is inadequa te. Imports of certain goods, when not. originating in a member coun try of the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC), may be made only in given ratios to purchases of the local product. The import of firearms is prohibited irrespective of origin. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely and without an import license. All other imports from EC countries (the original member states) also are free f rom quan t i ta t ive restrictions. Imports f rom all countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing w i th in the framework of an annual import program. All import transactions relating to fore ign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping docu- ments are submitted to the authorized bank. There has been some accrual of arrears on external payments owing to the imposition of statutory ceilings on central bank credit to the Government and an ensuing shortage of domestic currency with which to purchase foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted free ly; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- 111 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 may be taken out in foreign banknotes. Any exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 that remains after return to the Central Afr ican Republic must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to certain listed countries; the allocation for business travel to any other foreign country is CFAF 15,000 a day, up to CFAF 150,000 a trip; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 5,000 may be taken out in for- eign banknotes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Central African Republic is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro- vided that the t ran s fer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency and other foreign means of payment up to the amount declared by them on entry; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BEAC banknotes into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are suspended. All exports of cotton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanuts, palm oil, meat, and diamonds require a license. All other exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All exports to countries outside this area require licenses, which are issued freely. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated within one month from the due date; the latter must not be later than 90 days af ter the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export trans- actions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due 112 from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected w i th in a mon th of the due date and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within a month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may b r ing in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bankno tes and coin (except gold co in) of coun- tries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central African Republic and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are f ree of exchange control; capital t rans fe rs to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrowing by the Government or its public and semipublic enterprises, as well as all fore ign borrowing with a government guaran tee, requires the prior approval of the Director of the Budget. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be app l icab le) are ma in ta ined over borrowing and lend ing abroad, over inward and ou twa rd direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in the Central Afr ican Repub l ic; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in the Central A f r ican Republic, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 requ ire the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undis- tributed profits; the fu ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct inves tment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central African Repub l ic4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of und is tr ibu ted profits; the Minister has a period of two mon ths f rom receipt of the declara- tion du r ing which he may request postponement. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central African Republic must also be declared to the 3 Including those made through fore ign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central A f r ican Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central Afr ican Republic. 4 Including those made by companies in the Central A f r ican Republic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in the Central African Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in the Central A f r ican Republic. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Central A f r ican Republic investments abroad or fore ign investments in the Central A f r ican Republic, must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of for- eign securities in the Central A f r ican Republic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale in the Central A f r ican Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or jur id ical persons, whether public or private,, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central A f r ican Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central A f r ican Republic of ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central Afr ican Repub- lic and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which those persons or firms take pa r t; ( 3) loans con- tracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the opera- tion, unless the total ou ts tand ing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior autho- rization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC granted by registered banks and (2) other loans when the total amount ou ts tand ing of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The mak ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the opera- tion, except when the amount of the loan gran ted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of Decem- ber 14, 1965, indus tr ia l, tourist, agricultural, and m in ing enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Central A f r i c an Republic are granted, under certain conditions, a reduction in duties and taxes on the import of specified equipment; in addition, certain enterprises receive exemption f rom direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of prefer- ential treatment in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expansion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Requests for approval for p re fe ren t ial trea tment must be submitted to the Minister of Indus try, who is the Cha irman of the Investment Commission which considers the application. If a positive decision has been given by the Commission, the proposed au thor iza t ion is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential trea tmen ts A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential trea tment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the former Equatorial Customs Union upon the recom- mendation of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central A f r ican Republic. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Exempt f rom prior authorization are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Trea- sury and (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles con ta in ing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declara- tion. Certain companies have been officially appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chad is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange trans- actions in French francs between the BEAC and com- mercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign cur- rencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Office of the Minister of Economy and Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and outward direct investment; it also issues import and export authorizations for gold. Exchange control is also administered by the Minister of Economy and Finance, who has delegated his approval authority in part to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Prescription of Currency Since Chad is an Operations Account country, settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that main ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. 1The CFA f ranc circulating in Chad is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central African Republic, Congo, and Gabon. 114 Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank- notes may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs maintained by the foreign correspondent of an authorized bank, provided that the notes are mailed to the BEAC agency in Chad by the correspondent bank concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar f rom all sources require licenses. All other imports f rom coun tr ies in the French Franc Area and f rom EC countries' (the original member s ta tes), other than France, may be made freely. All imports f rom non-EC countries out- side the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by the Minister of Economy and Finance on the basis of proposals drawn up by the Committee on Imports. The import program contains global quotas for imports f rom non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area and a special quota for imports of cotton textiles f rom countries w i th abnormal competitive advantages. In addition, the program contains global quotas for imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar f rom EC countries, countries in the French Franc Area, as well as other countries. Specified imports f rom neighboring countries not belonging to the French Franc Area ( the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Nigeria, and Sudan) up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year in each direction for a single importer may be made through compensation transactions. All import transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Forward cover for imports f rom foreign countries is permitted only for specified com- modities and requires the prior approval of the Office of the Minister of Economy and Finance. There has been some accumulation of arrears on external pay- ments owing to the imposition of s ta tu tory ceilings on central bank credit to the Government and an ensuing shortage of domestic currency w i th which to purchase foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are perm i t ted freely when the basic trade transac t ion has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when bona fide. Some current payments, how- ever, may be subject to delay. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may ob ta in an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year. For pilgrimage to Mecca, an add i t ional allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 may be g ran ted. For busi- ness travel to foreign coun tr ies, there is a da i ly alloca- tion of the equivalent of CFAF 60,000, with a maximum allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 500,000 a person a tr ip; the Office of the Min- ister of Economy and Finance may approve additional amounts. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a m ax imum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank- notes. Travelers to other coun tr ies may take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, in addition to amounts remitted f rom fore ign bank accounts. If no declaration has been made, they may take out up to the equivalent of CFAF 150,000, in addition to a max imum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. All exports to non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses. Specified exports to the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Nigeria, and Sudan may be made through compensation transactions. Exports of cotton are the monopoly of the Societe Cotonniere du Tchad (COTONTCHAD). Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Opera- tions Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days af ter the arrival of the commodities at their destina- tion. The proceeds must be collected, and be sur- rendered if received in a foreign currency, within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amoun ts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom fore ign assets, must be collected and, if received in foreign CHAD currency, be surrendered w i th in two mon ths of the due date. Resident and nonres ident travelers may bring in any amount of bankno tes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold co in) and other for- eign means of payment. Foreign bankno tes and coin in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 brought in by residents must be exchanged for CFA francs w i th in eight days of their re tu rn. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Opera t ions Account countries are free of exchange con tro l; capital trans- fers to all other countries requ ire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. All fore ign securi- ties, fore ign currency, and titles embody ing claims on fore ign countries or nonresidents that are held in Chad by residents or nonresidents must be deposited w i th authorized banks in Chad. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ iremen ts that may be applicable or suspended inso- far as they would be con t ra ry to the exchange control regulations) are ma in ta ined over borrow ing and lend- ing abroad, over inward and ou twa rd direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or o f f e r i ng for sale of foreign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to paymen ts or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of fore ign securities in Chad, the mea- sures do not apply to France (as def ined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments a b r o a d2 requ i re the prior approval of the M in is ter of Economy and Finance, irrespective of the method of financing; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such inves tmen ts also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in C h a d3 requ ire the pr ior approval of the Minister of Economy and F inance unless they take the form of a mixed-economy enterprise. The fu ll or par t ial liquidation of direct inves tmen ts in Chad must also be declared to the M in is ter. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whe ther these are Chadian investments abroad or fore ign investments in Chad, must be reported to the M in is ter w i th in 20 days of each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of fo r- eign securities in Chad requires prior au thor iza t ion by 2 Including those made through fo re ign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Chad. 3 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Chad that are d irec t ly or indirectly under fore ign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Chad of foreign companies. 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offer ing for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of jur id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The follow- ing are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transac- tions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and ( 3) loans other than those men- tioned above, when the total amount outstanding of the loan does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, with an interest rate not higher than 7 per cent and a ma tur i ty of two years or less. The con- tracting of loans referred to under ( 3) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister w i th in 30 days of the opera- tion. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of jur id ical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: ( 1) loans directly connected with the rendering of ser- vices abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take par t; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 5 million for any one lender. The making of loans referred to under (2) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the M in is ter w i th in 30 days of the operation. Commercial banks must m a in t a in in Chad a specified m in imum proportion of their assets. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemp- tion f rom direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of p re fe ren t ial treat- ment, in accordance with which cer ta in fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in speci- fied new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Requests for p re fe ren t ial t rea tment must be submitted to the Minister of Economy and Finance, who, a f ter exam in ing the documents, t ransm i ts them to the Investment Commission. A f t er an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is sub- mitted to the Council of M in is ters. Gold Chad has issued gold coins w i th face values of CFAF 1,000, 3,000, 5,000, 10,000, and 20,000, which are legal tender. Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold unwo rked gold un less specifically authorized. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or ref ined, requ ire prior au tho r iza t ion by the Office of the M in is ter of Economy and Finance and by the Directorate of Energy, Mines, and Geology as well as the visa of the Foreign Trade Office. Exempt f rom this requ irement are ( 1) impor ts and exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry au thor i t ies and (2) imports and exports of m anu f a c tu r ed articles containing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated a r t ic le s ). Exports of unworked gold and of raw diamonds (as well as domestic purchases and sales of bo th) are the monopoly of the Off ice for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports ( B A V I E ), which is an approved private company. Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement^ The currency of Chile is the Chilean Peso. Since June 30, 1979 the exchange rate of the Chilean peso has been set by the Central Bank of Chile at Ch$39 per US$1. The Central Bank may apply an exchange d ifferen t ial of up to 0.5 per cent of the official rate on purchases and sales of exchange. On December 31, 1981 the Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Ch$38.805 and Ch$39.195, respec- tively, per US$1. The Banco del Estado, commercial banks, exchange houses, and other authorized entities may establish freely the ir exchange rates and commis- sions; the ir commissions are subject to a value-added tax of 20 per cent. Exchange rates for currencies other than the U.S. do l lar are not o f f ic ia l ly quo ted. Banks and authorized entities operate in such currencies w i th quotations based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in marke ts abroad. No taxes or subsidies are applied to purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Chile fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect from July 27, 1977. Administration of Control The Executive Committee of the Cen tral Bank is responsible for ca r ry ing out currency exchange policy. The Chilean Copper Commission is responsible for the supervision of copper exports and all imports of the copper indus try; this supervision has to be exercised in accordance with the general rules enacted by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argen t ina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colom- bia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts ma in ta ined with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central banks of each of the countries concerned, with- in the framework of the mu l t i la te ral clearing system of the Latin Amer ican Integration Association (LA IA ). Settlements with the Dominican Republic may be made through clearing accounts established under a reciprocal credit agreement. Settlements with other countries take place in specified convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Imports are subject to a paper fo rm a l i ty known as Informe de importation. The import report fo rm can be obtained f rom and processed through the interme- diary local commercial bank. Once the import report is issued, shipment can proceed but has to occur w i th in 180 days from the date of issue. (In the case of imports Hn connection w i th the 15.2 per cent devaluation to Ch$46 = US$1 on June 15, 1982, Chile announced that beginning June 16, 1982 the Chilean peso would be pegged to a basket of currencies at a level that would be depreciated on a daily basis at a mon th ly rate of 0.8 per cent during the 12-month period ending on June 15, 1983. valued up to US$10,000 f.o.b., the goods can be shipped and the payment arranged before the date of issue of the corresponding import report, but the leng th of time allowed for completing the operation is limited to 90 days .) The margin of tolerance in cost and volume of goods ac tua l ly shipped when compared w i th those indicated in the pro forma invoice is 10 per cent, with a max imum variation of US$10,000. Importers may purchase spot exchange as soon as their import applications have been approved and the shipping documents have been received. Imports on deferred payment terms (cobertura diferida), i.e., on credit terms exceeding 360 days, requ i re prior authori- zation of the credit terms by the Central Bank. The maximum permissible ma tu r i ty for import f inanc ing under short-term payment terms (cobertura corriente) is 90 days. V ir tua l ly all imports are subject to a regis- tration tax of up to 3 per cent of value, which is offset against the applicable import du ty. Import duties for most items are at a un i fo rm rate of 10 per cent of c.i.f. value. A value-added tax of 20 per cent is levied on the sum of the c.i.f. value and the import duty. Payments for Invisibles Central bank au tho r iza t ion is required only for those payments for invisibles that are in excess of the estab- lished limits, and for transactions for which no basic allocation has been set. The au thor iza t ion is provided upon presentation of appropriate documentation. Resi- dents may purchase up to US$10,000 every 30 days for "extraordinary remittances"; this amoun t, as a general rule, is not cumulative. The established limit for tourist travel (in addition to fa re s) is the equivalent of US$10,000 a trip for travel to all countries. Insurance activities within the coun try are reserved to Chilean companies or to authorized foreign companies. There are allowances of up to US$10,000 a mon th for study abroad and for medical purchases of a noncommercial character, subscriptions to magazines, books, and pen- sion payments. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities may be freely exported. All for- eign exchange proceeds from exports in excess of US$5,000 must be surrendered through commercial banks, which are required to advise immed ia te ly the Director of Operations of the Central Bank ( the Chilean Copper Commission in the case of copper). Commer- cial banks are authorized to purchase all foreign exchange proceeds spot f rom exporters. Receipts from exports of the large copper mines must be deposited in a special foreign currency account at the Central Bank. Most export proceeds subject to surrender require- ments must be repatriated w i th in 300 days f rom the date of shipment and surrendered within 10 days 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE thereafter, depending on the commodity being exported; for specified goods this period may be extended. How- ever, exporters are permitted to repurchase up to 10 per cent of export proceeds for travel expenses and certain other purposes, within a cumulative ceiling of US$100,000. Proceeds from Invisibles In general, foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered only when required by a legal provision. Such is the case for commissions, proceeds from insurance, and other benefits related to foreign trade. There are no similar rules concerning the pro- ceeds from royalties and copyright fees, family remit- tances, the surplus foreign exchange f rom travel alloca- tions, proceeds from insurance unrelated to trade, and other income earned abroad. Capital Capital inflows are generally free, but most outflows are restricted. All new foreign borrowing or refinanc- ing of existing credits by commercial banks requires prior approval by the Central Bank, with the exception of the tak ing up of lines of credit of up to one-year ma tur i ty with foreign correspondents and short-term loans for domestic relending up to a limit determined mainly by a bank's capital and reserves. Foreign capi- tal may enter Chile under one of three d ifferent arrange- ments, depending on the purpose and type of the investment, as follows: (1) Article 14 of Decree No. 471 of October 17, 1977 stipulates that capital brought into the country in the form of foreign exchange (aporte de capital) may be sold freely through authorized banks when the investor (individual or corporation, national or fore ign) has registered the transaction with the Central Bank. Capital can be repatriated a f ter three years, but if it originated in a foreign borrowing, it may be repatri- ated if it has remained in Chile for an average duration of at least 24 months.2 Repatriation normally is allowed only in accordance with the amortization schedule established at the time of registration. Accelerated payments or extensions of payment are subject to special authorization. Foreign borrowing with average maturities of less than five and a half years is subject to reserve require- ments, as follows: 15 per cent for average maturities of less than four years and 10 per cent for average maturities of more than four years but under five and a half years. (2) Article 15 of the same decree authorizes the Central Bank to make exemptions to the general rules enacted by it concerning the inflow and outflow of capital or credits. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of July 7, 1974 (amended by Decree-Law No. 1748 of March 18, 1977), the Foreign Investment Law, establishes a regime for 2 Use of capital for the purpose of repaying debts to foreign banks is not considered to imply repatriation within a shorter period of time. 118 long-term capital investment. Authorization to make a foreign exchange investment in Chile is granted by the Foreign Investment Committee through a fixed-term contract containing undertakings regarding the phasing of the investment program that will normally not exceed eight years for mining and three years for other projects. Investments of less than US$5 million may be approved by the Executive Secretary of the Com- mittee at the Central Bank, with a few exceptions. There are no limitations on profit remittances. Capital may be repatriated a f ter three years. Foreign investors can opt for a guaranteed 49.5 per cent a year total corporation income tax over a period of ten years, or may subject themselves to the tax system applicable to domestic corporations (currently 48.5 per cent). Any foreign credits involved mu st be on terms autho- rized by the Central Bank. Foreign capital that entered Chile prior to the promulgation of Decree-Law No. 600 and which did not opt to be subject to that law con- tinues to be subject to the regulations prevailing on the date of entry. Foreign investment in the oil sector is subject to authorization by the Empresa Nacional de Petroleo (ENAP). Gold Chile has issued three types of gold coin, which are not legal tender. Residents may freely hold and nego- tiate gold in any form in Chile. Imports and exports of gold are unrestricted, subject to compliance with the normal formalities for import and export transac- tions, including registration with the Central Bank. Changes during 1981 January 1. Under a schedule designed in 1979, import tariffs on automobiles were fixed as follows: automobiles over 850 cubic centimeters, 70 per cent; trucks with cargo capacity up to 1,675 kilograms, 60 per cent; trucks with cargo capacity of 1,675 kilo- grams or over, 30 per cent. January 1. Import du ty exemptions for food prod- ucts imported in the northern regions of Chile were discontinued. January 2. The requirement for an import registra- tion for imports exceeding US$10,000 f.o.b. was dis- continued and replaced by a simpler Informe de impor- tation. January 2. The maximum permissible ma tur i ty for import financing under the cobertura corriente system was set at 180 days. March 1. The maximum value of pr imary necessities importable duty free into Region XI and Chiloe was fixed at US$200,000. March 1. Import duty exemptions for goods enter- ing Easter Island were removed. March 25. Special duties on evaporated milk, condensed milk, and concentrated milk were eliminated, while such duties were lowered on powdered milk and low-fat milk. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 25. Chilean banks were permitted to con- tract lines of credit of up to one-year maturity with foreign banks without central bank authorization. April 29. Permission was granted for individuals to maintain demand deposits in foreign banks. August 18. The goods on the list of prohibited imports were all removed from this list. November 30. The maximum maturity for import financing under the cobertura corriente system was halved to 90 days, while the maximum maturity of export credit prior to export shipment was increased from 180 to 230 days. December 23. Commercial banks were permitted to contract short-term credits abroad for relending domes- tically, up to a limit determined mainly by a bank's capital and reserves. CHILE 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of China is the Renminbi and its unit is the yuan. The exchange rate of the renminbi is adjusted in accordance with movements in the value of a basket of internationally traded currencies, weighted with reference to their importance in China's external transactions and the trends in their relative values. The yuan-U.S. dollar rate is calculated directly from the value of the basket, while rates for 23 other currenciesl are determined from the cross rates. The exchange rate is published daily by the State General Administration for Exchange Control; on December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Y 1.7411 and Y 1.7499, respec- tively, per US$1. Published rates for currencies other than those that are important in China's international transactions are changed whenever the calculated rate diverges from the previously published rate by 1 per cent; for the important currencies, such as the U.S. dol- lar and the Japanese yen, a smaller margin of 0.5 per cent is applied. All spot transactions are performed at this official exchange rate. All national enterprises engaged in foreign trade are required to buy foreign exchange from the Bank of China at an internal settlement rate of Y 2.8 per US$1. This rate is formed by adding to the official rate an "equalization price" and applies to all national enterprises and corporations engaged in trade, as well as to receipts and expenditures in foreign exchange for trade-related transactions in invisibles such as shipping and insurance. The official rate remains in effect for all other trans- actions in invisibles and for all settlements with non- residents that are denominated in renminbi. An experimental trading system for foreign exchange has been established by the Bank of China in a few areas, such as Beijing, Guangdong, Hefei, Shanghai, and Tianjin. National enterprises holding foreign exchange earned through the system of retention quotas are per- mitted to sell this foreign exchange to other national enterprises that have a quota for spending foreign exchange. The Bank of China acts as a broker and levies a commission of 0.1-0.3 per cent on both sides of the transaction. The Bank of China does not operate in this trad ing system on its own account or provide foreign exchange or take up positions in foreign exchange. Most transactions are in U.S. dollars, but Hong Kong dollars and pounds sterling are also traded. All trans- actions in this market are spot transactions and are 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Ghanaian cedis, Guinean sylis, Hong Kong dollars, I ran ian rials, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Sierra Leonean leones, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and Tanzania shillings. 120 conducted at the internal settlement rate of Y 2.8 per US$1. Forward exchange rates are published for 15 cur- rencies.2 China does not apply a system of forward premiums and discounts, but instead uses the spot rate plus a forward charge. Forward transactions are only permitted in connection with an unde r ly ing trade trans- action. When banks sell renm inbi fo rwa rd, a charge is levied; when they buy, no charge is levied except for the Japanese yen and the Swiss f ranc. Rates are given for one to six months; transactions can be renewed for a fu r ther six months, but for not longer than one year. Forward charges reflect interest rates and trends in international markets in the currencies concerned. Administration of Control The State General Adm in is t ra t ion for Exchange Con- trol (SGAEC), a government depar tment under the direct control of the State Council, is responsible for controlling all foreign exchange transac t ions, in accor- dance with state policy. Where the SGAEC does not have a bureau, the local branch of the Bank of China acts as an agent for the SGAEC. Other banks and financial institutions ( for example, the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, the Standard Chartered Bank, the Overseas Chinese Bank ing Corporation, and the Bank of East Asia in Shangha i) may handle desig- nated transactions with the approval of the SGAEC. The China International Trust and Investment Corpora- tion (CITIC) is authorized to conduct transactions con- nected with investments of foreign capital in China. Individuals and institutions may hold foreign exchange but may not deal in it or conduct arbitrage operations. Foreign exchange transactions are generally made in accordance with a foreign exchange plan. That part of the foreign exchange plan dealing with foreign trade is prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The Min- istry of Foreign Economic Relations prepares the part dealing with external assistance and loans by China; the foreign exchange budgets of other government depart- ments are prepared by the Ministry of Finance. The SGAEC draws up the section of the plan covering local and provincial nontrade transactions, receipts from over- seas Chinese, and individual receipts. The overall foreign exchange plan is coordinated and balanced by the SGAEC, and af ter it has been reviewed and reconciled w i th other plans by the State Planning Commission, it is submitted to the State Council for approval. Follow- ing approval, the plan is sent back to the various locali- ties and ministries for implementation. The Bank of 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution China is responsible for supervising the imp lemen ta t ion of the foreign exchange plan. The foreign exchange plan, in principle, covers all transactions, including those with countries with which China ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements. The annual plan is divided into quarterly plans, and at the end of each quarter, the State P lann ing Commission reviews the implementation of the plan and determines whether corrections are necessary. That part of the fo r- eign exchange plan dealing with trade is broken down by commodity. Unexpected events, such as changes in foreign trade prices, might necessitate a revision of the plan. Special exchange control regulations apply to spe- cial economic zones and border regions. Prescription of Currency Trade transactions with A lban ia, Bu lga r ia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam are expressed in Swiss f rancs at the official exchange rate and are settled through bilateral pay- ments arrangements. In normal circumstances, imbal- ances emerging toward the end of each year are covered by increased deliveries of goods. Noncommercial trans- actions are settled on a current basis in convertible cur- rencies, except for the majority of such transactions with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and Romania, which pass through the clearing account. Payments to and from countries with which China has bilateral payments agreemen ts3 are made in currencies and in accordance with the procedures set for th in those agreements. In other cases, where there are no specific regulations prescribing the currencies to be used in transactions, they are determined by bilateral con- tract. Bilateral trade and payments agreements are of three kinds. Type A agreements are designed to ensure balanced trade and include, for each good b ind ing on both parties, itemized quan t i ta t ive commodity lists or foreign exchange quota lists for those commodities which cannot be expressed in quan t i ta t ive terms. Most arrange- ments are of this type. Type B agreements (those with Iran, Sierra Leone, and Syrian Arab Republic) provide such binding itemized lists only for the principal goods traded by the parties and also include nonb ind ing lists of secondary goods. Type C agreements (those with Cyprus and Greece) contain lists of goods only for illustrative purposes. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents4 in China for a short period may open nonresident accounts with the Bank of China. Joint ven- 3 China maintains bilateral paymen ts agreements w i th the fo l low ing Fund members: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Cyprus, Egypt, Finland, France, Hungary, Iran, Democratic Kampuchea, Pakistan, Romania, Sierra Leone, Syrian Arab Republic, and Viet Nam. It also maintains agreements w i th A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, and U.S.S.R. * Nonresidents include overseas Chinese and residents of foreign countries, Hong Kong, and Macao. Foreign embassies are also included. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA tures may also open foreign exchange accounts and use them to make payments abroad. With the permission of the Bank of China, foreign banks may hold convertible renminbi accounts in connection with commercial or noncommercial transactions. Renminbi may be pur- chased for such an account only on presentation of documen tary evidence that the money will be used in the designated transaction. The Bank of China may check any use made of renm inbi in such accounts. Imports and Exports The primary responsibility for the conduct of trade rests with the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade and the Import and Export A f fa i rs Adm in is tra t ion Commission (an organization under the State Counc i l ), which issue the licenses required for all import and export transactions. Most fore ign trade is conducted by state fore ign trade corporations under the direct leadership of the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade. Other entities may conduct fore ign trade only if authorized by license to do so by the M in is try of Foreign Trade and the SGAEC. The fo r- eign trade activities of entities that are not under the ju r isd ic t ion of the Ministry of Foreign Trade are super- vised and coordinated by the Import and Export A f f a i rs Administration Commission. Foreign trade corporations have branches in provinces, cities, and autonomous regions and are under the dual leadership of the local authorities and the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade. Localities and ministries other than the M in is try of Foreign Trade may also, a f t er registration, par t ic ipa te directly in foreign trade. Local fo re ign trade corporations have been established in a number of provinces, municipalities, and au tonomous regions. Ministries have also been permitted to establish foreign trade corporations. All enterprises, except registered state-owned fo re ign trade corporations, need a license from the local foreign trade bureau before they can trade or hold fo re ign exchange. Part of the proceeds of some exports may be retained in a foreign exchange deposit or foreign exchange quota account with the Bank of Ch ina. Such foreign exchange may be sold to other authorized enter- prises through the experimental trad ing system estab- lished by the Bank of China. All other foreign exchange earnings f rom exports must be repatriated and sur- rendered to the Bank of China, unless a specific excep- tion is granted by the SGAEC. Before using their hold- ings of foreign exchange, enterprises other than the foreign trade corporations must seek the approval of the SGAEC. The Bank of China provides foreign exchange for imports on the basis of import licenses and approval by the SGAEC. Enterprises must sell their foreign exchange earnings f rom invisibles to the Bank of China, except for the portion they may retain in accordance with specific regulations. Foreign trade is conducted in accordance w i th the annual foreign t rade plan. This plan is d rawn up by the Ministry of Foreign Trade in conjunction with the 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA State Planning Commission. The former sends direc- tives on the preparation of the plan to all foreign trade corporations and to the foreign trade bureaus in the provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions; these, in tu rn, meet with other interested entities and prepare lists of needed imports and goods available for export. The plans prepared at the local level are coordinated and balanced by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the State Planning Commission at national foreign trade p lann ing conferences. The State Council grants final approval to the foreign trade plan. Goods which can be produced domestically, or for which adequate domestic substitutes are available, are not included in the import plan. Priority is given in the import plan to goods that cannot be produced domes- tically in adequate quantities and those that are urgently needed by the State, especially for key projects. In the case of some goods that are not produced in adequate quantities but for which a good foreign market exists, part of the production may be allocated to export. The import and export of weapons, ammunition and explosives, radio receivers and transmitters, Chinese currency, manuscripts, printed and recorded materials, and films that are deemed to be detrimental to Chinese political, economic, cultural, and moral interests are pro- hibited. In addition, the import of poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased animals, and plants is prohibited, as is the export of valuable cultural relics and rare books, rare animals and plants, and precious metals and arti- facts made f rom these metals. The customs regulations in force are the Provisional Customs Law of the People's Republic of China and the Customs Import and Export Tariff of the People's Republic of China. Except for imports into Tibet, China applies a two-column import tariff with a general rate and a minimum rate. The minimum rate is applied to goods from those countries with which China has con- cluded reciprocal commercial treaties.5 The general rate applies to all other countries. Import duties are generally levied on the c.i.f. value of goods. The rates on dutiable imports under the general tariff fall into 24 scales rang- ing from 7.5 per cent to 250 per cent, while those under the minimum tariff fa ll into 20 scales ranging from 5 per cent to 150 per cent.6 5 These countries are as follows (classified by geographical a rea s ): (1) Africa: Benin, Bu rund i, Cameroon, Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Kenya, Libyan Arab Jamah i r iya, Mada- gascar, Mali, Maur i tan ia, Morocco, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Zai're, and Zambia. (2) Americas: Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Cuba, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, and United States. (3) Asia: Bangladesh, Burma, Cyprus, Iraq, Japan, Jordan, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lebanon, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Turkey, Viet Nam, Yemen Arab Republic, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. (4) Europe: Albania, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, German Democratic Republic, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, U.S.S.R., United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia. (5) Oceania: Australia and New Zealand. 6 On Janua ry 1, 1982 duty rates were changed on some 149 items. 122 Imports of non luxury goods in to Tibet f rom abroad are subject to a separate system of customs duties estab- lished by the Tibetan People's Government. The ta r i f f, however, only applies to goods imported directly into Tibet for use there. It does not apply to imports of other provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions through Tibet, or to imports through Tibet by mail or brought in as part of the luggage carried by travelers, or to luxury items imported into Tibet; such imports are subject to the regular Chinese ta r i f f. In addition to customs duties, the Consolidated Indus- trial and Commercial Tax (a turnover tax that is applied also to other commodities) is levied on imports in accordance with the list contained in the D r a ft Regula- tions of the Consolidated Industrial and Commercial Tax of the People's Republic of Ch ina. There are no export duties. In the case of compensation trade, a f t er imported materials and equipment have been paid for, net foreign exchange earnings accrue to the State. Of this total, 15 per cent may be retained and the rest must be sur- rendered. One half of the retained amount, or 7.5 per cent, remains with the enterprise, while the other half is retained by the locality if the enterprise is controlled at that level, or divided equally between the relevant ministry and the locality if the enterprise is under cen- tral leadership. In other cases, the percentage of export earnings that can be retained varies with the enterprise. Special economic zones have been set up in Shantou, Shenzhen, Xiamen, and Zhuhai. Foreigners and, in par- ticular, overseas Chinese are permitted to open factories in these zones for manu fac tu r ing products for export markets. Imports into such zones intended for processing and re-export are exempt from import duties. Profits generated in the zones are taxed at 15 per cent, as opposed to 30 per cent for jo int ventures within China. Invisibles Foreign exchange remitted f rom abroad or f rom the Hong Kong and Macao regions to Chinese citizens, for- eign nationals, or stateless persons residing in China must be surrendered to the Bank of China, except for the 10 per cent which may be retained when the remitted amount is equivalent to Y 3,000 or more. For residents of China repatriating foreign exchange held abroad or in the Hong Kong and Macao regions before October 1, 1949, or inherited af ter that date, up to 30 per cent of such inward rem i t tances may be re ta ined. Similarly, up to 30 per cent of foreign exchange owned by immigrants or re tu rn ing Chinese before becoming residents may be retained, provided application is made w i th in two months following entry into China. Such retained for- eign exchange may be sold to the Bank of China or remitted out of China through the Bank of China, or Duties on imports of rubber, timber, timber products, leather, pu lp and paper, some mach ine ry and equipment, and par ts and accessories for light industries and the textile indus try were lowered; import duties on certain other types of machinery and equipment were increased. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution taken out of China against certification by the Bank of China. All foreign exchange earned by Chinese residents when working abroad, or in Hong Kong or Macao, or earned from publication fees, copyright fees, awards, subsidies, honoraria, or other premiums must be repatri- ated and may not be deposited abroad; but individuals may retain all or part of such earnings according to prevailing regulations. All the surrendered portion of foreign exchange remittances is accorded the privileged treatment given to remittances by overseas Chinese. Foreign staff members and employees, as well as those from the Hong Kong and Macao regions,7 may remit 50 per cent of salaries and other income earned in China after payment of taxes. Profits of joint ventures may be remitted after taxation, in accordance with foreign exchange regulations; such remittances are subject to the approval of the local branch of the Bank of China and should be paid through the foreign exchange account of the joint venture. Remitted profits are sub- ject to an additional tax of 10 per cent. If a Chinese resident wishes to spend money on travel abroad, receive his pension abroad, or remit money abroad, he must apply to the local SGAEC bureau for approval. Such factors as the individual's normal income and expenditure are examined to determine if approval is to be granted for remittances. In cases of serious illness, death, or in ju ry affecting a Chinese resident's parents, spouse, or children outside China, he may be allocated the necessary foreign exchange on presenta- tion of documentary verification. If permission is granted to travel abroad, a Chinese resident is normally allowed to take a reasonable amount of foreign exchange to cover expenses for transport and subsistence; any surplus must be repatriated and surrendered to the Bank of China. There is no tax on travel. A Chinese resident who retires and emigrates is normally permitted to receive his pension abroad but he is not normally per- mitted to remit the proceeds from any assets he may sell in China. Foreign exchange remitted or brought in by nonresi- dents may be converted into either Chinese currency or foreign exchange certificates denominated in yuan. For- eign exchange certificates can be used solely by nonresi- dents in hotels, restaurants, and shops serving nonresi- dents, for purchasing airline tickets and through train or ship fares to Hong Kong and Macao, and for inter- national telecommunications charges and parcel post charges. Persons entering China must declare their holdings of foreign currency and may take out of China any unused foreign currency on presentation of the import declaration form issued by the customs. The import and export of Chinese banknotes are prohibited. Foreign exchange certificates may be imported, but export is subject to the provision of documentation 7 Including those employed by enterprises with overseas and foreign Chinese capital. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA showing that it has been acquired legitimately. Chinese residents must show their authorization to export for- eign currency at the border. Joint ventures are required to insure themselves with Chinese insurance companies. Capital A policy of permitting foreign borrowing on a planned basis has been instituted. Loans for vital projects or projects which have a rapid rate of return are given priority approval. All sections and departments wishing to borrow abroad must prepare a plan showing the kinds of imports for which the loan is intended. Such plans must show the amount of foreign exchange needed and how much of this will be earned and how much bor- rowed from abroad. All such plans are submitted to the State Planning Commission, which reviews them in cooperation with the Foreign Investment Control Com- mission. If the imports are for new construction, the plans are also reviewed by the State Capital Construction Commission. (All three Commissions are under the supervision of the State Council.) Approval of foreign loans is based on a consideration of the need for foreign capital, the ability of the borrow- ing unit to repay, and the overall debt-service ratio of China. Most loans are made through the Bank of China or, in the case of some loans to provinces or enterprises that are able to repay the loan themselves, with Bank of China guarantees. External borrowing plans by entities other than the Bank of China must be sub- mitted to the SGAEC and the Foreign Investment Con- trol Commission for examination and forward ing to the State Council for approval, before loans from abroad or from the Hong Kong and Macao regions can be incurred. Resident organizations may not issue securi- ties for foreign exchange unless approved by the State Council. All foreign investment projects are subject to the approval of the Foreign Investment Control Commis- sion. The policy with respect to foreign capital is designed both to make up the insufficiency of domestic capital and to facilitate the introduction of modern technology and management. All foreign exchange earned by joint ventures should be kept in a Bank of China account. Transfers of capital require SGAEC approval. When a joint venture is wound up, the net claims belonging to the foreign investor may be remitted with SGAEC approval through the foreign exchange account of the joint venture. Alternatively, the foreign investor may apply for repayment of his paid-in capital. Profits of joint ventures, with the exception of firms in special economic zones and those exploiting petroleum, natural gas, and other resources, are subject to tax at 33 per cent (30 per cent basic rate plus a 10 per cent surcharge on the assessed t ax ). As mentioned above, remitted profits are subject to an additional tax of 10 per cent. A joint venture scheduled to operate for ten years or more may be exempted from income tax in the first 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA year of operation and be allowed a 50 per cent reduc- tion for the second and third years. Joint ventures in low-profit operations or located in remote, economically underdeveloped outlying areas may be allowed a fu r ther 15-30 per cent reduction in income tax for the follow- ing ten years. A participant in a joint venture which reinvests its share of profit in China for a period of not less than five years may obtain a refund of 40 per cent of the tax paid on the reinvested amount. Some joint ventures concluded before the passing of tax regulations in August 1980 are subject to taxes at different rates.8 Foreign investment by Chinese enterprises is subject to approval; profits thereby earned must be sold to the Bank of China, except for a portion which may be retained locally as a working balance. Chinese diplo- matic and commercial organizations abroad and under- takings abroad and in Hong Kong and Macao are required to draw up annual foreign exchange plans. Gold The People's Bank of China buys and sells gold and has central control over dealings in gold and silver. Sales of gold and silver are restricted to pharmaceutical, industrial, and other approved uses. Private persons may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold, gold products, silver, and silver products that may be imported is unlimited but must be declared on entry. When exporting gold or silver, the exporter must present an import document from the customs or a Bank of China export permit. Nonresidents may buy gold and silver and gold and silver products at special stores but must present the invoice when exporting them. 8 On January 1, 1982 China's Income Tax Law concerning foreign enterprises came into force. Under this law, foreign enterprises (defined as foreign companies, enterprises, and other economic organizations which have establishments in China engaged in inde- pendent business operation, or cooperative production, or joint business operation with Chinese enterprises) are subject to tax on their net income. Income f rom interest on deposits of foreign banks in China's state banks and on loans given at a normal interest rate by foreign banks to China's state banks is similarly subject to income tax. Foreign banks originating f rom countries in which income f rom interest on deposits and loans of China's state banks is exempted f rom income tax are exempt from this Chinese income tax. Changes during 1981 January 1. An internal settlement ra te of Y 2.8 per US$1 was introduced for all trade transactions. An experimental foreign exchange t rad ing system was also established. January 16. A State Council Order was published requiring all government and trade un i ts to remit by March 1, 1981 to the Bank of China any foreign exchange held abroad. March 1. Remittances of salaries and other incomes earned in China by foreign employees of jo int ventures were limited to 50 per cent. March 1. The Provisional Regulation for Exchange Control, promulgated by the State Council on Decem- ber 18, 1980 came into force. July 15. New regulations govern ing fo re ign exchange certificates were issued by the Bank of China. August 10. Rules governing the ca r ry ing of foreign exchange, precious metals, and payments instruments in convertible currency into and out of China were issued by the State General Adm in is tra t ion for Exchange Con- trol. In addition, exchange control regulations were issued related to foreign representations in China and their personnel. September 25. The basis for the assessment of cus- toms duties on television sets, radio recorders, and elec- tronic calculators imported by individuals for private use was changed f rom a c.i.f. basis to a domestic retail price basis. (The rate of duty involved, i.e., 50 per cent on television sets and radio recorders and 20 per cent on electronic calculators, remained unchanged .) November 1. Duties on imports by t rad ing corpora- tions were raised as follows: television sets, f rom 10 per cent to 60 per cen t; radios or recorders, f rom 30 per cent to 60 per cent; and electronic calculators, f rom 25 per cent to 40 per cent. December 31. New rules were issued by the State General Administration for Exchange Control concern- ing individual foreign exchange holdings and applica- tions for foreign exchange by individuals. 124 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. The authorities of Colombia follow a policy of adjust- ing the peso in small amounts at relatively short inter- vals, taking into account (1) the movements of prices in Colombia relative to those in its ma jor trading partners; (2) the level of Colombia's foreign exchange reserves; and (3) Colombia's overall balance of pay- ments performance. Exchange surrender and foreign payments are generally effected through the medium of exchange certificates, which are traded in the official market at the official rate and in the stock exchange at varying rates of discount. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates in the official market for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Col$59.07 and Col$59.31, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with da i ly quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic (the central b ank) or autho- rized banks. There are other effective exchange rates which result from (1) a 12 per cent tax on coffee export proceeds; (2) tax credit certificates granted at three d i f fe rent per- centage rates for most export proceeds; ( 3) a discount of about 5 per cent on surrender of exchange certificates issued against proceeds from exports of emeralds, pearls, and services, prior to the 120-day redemption period; and (4) the imposition of remittance tax at two d ifferent rates on certain service payments. The peso equivalent of the Government's exchange receipts f rom the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury's Special Exchange Account at an accounting rate applied by the Bank of the Republic; the Government purchases exchange for all public debt payments and other expenditures included in the national budget at the same exchange rate. The Bank of the Republic stands ready to sell exchange warran ts (titulos canjeables por certificados de cambio, titulos de divisas, or certificados de futuro) to the public, against payment in pesos at the certificate market selling rate on the date of issue. These warrants, which are expressed in U.S. dollars and have a maturity of six months or one year, are negotiable and may also be exchanged for exchange certificates, provided that the holder presents an exchange license. Within their period of validity, wa r ran ts may also be sold to the Bank of the Republic for pesos, at the certificate market buying rate on the date of repurchase. Warrants bear 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and Venezuelan bolivares. interest at 14 per cent a year. Warrants held until a f ter maturity cease to bear interest and can no longer be converted into exchange certificates but may be resold to the Bank at the certificate market rate on the maturity date. Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior registration at the Colombian Ins t i tu te of Foreign Trade ( INCOMEX ). Exchange for payments must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic; however, payments for specified current transactions, when made through credit institutions, do not require prior exchange licenses but must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic for ex post authentication. The Monetary Board is autho- rized periodically to draw up a foreign exchange budget but has not exercised that power in recent years. It can also establish priorities within that budget for the delivery of exchange, after setting aside the amounts necessary to cover the obligations of the Bank of the Republic and to service the external debt of the public agencies and the National Federation of Coffee Growers. Overall import and export policy is determined by the Foreign Trade Council (FTC). INCOMEX, through its Import Board, controls those imports that are subject to prior licensing. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives concerning direct investment in Colombia to the Exchange Office and the National Planning Department. The Exchange Office keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad and controls the movements of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, commissions, and royalties for trade- marks, patents, etc. The sale of proceeds f rom certain current invisibles is also subject to prior registration with the Exchange Office. The Superintendency of Exchange Control, which is an autonomous agency reporting to the Presidency of the Republic, enforces the control and supervision over exchange transactions and is responsible for applying penalties for any violation of the exchange regulations. Prescription of Currency The Monetary Board establishes the list of currencies which it accepts for exchange surrender and provides for import payments. Payments and receipts are nor- mally effected in U.S. dollars, but importers and exporters are also free to use quoted currencies (see footnote 1 ). Settlements for commercial transactions with countries with which Colombia has bilateral pay- ments agreements2 must be made through clearing 2 Bulgaria, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and Yugoslavia. 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA accounts in accordance with the provisions of the par- ticular bilateral payments agreement. Settlements between Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, and Venezuela are made through accounts main- tained within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LA IA ). There are also reciprocal credit agreements with Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Spain, and member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM ). Nonresident Accounts Credit institutions are authorized to receive short- term deposits in foreign currency from physical or juridical persons not resident in Colombia; these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any foreign cur- rency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colombian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. Before releasing the accounts of nonresidents, banks must obtain authorization from the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments There is no prohibited import list. Imports are classi- fied either as goods whose import is subject to prior licensing by INCOMEX or as goods that may be imported freely without license although subject to registration. In the latter category, there is a global free list applicable to all countries, a National List applicable only to mem- ber countries of the LAIA, and special lists applicable only to less developed member countries of the LAIA and to members of the Andean Pact. A distinction is drawn between reimbursable and nonreimbursable imports. The term reimbursable imports covers imports that must be paid for within certain time limits, i.e., for raw materials and consumer goods, 150 days, and for capital goods, from three to five years; they include imports under bilateral payments agreements and those that are settled through multilateral clearing accounts and those financed by long-term loans. Nonreim- bursable imports consist mainly of aid imports under grants and commodities constituting part of a direct investment. All import registrations by public sector agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether local substitutes are available. Import licenses for cer- tain items are not normally issued; these include arms and habit-forming drugs, certain foods tuffs, certain textiles and clothing, and jewelry. Both import licenses and registrations are valid for nine months, except for imports of agricultural and livestock products, for which the validity period is three months. Imports licenses can be extended for successive three-month periods, whereas registrations of free imports can be extended only once for up to three months. Prior registration of the import transaction at INCOMEX is required for all imports other than those 126 classified as "minor imports" or shipments with an f.o.b. value of less than US$500. The charge for import registration is Col$ 1,500. In order to obtain exchange licenses, advance import payments deposits (depositos previo a la nationalization de mercancias) of 35 per cent of the registered amount must be made in Colom- bian currency with an authorized bank before customs clearance. Importers then receive nonnegotiable, interest-free deposit certificates for foreign payments (titulos de deposito para pagos al exterior) denominated in foreign currency and valid for 36 months. These may be used to purchase foreign exchange for partial pay- ment of the import transaction (w i th in any max imum payment terms specified by the Monetary Board for the type of transaction concerned). Unused certificates may be sold to the Bank of the Republic at the original exchange rate. The following are exempt f rom advance import pay- ments deposits: imports brought into Colombia under special import-export arrangements (the Vallejo P lan); foods tuffs for direct consumption; direct imports for the military and the police; imports from Eastern Europe; imports from countries w i th which reciprocal credit arrangements are in force (LAIA countries, CACM countries, the Dominican Republic, Cuba, and Spa in ); imports financed with loans from international organizations; books, newspapers, and magazines; and gasoline. There is also an advance exchange license deposit (consignation) which has to be lodged, at the official rate for exchange certificates, prior to applying for an exchange license. The rate of deposit is 95 per cent of the value of the import. If the transaction is also sub- ject to the advance import payment deposit of 35 per cent, this is counted as part of the deposit for the advance exchange license. Imports financed with special credit lines f rom the Bank of the Republic or with funds from the national budget are exempt f rom advance import payments deposits. The Department of Development Credit in the Bank of the Republic can approve payment terms of up to seven years in special cases. Import duties are calculated at the "Ministry of Finance exchange rate" (the average selling rate for exchange certificates for the previous month, as deter- mined by the Ministry of F inance ). In addition to customs duties, there is an ad valorem tax on imports equal to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value, the proceeds of which go to the Export Promotion Fund. Exempt from this tax are imports by public entities; goods of LAIA origin; imports under the Vallejo Plan; diplomatic, consular, and similar imports; g if ts; and imports destined for the free port of San Andres y Providencia or effected through the port of Leticia. With the above exemptions, imports are also subject to a tax of 1.5 per cent of the c.i.f. value, whose proceeds accrue to the ordinary budget of the National Government. All imports ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution (except newsprint) are subject to a s tamp tax of 1 per cent of the f .o.b. value.3 Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the exchange certificate rate. Advance deposits must be made prior to applying for exchange licenses at a rate of 80 per cent for freight payments for imports. An advance exchange license deposit for payments for invisibles, amounting to 95 per cent of the transaction, must be effected in local currency prior to the issuance of an exchange license. The deposit requirement on freight payments for imports can be counted as part of the advance exchange license deposit. Most payments for invisibles are subject to exchange licenses; however, the Bank of the Republic may make payments abroad on behalf of credit institutions without prior exchange license. Commercial banks in cities where Exchange Offices are located may sell exchange directly for the purpose of fore ign travel. Banks may also transfer without pr ior approval payments for cer- tain other current invisibles, including fre ight payments, bank ing commissions, interest on suppliers' credit, medi- cal expenses, support of technical staff abroad, the monthly allowances of students studying abroad with government support, and for the service on registered foreign loans taken up by the private sector. No exchange restrictions exist for travel abroad. There are also no limits on ou tward remittances for bona fide cases of student allowances and fam i ly maintenance. The t rans fer of profits accruing to foreign investors is limited to 20 per cent of the investment a year. An additional 7 per cent may be reinvested. Profits in excess of 27 per cent may be capitalized as direct invest- ment, whenever at least 50 per cent of the investment is in the fo rm of bonds issued by the Industrial Promo- tion Institute. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period not exceeding three months may, on leaving the country, purchase foreign currency not exceeding US$60 on presentation of their boarding pass. A remittance tax of 12 per cent is applicable to a number of current payments; for profits transferred by branches of fore ign companies, the tax is 20 per cent. Colombian na t iona ls and resident foreigners are required to pay a travel tax of US$15 whenever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of crude oil and certain other commodities are prohibited, and exports of certain foodstuffs are subject to quotas. Exports of certain other items, such as beef, are reserved for the Ins t i tu te de Mercado Agro- pecuario ( !DEMA ). No export licenses are required, but prior application for registration is necessary for all 3 The stamp tax, introduced on March 31, 1981, replaced the con- sular invoice tax of 1 per cent fo rme r ly collected by INCOMEX at the time of registration of foreign trade transactions. COLOMBIA exports except samples and Colombian products in non- commercial quantities. When registering an export transaction, exporters must provide INCOMEX with either a personal guarantee in pesos (but without depositing any fund s) or a bank guaran tee corresponding to 20 per cent of the registered amount, calculated at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate. The periods for surrendering export proceeds normally are as follows: ( 1) for coffee, within 20 days from the date of registra- tion of the export; and (2) for other goods, generally within 270 days of registration. However, longer terms are permitted for goods sold on a commission basis, that is, books, magazines, and other printed matter, capital goods, and other goods that normally require more extended payment terms. The Bank of the Republic is empowered in certain cases to retain a portion of the exchange proceeds surrendered by the exporter of any product to repay debts for imports under the Vallejo Plan. All exchange proceeds f rom exports, except those f r om the export of crude oil not produced by the Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo (ECOPETROL ), must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic; ECOPETROL and exporters of minerals associated with state enterprises also are per- mitted to retain part of their export proceeds abroad for the settlement of their import costs. On surrender ing their export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than coffee, raw cattle hides, or petroleum and petroleum products receive tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario, or CATs) in an amount corresponding to a specified percentage of the total earnings sur- rendered, converted at the M in is try of Finance exchange rate. This ratio is 5 per cent, 9 per cent, or 12 per cent, depending on the commodity; the rates are calculated on domestic value added for specified assembly opera- tions. These certificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices three months af ter issuance for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and sales taxes. The surrender of foreign currency earned by exports is effected by exchanging the foreign currency for exchange certificates that are negotiable on the stock exchange. In the case of exchange certificates issued against proceeds f rom exports of emeralds and pearls, a discount of 5 per cent is applied if the certificates are presented to the bank ing system for redemption within 120 days of issue. Certificates issued against export proceeds f rom other exports are redeemed by the Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (PROEXPO) without that discount. M in imum surrender prices for coffee, bananas, and a few other exports are set f rom time to time by the Monetary Board. Exports of coffee are subject to the fo l low ing regulations: (1) A m in imum surrender price (reintegro} is fixed a f ter deduction for fre ight and insur- ance at US$206.50 a 70-kilogram bag. (2) Exporters 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA pay a tax in fo re ign exchange at the ra te of 12 per cent ad va lo rem. Of this tax, 3.2 percen tage po in ts are pa id to the Na t ional Coffee Fund, and 0 .8 percen tage po in ts are paid to the Depa r tmen tal Comm i t tees of Coffee Growers, wh i le the rema inder provides revenue for the Treasury's Special Exchange Accoun t. ( 3) Exporters must e i ther su r render w i thout payment ( in the fo rm of un trea ted co f fee) the equ iva lent of 30 per cent of the vo lume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention cafetera) or pay the N a t ion al Federa t ion of Coffee Growers the peso equ iva len t. (4) Expor ts of coffee are subject to an additional tax of 6 per cent ad va lo rem (pasilla y ripio t a x ); the tax must be paid to the Federation e i ther in k ind or in pesos. (5) A com- m i t tee composed of the M i n i s t e rs of F in an ce and Ag r i- c u l t u re and the Manag ing D i rec tor of the Federa t ion establishes a domes t ic b u y i ng pr ice for export-type coffee, expressed in pesos per carga of 125 k i log rams. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll exchange receipts f rom inv i s ib les m u st be su r- rendered; they are conver ted aga inst exchange ce r t i f i- cates which can be sold in the stock exchange. If they are sold to the b ank ing system w i t h in 120 days of issue, a d iscount of 5 per cent is app l ied. For sur- renders in respect of g i f ts and the r end e r ing of p ro fes- s ional services other th an med ica l, hosp i ta l, or educa- tional services, prior au tho r iza t ion f rom the Exchange Office is requ ired. Capital A ll inward and ou twa rd cap i tal t r a n s f e rs are effec ted at the ce r t i f ica te m a r k et rate. There is a 95 per cent advance p aym ent deposit on all ou t f lows, which mu st be lodged pr ior to app ly ing for an exchange license. All fore ign inves tment in Colombia, all new fo re ign loans, direct lines of fo re ign c red it ob ta ined by nonbank residents ,4 and the movement of cap i tal previously imported (except loans previously registered under Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be regis- tered w i th the Exchange Off ice. Cap i tal impo r ts requ i re pr ior approval by the Na t ional P l a n n i ng Depa r tmen t, and cap i tal for the pe tro leum indu s t ry or for other m in e r al exp lora t ion in add i t ion requires approval by the M in i s t ry of Mines and Energy. Cap i tal reg i s t ra t ion en t i t les the investor to export prof i ts and to repa tr ia te cap i tal at the ce r t i f ica te ma rket ra te on certain condi- t ions specified in Decree No. 1900 of September 15, 1973. The t r an s f er of p ro f i ts is l im i ted to 20 per cent of the net capital value in any one year (beg inn ing w i th prof i ts earned in 1968), except for p ro f i ts resu l t ing f rom inves tmen ts of ou t s t and ing impo r tance or invo lv ing special risks in view of the circumstances preva i l ing in * Suppliers' credits of a once-and-for-all n a tu re also requ i re regis- t r a t i o n; th e ir r e p a ym e nt is au tho r ized by the exchange license cove r ing the re levant impo rt t r an s a c t ion. Such c red i ts are sub ject to an in te rest ra te ceiling of 2 per cent over the New York pr ime ra te or the London in t e rb ank offered ra te. 128 the i n t e r n a t i o n al money m a rk e t. If in any year the e a r n i n gs r em i t t ed a re less t h an 20 per c en t, the ba lance may be rem i t ted in subsequent yea r s; whe re the p ro f i ts were earned ( a nd not r em i t t e d) p r ior to the com ing in to fo rce of Decree-Law No. 444 of 1967, the add i- t ional rem i t tances must not exceed 3 per cent a year. New inves tmen ts may be g r an t ed exemp t ions f r om import d u ty and f rom advance depos it requ i remen t s. Cap i tal inves ted in the pe t ro leum i n d u s t ry is sub ject to spec ial ru les and to c o n t r a c t u al p rov i s ion s. A ll fo r e ign b a n ks and th e ir b ranches mu st have Co lomb ian m a j o r i ty pa r t ic ipa t ion. In th is respect, "subregional" pa r t ic ipa- t i o ns ( i .e ., f r om member coun t r i es of the A n d e an P a c t) a re t rea ted as Co lomb ian p a r t i c i p a t i o n s. New d i rect fo r e ign inv e s tm ent in b a n k s, i n s u r a n ce compan ie s, and o ther f inanc ial i n s t i t u t i o ns is r e s t r i c t ed to inve s to rs f r om member coun t r i es of the A n d e an Pact and to "na t iona l" or "mixed" compan ies. Fore ign p a r t i c i p a t i on is also res t r ic ted in new or es tab l ished comp an i es engaged in the i n t e r n a t i o n al resale of impo r t ed and domes t ic p roduc ts or in a c t iv i t i es re la ted to t o u r i sm. Purchases of 10 per cent or more of the shares of a Co lomb ian f inanc ial i n s t i t u t i on r equ i re the p r i or app roval of the B a n k i ng S u p e r i n t e n d e n t. Foreign loans con t r a c t ed by p r i v a te Colombian i n d i- v idua ls or f irms are gene ra l ly sub ject to a m i n i m um m a t u r i ty of f ive years and to an in t e r e st ra te ce i l ing of 2 per cent over the New York p r ime ra te or the London i n t e r b a nk o f fe red ra te. Such loans n o rm a l ly are per- m i t ted on ly when m i n i ng compan ies a re invo lved or j u r i d i c al persons who are es tab l ished in Co lomb ia as rep resen ta t ives of fo r e ign f irms and are c o n t r i b u t i ng to the con s t ru c t ion of pub l ic wo rks of n a t i o n al in te re s t. Special r egu l a t ions govern the pe r iods for wh ich res ident b anks m ay p rov ide impo rt f in an c ing f r om fo r e ign cu r- rency borrowed abroad. Fore ign loans for n a t i o n al or gov e rnm en t al e n t i t i es in excess of Col$10 m i l l i on or US$500,000 requ i re p r ior a u t h o r i z a t i on by the M i n i s t ry of F inance and the N a t i o n al P l a n n i ng D ep a r tm en t. For loans to the Gov e rnm en t, or gua ran teed by the Govern- m en t, the f o l l ow i ng a re also r e q u i r e d: p r ior au tho r i z a- t ion by the N a t ion al Counc il for Econom ic and Social Policy and by the Mone ta ry Board, p r ior con su l t a t ion w i th the In te rpa r l iamen ta ry Committee on Public C red i t, and ex post approval by the P res ident of the Repub l ic. Con t rac ts invo lv ing roya l t ies, comm iss ions, trade- ma rks or pa ten t s, and s im i l ar a r r ang em en ts must be registered w i th the Exchange Office to enab le the bene f ic ia ry to make t r a n s f e rs abroad. They requ i re app roval by the Roya l t ies Comm i t tee be fo re they can be registered. Co lomb ian n a t i o n a ls who have invested abroad must su r render to the Bank of the Repub l ic, aga inst exchange cer t if ica tes, not on ly the in te res t, prof i ts, commissions, and roya l t ies but also the proceeds of the sale or l iqu ida t ion of the investment. Exports of capital ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by residents are restricted, and such exports by p r iva te individuals are not norma l ly permitted. Current deposit accounts in foreign currency may be held by resident credit institutions, insurance companies, export firms, transportation companies, and other speci- fied entities, upon prior authorization of the Bank of the Republic. Gold Na tural and ju r id ic ial persons may trade in Colombia in gold coins for num isma t ic purposes only. With this exception, only the Bank of the Republic is entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold. Imports of nonmonetary gold are not norma l ly under taken. The Bank of the Republic purchases locally produced gold at the average price preva i l ing in the London and Zurich markets du r ing the preceding week; m in ing companies with foreign capital par t ic ipa t ion are paid 50 per cent in foreign currency on presentation of exchange licenses entitling them to make payments abroad for services, dividends, capital repayments, taxes, etc.; the remaining 50 per cent and all paymen ts to domestic producers are paid at the certificate market exchange rate. The certifi- cates held by small producers are bought by the Bank of the Republic in pesos at their market value. In addition, the Bank of the Republic levies an ad valorem tax of 2 per cent on the to tal payment received by the m iner. The Bank of the Republic makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use either direct or through the Colombian M in ing Association at a price equivalent to the average quotation in gold markets abroad dur ing the previous mon th; this price is converted into pesos at the prevailing selling rate of exchange certificates on the date of sale. The assay and refining houses and the mining com- panies producing gold are under the supervision of the Superintendency of Exchange Control. In addition, the mining companies must ob ta in a license f rom the Super- intendency in order to carry on their operations. The Bank of the Republic f rom time to time strikes commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents and nonresidents may free ly buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1981 January 13. Import duties were reduced for items in about 50 customs categories, covering pharmaceuticals and various other products (Decrees No. 19 and No. 20, Ministry of Finance and Public Cred i t). January 15. All sugar exports were required to be properly registered with INCOMEX (Decree No. 54, Min- istry of Ag r icu l tu re ). In addition, the Ministry of Agri- cu l ture was empowered to establish quotas on domestic sale of sugar by sugar mills in order to assure adequate domestic supply. January 28. It was announced that certificates of exchange acquired by the Bank of the Republic af ter COLOMBIA more than 270 days of their da te of issue would con- t inue to be redeemed at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of issue, but wou ld no longer be subject to the 5 per cent discount originally es tab l ished in 1978 (M B R N o. 3 ). February 26. Import duties were reduced for items in about 50 customs categories, covering rubber and machinery imports (Decree No. 464, Ministry of Fi- nance and Public C red i t ). March 10. The requirement for importers to complete consular invoice forms was eliminated, leaving only that of submitting the commercial invoices (Decree No. 608, M in is t ry of Economic Development). March 31. A. I per cent import levy was introduced as a s tamp tax to replace the consular invoice tax of 1 per cent, which used to be collected by INCOMEX (Cus toms Department Resolution No. 0039 ). April 14. The import du ty on imports of ink was reduced f rom 25 to 10 per cent for cer ta in types of ink when imported by ink m anu f a c tu r e rs as raw ma ter ia ls (Customs Department Resolution No. 935). April 20. M in imum f.o.b. prices were established for certain automobile imports for purposes of ad valorem import duties (Customs Depar tment Resolution No. 01063). April 22. The m in imum surrender price for a 70-kilo- gram bag of coffee was increased f rom US$181.95 to US$186.55 (M B RN o. 13). April 23. The retention rate (retention cafetera) was increased f rom 15 per cent to 20 per cent for exports of excelso coffee. In add i t ion, effective September 1, 1981, the ad valorem tax on coffee exports was reduced f rom 13 per cent to 12 per cent (Decree No. 1019, M in is try of Finance and Public C red i t ). April 24. Eight customs categories covering mach in- ery and other items were transferred to the free ly importable list. April 30. Two customs categories were transferred to the freely impor tab le list, while others were shifted to the prior license list ( INCOMEX Resolution No. 025). May 6. Congress approved Colombia's membership in the 1980 Montevideo Treaty, which replaced the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) with the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA) (Law No. 45/81). May 8. Legislation was enacted specifying that there could be three k inds of free zones ( indus t r ia l, com- mercial, and indus t r ia l /comme rc ia l ), and defining which enterprises could operate in the free zones (Law No. 4 7 / 8 1 ). May 14. Congress approved Colombia's membership in the GATT (Law No. 4 9 / 8 1 ). May 25. Changes were made in the ta r i ff schedule as follows: (a) customs duties were reduced for some imports of machinery and indus tr ial equipment; (b) the 5 per cent import du ty applied for the past five years on imports of certain machinery and industrial equip- 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA ment was extended to June 30, 1982; and its coverage was extended to certain equipment imports when used for complete production units outside Bogota, Medellin, and Cali (when used in these three cities, the duty rate would be 10 per cent unless requests for their reduction to 5 per cent were made by June 30, 1981); and (c) the 1 per cent import du ty on imports of equip- ment to eliminate pollution was extended until the end of December 1982. (The preceding summary includes actions taken on June 23 and 25—see Decree Nos. 1317, 1629, 1630, 1631, and 1643 of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.) June 23. About 130 customs categories covering cereals, chemicals, wood products, and machinery were transferred from the list of imports subject to prior approval to the freely importable list ( INCOMEX Reso- lution No. 036). July 3. Resin imports under two customs categories were shifted to the list of items requiring prior approval ( INCOMEX Resolution No. 42 ). July 15. Freight costs related to the importation of equipment and capital goods under a global license were permitted to be paid within the time period for the financing of the value of imports (MBR No. 21 ). July 24. Import duties were reduced for items under five customs categories, covering certain chemicals and instruments, and increased for tricycles (Decree No. 2023, Ministry of Finance and Public Credit). July 27. Clinical thermometers and tapes were trans- ferred to the list of items requiring prior approval (INCOMEX Resolution No. 048). July 31. An import duty of 1 per cent was imposed on certain kinds of tire imports, and the import duties on certain types of machinery were modified (Decree No. 2029, Ministry of Finance and Public Credit). August 12. In regard to Resolution No. 3/81 of the Monetary Board, which had eliminated the 5 per cent discount on certificates of exchange redeemed af ter 270 days of issuance, it was clarified that the 5 per cent discount would be charged on certificates for which a period of 271 days from issue had elapsed by Janu- ary 30, 1981 (MBR No. 29). August 26. The credit line of the Bank of the Repub- lic to PROEXPO to discount export letters of credit was increased from US$20 million to US$40 million and the rediscount rates were raised from a range of 2-4 per cent to 4-6 per cent; in addition, PROEXPO reduced its rediscount rate f rom 20 to 16 per cent (MBR No. 32 and PROEXPO Resolution No. 06 ). August 28. Benefits under the CATs were increased from 9 per cent to 12 per cent for exports of unwoven fabrics, pipes, and critic acid; f rom 5 to 9 per cent for cotton and sesame; from zero to 9 per cent for pulses and vegetables; and from zero to 4 per cent for flowers, processed leather, and cocoa; they were reduced from 12 to 9 per cent for exports of stamps and industrial gloves and eliminated for exports of ceramic and metallic statues and other ornamen ts, platinum and other unprocessed metals, and carton boxes. In addi- tion, the waiting period for the use of the CATs was reduced to three months for all products. September 17. The retention rate (retention cafe- tera) was increased f rom 20 to 25 per cent for exports of excelso coffee (Decree No. 2563, M in i s t ry of Finance and Public Cred i t). September 23. Imports of edible oils were made sub- ject to a 40 per cent ad valorem tax, and the m in imum official import price for them was eliminated (Decree No. 2652, M in is try of Finance and Public C red i t ). October 16. Imports of certain types of wire and engine parts were transferred to the prior approval list, and imports of radios and parts of fu rn i tu re and cabinets were transferred to the freely importable list (INCOMEX Resolution No. 072). October 29. Regulations were in troduced prohibiting investors from purchasing 10 per cent or more of the shares of a Colombian financial ins t i tu t ion without pr ior approval f rom the Superintendent of Banking. November 5. The m in imum surrender price a 70-kilogram bag of coffee exports was increased from US$186.55 to US$201.90 (MBR No. 43 ). November 6. Import duties were reduced by 25-30 per cent for imports of electric alternators, transmission equipment and other electronic equipment, leaving the duties in a range of 5-30 per cent ( INCOMEX Resolu- tion No. 3108). November 23. Imports of items under 11 customs categories, including various iron, steel, and a lum inum plates, were transferred to the prior approval list. Eleven customs positions were affected (INCOMEX Reso- lution No. 078). November 25. The maturity period for certificates of exchange was lengthened from 120-270 days to 120-690 days, and the extension was made retroactive to certificates issued on February 25, 1981. 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Comoros is the CFA Franc, which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The current buying and selling rates for the French f ranc are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other curren- cies l are also officially quoted and are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Comoros do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose institute of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence all paymen ts to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Comoros. The Ministry of Finance, Economy, Plan- ning, and Foreign Trade supervises borrowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all out- ward investments. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to an authorized bank —the sole commercial bank —and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the authorized bank or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Direc- torate-General of Economic A f fa i rs in the Ministry of Finance, Economy, Planning, and Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency The Central Bank of Comoros maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, Kenya shillings, Mauritian rupees, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, South African rand, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of South A f r ican origin are prohibited, and the import of certain other goods is prohibited from all countries. The import f rom any source of certain other commodities is subject to individual licensing. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CFAF 500,000 or more. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South A f r ica are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Those to other countries are subject to approval; with the exception of travel, for which there are maximum allocations, such approvals are generally given liberally. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain up to CFAF 250,000 in fore ign currency a person a trip. The maximum that may be allocated in banknotes is CFAF 125,000; the remainder may be in the form of a bank transfer, travelers checks, a certified check, or any other means of payment. For business travel, a special allocation may be authorized by the Central Bank of Comoros upon the request of the authorized bank. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. With a few exceptions, exports to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must normally be collected, and the receipts repatriated within 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract and sold immediately to the authorized bank. All export trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CFAF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign cur- rency, be surrendered within one mon th of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign banknotes and coin. Capital All settlements between the Comoros and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between the 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and all outward investment; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts, Gold T , t, . ,, . Imports and exports of gold in any form require prior t_ • A- j * n •** A authorization and are not normally permitted. Changes during 1981 July 1. The Central Bank of Comoros commenced operation, replacing the Institute of Issue. • _„ f COMOROS . A Comoros and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require exchange control approval, but capital r . .. ,, - j receipts from such countries normally are permitted f * j r Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment, 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position on December 31, 2981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of the Congo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs be- tween the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. Payments to France and its Overseas Departments and Territories, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries (see section on Administration of Control, below), as well as the purchase of those countries' banknotes and travelers checks, are subject to a com- mission of 0.75 per cent, with a minimum charge of CFAF 75; exempt from this commission are payments of the State, the Postal Administration, and the BEAC, salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad, expenditures of official missions abroad, scholarships of persons studying or training abroad, and debt service payments due from companies that have entered into an agree- ment with the Congo. Most payments to other foreign countries and credits to Foreign Accounts in Francs are subject to a commission of 1 per cent or, for foreign exchange purchased by the Diamond Purchase Office, 0.50 per cent; these commissions are subject to a minimum of CFAF 100. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Payments to the following countries, although sub- ject to declaration, are unrestricted: (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the Comoros, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l t a ). Settlements and investment transactions with all foreign countries, however, are subject to control. Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than the Congo. The Office of External Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Min- ister of Finance, who has delegated his approval autho- rity to the Office of External Financial Relations. All exchange transactions must be effected through autho- 1The CFA f ranc c ircu la t ing in the Congo is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, and Gabon. rized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Commerce, except those for gold, which are granted by the Office of External Financial Relations. Prescription of Currency Since the Congo is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with the People's Republic of China are made through spe- cial accounts established under a b i la teral payments agreement.2 Settlements with all other countries are u sua l ly made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French f rancs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting of BEAC banknotes to Foreign Accounts in Francs is pe rm i t ted when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Brazzaville by the foreign correspondent of an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts f rom all sources require prior authorization. There is an indicative annual import program which distinguishes between five zones: ( 1) the countries of the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC); (2) France; (3) other countries of the French Franc Area; (4) EC countries other than France; and (5) all remaining countries. All imports under this program require licenses. The import pro- gram does not include petroleum imports, for which a jo int quota is set for the countries of the UDEAC. Also outside the program are imports for the Govern- ment under foreign aid and bilateral payments agree- ments, and imports made by the Office National du Commerce (OFNACOM ). OFNACOM has a monopoly over certain import items, including hardware, rice, canned tomatoes, salt, and salted fish from all sources, certain cotton piece goods from Japan, and certain other textiles from the People's Republic of China. The quotas for non-EC countries may be used to import goods o r ig ina t ing in any country outside the French Franc Area. All import transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports f rom coun- 2 There are inoperative payments agreements with Bulgaria and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO tries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require the visa of the Foreign Trade Bureau and the Office of External Financial Relations. The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. All imports must be insured with the state insurance company, Societe d'Assurances et de Reassurances du Congo (SARC). To implement this measure, the Con- golese Customs Service releases imports only af ter an insurance certificate issued by the SARC has been pro- duced. There has been some accumulation of arrears on external payments owing to the imposition of statu- tory ceilings on central bank credit to the Government and an ensuing shortage of domestic currency with which to purchase foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely provided they have been declared and are made through an authorized intermediary; those to other foreign countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and royal- ties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to foreign countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zai're may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under ten) or CFAF 10,000 if the duration of the trip is less than 24 hours, for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to the Congo must be sur- rendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip; additional amounts may be authorized in appropriate cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is prohibited. There are special facilities for travelers to Kinshasa who request no foreign means of payments other than ZaYrian banknotes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Congo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents traveling to France (as defined above ), Monaco, or an Operations Account country may take out CFAF 25,000 (CFAF 12,500 for children under ten) in BE AC banknotes. Resident and non- resident travelers going to foreign countries other than 134 France (as defined above), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zai're may freely take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BE AC banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require prior authorization. Most exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely; among the exceptions are commodities exported by the Na t ional Marketing Office for Agricultural Prod- ucts (Office Na t ional de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles) and by the National Marketing Office for Timber (Office Congolais du Bois). Proceeds f rom exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally w i th in 180 days of arr ival of the commodities at their destination. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in a month of the due date. All export transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of fore ign countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets must be collected when due and surrendered w i th in a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin). Capital Movements of funds between the Congo and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free, though ex post declarations are required. Such movements to countries that are not members of the BEAC are subject to a commission of 0.25 per cent. Most international capital transac- tions are subject to prior authorization. Capital trans- fers abroad require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad generally are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign coun- tries or nonresidents that are held in the Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with autho- rized banks in the Congo. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, and offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Direct investments abroad 3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance; the fu ll or partial liquida- tion of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in the Congo4 require prior approval by the Minister of Finance, unless they involve the creation of a mixed- economy enterprise. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Congo must be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Congolese invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in the Congo, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in the Congo requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) borrow- ing backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Govern- ment and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offer ing for sale in the Congo has already been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. How- ever, loans contracted by registered banks and small loans, where the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower, are exempt f rom this requirement. The contracting of loans that are f ree of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be reported to the Office of External Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents is subject to 8 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Congo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Congo. 4 Including those involving the t rans fer between nonresidents, of funds in the form of participation in the capital of a Congolese company. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO exchange control, and all lending in CFA francs to non- residents is prohibited, unless special authorization is obtained from the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this au thor iza t ion: ( 1) loans in foreign currencies granted by registered banks; (2) other loans in foreign currencies when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans does not exceed the equiva- lent of CFAF 5 million for any one lender; and ( 3) for- eign currency loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 per cent a year and whose ma tu r i ty is two years or less. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of External Financial Relations within 20 days. Under the Investment Code of April 26, 1973, a num- ber of privileges may be granted to approved foreign investments. The Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. Gold By v ir tue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold gold in the form of coin, art objects, or jewelry; however, they require the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance to hold gold in any other form or to import or export gold in any form, f rom or to any other country. Exempt from the latter requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BE AC, and (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t ic les ). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position on December 31, 2981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican Colon. A limited number of transactions are conducted at the official exchange rate of 0 20 per US$1.1 In principle, most other transactions are conducted at a flexible exchange rate determined by authorized deal- ers in the banking market .2 Tourist transactions as well as other transactions not accommodated through the above-mentioned channels may be conducted at a fluctuating exchange rate in the parallel exchange mar- ket. The spread between buying and selling rates in the banking exchange market is legally limited to 00.18. The closing selling and buying rates in this market for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1981 were (236.18 and 036, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currenc ies3 are also quoted, with daily quotations based on the relationship of those currencies against the U.S. dollar expressed in Costa Rican colones. The selling and buying rates in the parallel exchange market at the end of Decem- ber 1981 were 039 and 038.50, respectively, per US$1. There are taxes and subsidies on purchases and sales of foreign exchange, as follows: Effective from December 10, 1981 for a period of one year, exchange subsidies are granted to certain payments, amounting to 0 10 per US$1 in the case of student remittances abroad at a rate other than the official rate and equal to the fu ll difference between the banking and official market exchange rates in the case of external debt service payments of certain cooperatives. Costa Rica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank. No licenses are required to buy or sell foreign exchange that is not subject to mandatory sale to the bank ing system. 1 On the selling side, the eligible transactions are imports of medicine and medical equipment by the Social Security Institute; petroleum imports by the state oil company, up to US$30.5 million through the end of January 1982; wheat imports by millers, up to US$3.7 million; and 50 per cent of remittances to registered students abroad up to December 31, 1981. On the buying side, 10 per cent of export proceeds must be surrendered at this rate. 2 In the sale of foreign exchange, authorized dealers are required to give priority to imports of raw materials and agricultural inputs, medicines, basic grains, petroleum and its derivatives, spare parts, expenditures abroad of the Center for the Promotion of Exports and Investments (CENPRO) to maintain its offices abroad, payments for royalties and patents relating to industrial manufacturing, imports within the framework of free trade treaties for which payments are made through the corresponding clearing house, external debt payments to multilateral institutions, expenditures abroad of unregistered stu- dents, payments for medical services abroad, and documented service payments on private debt. 3 Guatemalan quetzales, Honduran lempiras, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salvadoran colones. 136 Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Payments to Poland may be made th rough special U.S. dollar accounts established under a payments agreement with that country. Following the exchange measures introduced in December 1980, it was decided that payments to other member countries of the Central American Com- mon Market (CACM )4 in respect of t rade and trade- related invisibles would con t inue to be made in Costa Rican colones through the Central American Clearing House, but must be made by means of checks and d ra f ts denominated in U.S. dollars and drawn on Costa Rican banks. Payments to and from Colombia in respect of commercial operations, services, and capital may be made in U.S. dollars th rough a recipro- cal credit arrangement between the member central banks of the Central American C lea r ing House and the Bank of the Republic of Colombia. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade, invisibles, and capital may also be made in U.S. dollars under an agreement between the member central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Bank of Mexico. Imports and Import Payments There is no import licensing, and all import pay- ments may be made freely, subject to submission of evidence of prior registration (see be low ), except for goods originating in CACM countries or Panama. However, certain imports from CACM countries require prior authorization, and imports made on a barter basis require a barter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the Ministry of Economy, Industry, and Commerce. To be eligible for foreign exchange, orders for imports valued at over US$300 must be registered with the Central Bank upon confirmation by the foreign supplier, unless the goods originate in CACM countries or Panama. Imports from South A f r ica are prohibited. In addition to any applicable customs du ty, the fol- lowing taxes are levied on imports: ( 1) a stamp tax of 3 per cent of the customs du ty on commodities not covered by the common external t a r i ff of the CACM; (2) a sales tax of 8 per cent ad va lorem, f rom which certain essential items are exempt; ( 3) a selective con- sump t ion tax w i th a range of 6-100 per cent ad valorem on certain imports; and (4) a surcharge of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value, w i th the exception of imports origi- na t ing in CACM countries or Panama and made under prevailing agreements. There is also a small consular tax on certain imports. Under the provisions of the Central Ame r ican Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Costa Rica grants du ty 4 El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exonerations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved indus tr ial firms. Medicine and medical equipment imported by the Social Security Ins t i tu te, petroleum imports by the state oil company up to US$30.5 million through the end of Janua ry 1982, and wheat imports by millers up to US$3.7 million are eligible for foreign exchange financing through the official market; all other imports must be financed through the bank ing ma rket or the parallel marke t. Payments for Invisibles Withholding taxes of 15 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively, are levied on rem i t tances abroad of divi- dends and interest; interest on cer ta in bo r row ing abroad (e.g., from government b ank s) is exempt. Costa R ican nationals traveling abroad by air must pay an exit visa ( 0 8 4) and an airport tax (US$7.00); Costa Rican nationals who reside abroad must pay, in add i t ion, a consular fee of US$5. For residents covered by Law No. 4812 (pensionados rentistas) and residents not so covered, the payment d i f f e rs from the na t ional one. Costa Rican d ip loma ts and certain Peace Corps offi- cials pay an exit fee of only <t 6, provided the ir passport states that they are exempt from the above charges. Civil servants and s tuden ts are not exempt f rom these payments unless so determined by the M in is t ry of Finance or the Migration Council. Costa R ican minors are subject to all the above paymen ts, except for depen- dents of d ip loma t ic parents, who pay only the (Z 6 exit fee. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to ensure that exchange proceeds are surrendered to authorized deal- ers; the latter sell to the Central Bank all of their purchases (10 per cent of export proceeds) at the offi- cial rate and 6 per cent of their purchases in the bank- ing market at the free market rate on the following business day. Exporters of non trad i t ional commodities are entitled to tax credit certificates (CATs, which are freely negotiable) corresponding to 12-15 per cent of the f.o.b value. In addition, exporters of non trad i t ional commodities eligible for CATs may also receive certifi- cates for increases in exports (CIEX) for 1-10 per cent of the increase in the f.o.b. value of exports over the preceding ca lendar year; the certificates are redeem- able against cash at the Central Bank. Exchange taxes on export proceeds are applied at the rate of 10 per cent of the difference between the bank ing rate and the official rate in the case of traditional exports,5 and 5 per cent of the same d i f fe rence for non-traditional exports to the CACM countries and Panama. Licenses from the Central Bank are necessary for the exportation of merchandise. In addition to the 5 Traditional exports were defined to include coffee, bananas, tobacco, certain uncut hides, beef, raw shrimp, logs and sawn wood, unprocessed minerals, specified live animals, and exports of certain categories of enterprises. COSTA RICA export license from the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: strategic materials, such as armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of non fe r rous base metals ( f rom the M in is try of Econ- omy, Industry, and Commerce); sugar ( f rom the Agri- cu l tural Industrial Board for Sugarcane); beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred and other cattle (from the Na t ional Council of P roduc t ion ); air- planes ( f r om the Civil Aviation Board and the Min- istry of Economy, Industry, and Commerce); Ind ian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay ( f rom the Na t ional Mu seum ); tobacco ( f rom the Tobacco Defense Bo a rd ); lumber, root of ipecacuanha, certain livestock, and animals and plants of forest origin ( f rom the M in is try of Agriculture and L ives tock ); and coffee ( f r om the Coffee O f f ice ); in add i t ion, when there is a l ien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank gran ts an export license. Exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be sur- rendered within 15 days f rom the date of receipt or, if the goods were sold on credit, upon expiry of the term of the credit. Foreign-owned banana companies that have contracts with the Government must surrender the ir net export proceeds, which are calculated by deducting f rom their gross export proceeds ( 1) profits obtained dur ing the year f rom their transactions in Costa Rica; (2) the allowance for depreciation on their investment in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in foreign currency; and (4) the cost of imports made during the year that were necessary for their normal business in Costa Rica. There are taxes on most exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are free f rom controls or restrictions. Capital All capital t rans fe rs between residents and nonresi- dents may be made freely. The Na t ional Council of External Financing is in charge of coordinating and negotiating all new fore ign loans on behalf of the Central Government, the centralized agencies, and enterprises of the public sector. Foreign and domestic capital transferred from abroad may be deposited as time deposits in U.S. dollars with agent banks in the fo rm of specified foreign currencies G or be invested in certificates of deposit denominated in colones; such funds, when they ma ture, are repaid in the currency in which the deposits were made. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coin or bars as part of the monetary reserves in accor- 6 Deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA dance with regulations established by its Board. Private physical and juridical persons may negotiate freely, at home or abroad, domestically produced gold (except national archaeological treasures), provided there is no infraction of international agreements. As in the case of other exports, licenses from the Central Bank are required for exports of gold. Gold may also be held in any form in Costa Rica. The Central Bank does not supply gold to artistic or professional users. Changes during 1981 March 9. A dual exchange market system was re-established on a temporary basis, with the Central Bank buying exchange at (215 per US$1 and the colon f luc tua t ing freely in the parallel marke t. It was also announced that export proceeds must be surren- dered to the Central Bank within 15 days from the date of receipt. March 31. For the external payments arrears of the private sector, the Central Bank introduced a system under which it would take the counterpart deposits in colones and, in re turn, issue negotiable certificates of deposit denominated in U.S. dollars; the certificates would carry a ma tur i ty of three years, redeemable in six semestral installments. April 2. The prior import deposit requirement was eliminated. July 11. In response to a Supreme Court ruling that the abandonment of the official exchange rate since the beginning of 1981 was unconstitutional, the Central Bank reintroduced the rate of 0 8.60 per US$1 for 15 minor imports. Payments for other imports could be made through either the bank ing market or the parallel market. On the same date, exporters were required to surrender 1 per cent of their proceeds at the official rate, and the balance at the bank ing rate. August 5. The list of import items eligible for for- eign exchange at the official rate was reduced to only medicine and medical equipment imported by the Costa Rican Social Security Institute. August 7. The following transactions were made eligible for foreign exchange at the official rate: (a) servicing of the external debt of government commer- cial banks; (b) remittances to students abroad who were registered as such with the Central Bank of Costa Rica prior to December 26, 1980; (c) medical expenses abroad; and (d) servicing of government external debt, and expenditures of the Ministry of Foreign Affa irs and Culture as contained in the 1981 budget of the Republic. August 19. Imports were made subject to a special tax equivalent to the difference in local currency between the amounts obtained at a given tariff rate by applying the official exchange rate and an exchange rate of C 15 per US$1 to a given foreign exchange value of imports. August 20. The sale of foreign exchange in the bank- 138 ing market for purposes of foreign travel was sus- pended. August 27. It was announced that only payments for priority imports (public or private) would be eligi- ble for foreign exchange at the prevailing bank ing rate, and the Central Bank would for an indef in i te period allocate foreign exchange for external debt service payments only to mu l t i la teral financial institutions. In addition, import licensing was introduced for the fol- lowing items: imports from member countries of CACM and Panama under free trade agreements; medicine; essential grains and edible oils; educational materials; fuel and lubricants; raw materials and semi- finished goods for agriculture and indus t ry; essential building materials; parts of machines; and capital goods and equipment intended for use in specific export- oriented projects. September 1. Importation of commodities specified in 42 import categories was prohibited. September 21. Selective consumer taxes in the range of 6-100 per cent ad valorem were introduced on certain imports falling under 66 categories of the Standard International Trade Classification (SITC). October 7. The Central Bank adjusted the value of the colon in the bank ing market f rom (Z 18.90 per US$1 (selling to (230.06 per US$1 (selling) and reaffirmed that henceforth the exchange rate in the banking market would be adjusted in line w i th market conditions. While external debt service and other for- eign payments of the Central Government up to the end of 1981, and certain approved foreign expendi- tures of the Social Security Institute, continued to be eligible for exchange transaction through the official market, the proportion of student remittances abroad eligible for conversion through the official market was reduced from 100 per cent to 50 per cent un t il the end of 1981, and the eligibility of debt service pay- ments by the state banks, payments for medical treat- ment abroad, and payments for 15 minor imports (the latter established on August 5, 1981) was discontinued. In addition, the proportion of export proceeds required to be surrendered in the official market was raised from 1 per cent to 4 per cent, and the Central Bank was empowered to vary this proportion from time to time to ensure the availability of sufficient foreign exchange for sales at the official rate. October 8. The computation basis for the import surcharge established on August 19, 1981 was changed to reflect the difference resulting from the application of the relevant import taxes at the official exchange rate and the same calculation using the banking market exchange rate prevailing on the business day preceding the import transaction concerned. October 20. The Central Bank ceased to determine the value of the colon in the banking market and allowed it to be set by the banks and other authorized dealers. In addition, the required proportion of export ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution receipts to be surrendered to authorized dealers in the official market was raised to 10 per cent, and it was stipulated that 6 per cent of authorized dealers' pur- chases in the banking market should be sold to the Central Bank at the free market rate on the following business day; the Central Bank stood ready to buy the daily excess of purchases over sales by authorized dealers in the free exchange market, as well as any excess in settlements in Central American currencies through the Central American Clearing House. A maximum spread of (20.18 between the buy ing and selling rates in the free exchange market was prescribed. The import licensing system, which was established in late August 1981, was abolished, and importers were again required only to register their imports for statis- tical purposes; imports of automobiles and capital goods (except in connection with export promotion projects or as otherwise approved by the Central B a n k ), for which import licenses had been suspended since August 27, 1981, were explicitly prohibited. Autho- rized dealers were directed to give priority in exchange sales to imports of raw materials and agricultural inputs, medicines, basic grains, petroleum and its derivatives, and spare parts. November 5. The priority list established on Octo- ber 20, 1981 for exchange sales by authorized dealers was expanded to include the following items: (a) expenditures abroad of the Center for the Promotion of Exports and Investments (CENPRO) to ma in ta in its offices abroad, (b) payments for royalties and patents related to industrial manufac tur ing, (c) imports within the framework of free trade treaties, the payments for which are made through the corresponding clearing house, (d) external debt service payments to multi- lateral institutions, and (e) expenditures abroad of unregistered students. November 16. The Central Bank extended the list of import items eligible for f inanc ing through the offi- cial market to include wheat imports by millers up to US$3.7 million. November 18. The supplementary import surcharge was abolished, and a method was devised by which the prevailing bank ing market rate would be legally applied to assess the value of import duties. November 26. The Central Bank added two items to the list of priority imports and other payments, namely, payments for medical services abroad and documented service payments on private debt. At the end of each working day, authorized dealers must establish whether their foreign exchange position is in deficit or surplus in respect of the priority payments. Authorized dealers in surplus can provide foreign exchange to those in deficit so as to fu lf i ll pending obligations in the follow- ing working day. Any foreign exchange remaining after interdealer transactions in respect of priority pay- ments may be used for other documented items. November 27. The Legislative Assembly approved COSTA RICA a law by which the official exchange rate was devalued f rom 08.60 per US$1 (selling) to 020.16 per US$1 (selling) effective December 10, 1981. In addition, exchange taxes on export proceeds were established for a period of one year, initially amoun t ing to 15 per cent of the difference between the applicable bank ing mar- ket rate and a rate of 0 8.60 per US$1 in the case of traditional exports,7 and 4Vi per cent of the same difference in the case of nontrad it ional exports to the CACM countries. For student remittances abroad, the subsidy amounted to 0 10 per US$1. For external debt service payments of certain cooperatives, the fu ll difference between the bank ing and official market exchange rates was subsidized, whereas amortization by private individuals or companies of the obligations denominated in foreign currency and payable in Costa Rica and contracted prior to December 26, 1980 was subsidized up to (Z 8 per US$1, w i th a max imum of 0 100 million. The following additional measures were announced on November 27: (a) authorization for investment companies and exchange houses to engage in foreign exchange dealings in the bank ing marke t, (b) the abolition of authorization in certain cases to acquire foreign exchange at a preferen t ial rate as granted by Law No. 5519 of 1974, and (c) instruction to the Permanent Commission for Fiscal A f fa i rs to pre- pare within 15 working days a proposal to increase, inter alia, taxes on nonessential luxury items, ma in ly imports. December 9. The Central Bank of Costa Rica extended the list of imports eligible for payment through the official market to include crude petroleum purchased by the National Petroleum Corporation (RECOPE) in an amount of up to US$30.5 million through the end of January 1982. December 18. Changes were made in existing regu- lations as follows: (a) the exchange taxes on export proceeds imposed on November 27 were reduced to 10 per cent for traditional exports and raised to 5 per cent for nontraditional exports to the CACM countries and Panama; (b) exchange subsidies were abolished in respect of amortization payments by private individuals and obligations denominated in foreign currency and payable in Costa Rica; (c) fertilizers and sugar were eliminated from the list of trad i t ional exports; and (d) the tax base for the exchange taxes introduced on November 27, 1981 was changed from the d ifferen t ial between the bank ing rate and a rate of 0 8.60 per US$1 to the d ifferen t ial between the bank ing rate and 020 per US$1. December 24. The regulations p roh ib i t ing the impor- tation of capital goods and motor vehicles with an engine capacity exceeding 1,250 cubic centimeters or parts thereof for local assembly were revoked. 7 Traditional exports were defined to include coffee, bananas, sugar, tobacco, certain uncut hides, beef, raw shrimp, fertilizers, logs and sawn wood, unprocessed minerals, specified live animals, and exports of certain categories of enterprises. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus Pound. Cyprus follows a flexible exchange rate policy. The exchange rate for the Cyprus pound is adjusted daily with the aim of maintaining its effective relationship with the curren- cies of the ma in trad ing partners. On December 31, 1981 the official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were <£C 0.4323 and <£C 0.4329, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank of Cyprus also quotes daily buy ing and selling rates for the deutsche mark, the Greek drachma, and the pound sterling. It also quotes indicative rates for other foreign currencies.1 There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The Central Bank offers authorized dealers facilities for forward purchases and sales of U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for periods of up to six months, in respect of trade transactions only. Rates for longer periods are available for exports, on request. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank, and trade controls by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Au thor i ty to approve certain applications for the allocation of foreign exchange, within the scope of instructions issued by the Central Bank, has been delegated to authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to such countries may be received in Cyprus pounds from an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus may ma in ta in with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated External Accounts, or foreign cur- rency accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments f rom residents of Cyprus, with transfers from other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales by nonresidents of any foreign currency. External Accounts and foreign cur- rency accounts may be debited for payments to resi- dents and nonresidents, for transfers to other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and for pur- chases of any foreign currency; however, the delivery of foreign currency notes to nonresidents in Cyprus against External Accounts or foreign currency accounts is pro- 1 Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs (commercial), Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Cyprus pound. 140 hibited, w i th the exception of sales for travel purposes to nonresident individuals, to members of foreign embassies, and to members of the UN forces in Cyprus (up to the equivalent of «£C 75 a trip). Blocked Accounts are ma in ta ined in the name of a nonresident for certain funds of a capital na tu re that may not be transferred outside Cyprus under the exist- ing exchange control regulations. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or be invested in government securities or government-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds so invested may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary or be credited to an External Account w i thout prior reference to the Central Bank. Funds can be released from Blocked Accounts in the following circumstances: on application by the autho- rized bank concerned acting on behalf of the nonresi- dent account holder, the Central Bank may authorize the release of blocked f u n ds for (1) reasonable educa- tional expenses in Cyprus of the account holder's chil- dren; (2) reasonable living expenses of the account holder while on a visit to Cyprus; and (3) donations to charitable institutions in Cyprus. In addition to any releases under (1), (2), and (3), amounts up to a level determined from time to time may become eligible for release. The Central Bank is prepared to permit the release of blocked funds to each nonresident holder up to <£C 1,000 in any calendar year. Imports and Import Payments The goods which require import licenses are specified in the Import (Regulation and Control) Orders issued under the Import Laws by the M in is ter of Commerce and Industry. The regulation, control, or restriction of such imports is done in order to protect the local indus- trial or agricultural production. For most goods subject to an import license, such a license is freely granted. Importers should not, however, enter in to any commit- ment without securing the required import license. This license automatically carries the au tho r i ty for e f fec t ing the relative payment. Goods originating from Bu lgar ia, the People's Repub- lic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. and not appearing in the above-mentioned Import Orders may only be imported direct f rom these coun- tries and not through a third country. Import licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry are subject to the requirements of other laws and regula- tions, e.g., medical, health, veterinary, phytopathologi- cal, etc. Ind iv idual import licenses are not required for bona fide unsolicited gifts (which may not be sold) up to <£C 25 in value, for returned goods, or for certain special import transactions. Payments for imports may be made w i thout prior ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution approval f rom the Exchange Control Section of the Central Bank after arrival of the goods or af ter receipt of a fu ll set of shipping documents. Advance payments require prior approval from the Exchange Control Sec- tion, except for imports whose value does not exceed £C 100. Payments for imports free f rom licensing requirements effected af ter 200 days f rom the date of shipment requ ire the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Paymen ts for imports requiring a license must be made w i th in the time limits specified on the license, except with the approval of the Central Bank. An import surcharge of 3.5 per cent ad valorem is levied on all imports except food, feeds tu f f, pharma- ceuticals, and goods imported by the Government. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Profits, dividends, and interest f rom approved foreign invest- ments may be t rans fe r red abroad, a f t er payment of any charges and taxes due. Insurance prem iums due to foreign insurance companies are remittable a f ter deduc- tion of all expenses and contingencies in respect of any claims. Family maintenance remittances are allowed on application accompanied by documentary evidence. For certain categories of payments, limits are imposed, gen- erally only for the purpose of preventing illicit capital outflow. For s tudy abroad, allowances normally are granted only for study at colleges, universities, and other educational ins t i tu t ions recommended by the Ministry of Education. Exchange allowances depend on the cost of living and tu i t ion in the respective locations. For studies in the Eastern Mediterranean countries, member countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assis- tance, the Middle East, and Yugoslavia, the max imum yearly allowance for living expenses is <£C 1,400; for Canada and the United States, <£C 2,700; for the United Kingdom, £C 2,500; and for all other countries, £C 2,300. Additional allowances are granted for pay- ment of tu i t ion. For tourist travel, the limit is <£C 3003 a person annually; for business travel up to £C 100 a day is granted in addition to the tourist allowance, while for purposes of medical trea tment the amount is un l im i ted but based on actual expenses. Resident travel- ers may take out Cyprus currency notes up to <£C 10 and foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of £C 75, the latter as part of their annual basic travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out <£C 10 in Cyprus currency notes and any amount of foreign currency notes that they brought into Cyprus. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to control by the Cyprus Potato Marke t ing Board, and those of wheat, barley, and maize to control by the Cyprus Grain Com- mission. Exports of cement are subject to a license for 3 The annual limit on travel allowance was increased to £C 350 on January 1, 1982. CYPRUS the purpose of ensuring adequate domestic supply. All exports are subject to licensing when the f.o.b. value exceeds <£C 100 to ensure repatriation of the sales pro- ceeds in an appropriate manner (see section on Prescrip- tion of Currency, above). Export proceeds must be surrendered w i thout delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank w i thout delay. Persons entering Cyprus may b r ing in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to «£C 10 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Exchange control is exercised over all capital receipts or payments. Capital receipts must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer; paymen ts of a capital na tu re to any destination require prior approval. Outward port- fo l io investment is not normally permitted, and on ly specified types of ou tward direct inves tment (e.g., for export promotion) are approved. Foreign investments in Cyprus by nonresidents require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. In considering applications due regard is given to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings, introduction of know-how, the num- ber of persons to be employed, and in general the bene- f i ts accruing to the national economy. Proceeds from the liquidation of approved fore ign investments may be repatriated in fu ll at any time, af ter payment of any charges and taxes due. Residents of Cyprus (Cypriots or foreign nationals) who take up residence outside Cyprus may t rans fer abroad up to <£C 5,000. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. The transfer abroad of funds resulting from estates and intestacies and of the sales proceeds of real estate is l im i ted to <£C 1,000, with any excess amount to be credited to a Blocked Account. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require prior permission from the authorities. In prin- ciple, all securities held abroad by residents are subject to registration. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The export of gold requires the permis- sion of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1981 During 1981 the buying and selling rates for the Cyprus pound were adjusted by small amounts at 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS relatively frequent intervals, from <£C 0.3646 and «£C 0.3650, respectively, per US$1 on December 31, 1980 to «£C 0.4323 and <£C 0.4329, respectively, per US$1 on December 31, 1981. August 1. The allowance for educational expenses abroad (in addition to a tuition allowance) was raised f rom a range of <£C 1,300 to <£C 2,100 to a range of £C 1,400 to <£C 2,700 a person a year. September 19. The bilateral payments agreement with the People's Republic of China was terminated. 142 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Denmark is the Danish Krone. Den- mark participates with Belgium, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ire land, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Ne ther lands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Mone tary System (EMS ). In accordance with this agreement, Denmark m a in t a ins the spot exchange rates between the Danish krone and the currencies of the other par t ic ipan ts w i th in ma rg ins of 2.25 per cent (in the case of the I ta l ian lira, 6 per cent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the National Bank of Den- mark ( the central b a n k) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other pa r t ic ipa t ing states in un l im- ited amoun ts at specified in terven t ion rates. On Decem- ber 31, 1981 these rates were as fo l low s :l Specified In terven t ion Rates Per: Danish Kroner Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Ne ther lands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire 19.8520 335.74 131.04 303.74 1,182.14 0.64580 18.9785 320.98 125.28 290.38 1,130.13 0.57285 The par t ic ipan ts in the EMS are not ma in ta in ing the exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctua- tions in exchange rates, the in terven t ion currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Selling rates for 18 foreign currencies are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.2 On December 31, 1981 the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was DKr 7.3250 per US$1. There *New intervention rates came in tc follows: > effect on February 22, 1982 as Danish Kroner Upper limit Lower limit 18.726 17.903 346.13 330.91 135.09 129.16 313.14 299.36 1,218.70 1,165.09 0.59056 0.66580 Specified In terven t ion Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire 2 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Finnish m a r k k a a, French f rancs, Icelandic k ronu r, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Au thor ized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage both spot and fo rwa rd. Spot transac t ions are defined as transactions where actual delivery takes place w i th in two bank ing days; transactions that ma tu re in three b ank ing days or more are defined as fo rwa rd t ran sac- tions. Spot transactions in all currencies, inc lud ing Danish kroner, and forward transac t ions invo lv ing pu r- chases of foreign currencies against sales of fo re ign cur- rencies may be concluded freely w i th domestic and fore ign banks. Forward transac t ions that invo lve Danish kroner may also be concluded, but for not more than two years; furthermore, special rules apply for the for- ward sale of fore ign currencies aga inst Danish k roner to fo re ign correspondents and for fo rwa rd dealings against Danish kroner w i th nonres ident customers. For- ward p rem iums and discounts are generally le ft to the in te rp lay of market forces. Forward t ransac t ions w i th residents that involve Danish kroner must cover con- trac tual payments for goods and services or paymen ts on authorized loans and credits, the paymen ts covered being due not more than two years f rom the date of the fo rwa rd contract. Forward transactions with resident customers, which do not involve Danish kroner, must also cover either claims or liabilities in one of the two currencies concerned, but the requirements w i th respect to contractual payments are less strict in this case. Denmark forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denma rk, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank and the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., most banks, some savings banks, and some stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. The exchange regulations generally do not apply to ind iv idual transactions and transfers of DKr 7,000 or less. Transfers of up to DKr 7,000 may, in any case, be made without delivery of forms. Per- mission, when required, for foreign direct investments in Denmark has to be obtained f rom the M in is try of Indus try. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Indus try, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Payments to or f rom fore ign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Danish kroner. 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Krone Accounts are convertible. The only exceptions are Emigrant Accounts. Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign banks, insurance companies, and shipping companies, and for institutions of the EC. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, provided that the total credit balance of the accounts of an individual nonresident does not exceed DKr 200,000; any amount in excess of DKr 200,000 must be transferred abroad within three days. Special accounts not subject to a max imum balance may be opened for nonresidents, provided they are credited only with the liquidation proceeds or capital earnings from certain investments in Denmark and some other funds. Emigrant Accounts are kept by authorized exchange dealers for holding liquid assets owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants, to the extent that the amounts exceed the exchange allowance of DKr 40,000 available to each person at the time of departure. Certain pay- ments to residents may be made freely from these accounts, and the balances are in any case made con- vertible one year after departure. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities, except for textiles, are free of licensing from all sources. For textiles, a common EC system of export/import licenses has now been estab- lished for almost all countries exporting low-priced textiles. The only commodities that require a license when originating in or purchased from member coun- tries of the EC are agricultural products, alcoholic beverages, and unwrought and semimanufactured gold. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other non-state trad ing, non-EC country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., or Viet Nam. Payments for imports and the related shipping expenses may be made freely within five years (eight and a half years for ships and eight years for aircraft, heavy machinery, and ma jor installations purchased for an amount of DKr 1 million or more) from the end of the month in which the goods were cleared through customs, provided that the terms of payment conform to normal commercial practice in the trade concerned. Repayments of debts must not be made more than 30 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the con- tract (or before the latest customary date in the t rade ). However, commercial credits can be repaid at any time if a discount is obtained as a result, provided the pay- ment is made to the supplier and conforms to normal commercial practice in the trade concerned. Prepay- ments linked to trade in goods and services that are in 144 conformity with normal commercial practice may be granted to nonresidents up to one year prior to the expected date of import or the expected date of per- formance of the service; the permitted period is up to five years for capital goods (ships, a ircraf t, heavy machinery, and major installations) when purchased for an amount of DKr 1 million or more. All other advance payments for imports require prior approval by the National Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments by residents for most invisibles may be made freely; only a few cases require approval from the National Bank. Authorized banks are empowered to allow the t rans fer up to DKr 40,000 a person a year of foreign nationals' wages and salaries earned in Den- ma rk, provided that the person concerned has not resided in Denmark for more than three years and the transfer is made to the remitter's own account abroad. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated freely and may be obtained for travel to any country, but not earlier than 30 days before the trip if the amount applied for exceeds the equivalent of DKr 7,000. Travelers may take out freely DKr 7,000 in Danish banknotes and coin, and any amount in fore ign bank- notes or other means of paymen t. Nonresidents may, in addition, export any amount of Danish banknotes and coin derived f rom sales of foreign currency in Den- mark or brought in by them when they entered Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds Gold is the only commodity that requires a license when exported to member countries of the EC. With respect to other destinations, except for certain items subject to strategic controls, export licenses are required only for waste and scrap of certain metals and monetary gold. Export proceeds must be transferred to Denmark without undue delay unless the National Bank permits otherwise. However, this obligation does not apply to amounts which are to be used to settle or to offset certain commercial and capital payments; otherwise, for- eign exchange receipts must either be offered for sale to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, or kept in an account with an authorized exchange dealer for a maximum period of 30 days. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the Na t ional Bank per- mits otherwise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, with exceptions similar to those that apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may bring in any amount of Danish banknotes and coin, foreign banknotes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Both inward and outward transfers of capital and all borrowing and lending between residents and non- residents are subject to exchange control and may be restricted. Licensing practice vis-a-vis residents of member countries of the EC is based on EC directives on capital movements, subject to certain exceptions, and licensing practice in respect of residents of the rest of the world as a rule is similar. Residents have an obligation to repatriate proceeds realized from the sale or liquidation of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, or to redeem upon maturity, or to repur- chase any Danish securities denominated exclusively in Danish kroner as well as the transferor's own bonds irrespective of denomination (provided these bonds are quoted on an authorized stock exchange ab road ). Resi- dents may lend amounts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a calendar year to subsidiary companies (direct invest- ments of loan capital) or in the case of resident persons to a member of the resident's family. Contributions from a parent enterprise to a branch may not be made as loans or grants but are treated as direct investment of equity capital. Portfolio investment abroad is gen- erally not allowed. However, residents may buy foreign securities that do not represent direct investments in foreign commercial or industrial enterprises, provided that these are acquired on the basis of a subscription right to shares or the like owned by the resident con- cerned, or that the resident furnishes proof that he has sold foreign securities to a nonresident for a correspond- ing amount within the last 12 months. Residents may subscribe to or purchase foreign bonds with an original maturity above two years, listed on a stock exchange and issued by specified international organizations of which Denmark is a member. The purchases have to be made through an authorized exchange dealer against cash, and sale or redemption does not entitle the seller to reinvest the proceeds in other foreign securities. No special permission is required for residents to make transfers abroad, within certain limits, in con- nection with most direct investments or with private acquisitions of real estate abroad. The limits are DKr 200,000 a year for each foreign enterprise for direct investments of equity capital.3 Private acquisition of real estate for noncommercial purposes and expenses related to building and construction work on such prop- erty are permitted within a limit of DKr 250,000 for each piece of property. Direct investments abroad by residents are normally approved in accordance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the EC and the OECD. The private acquisition of real estate in excess of DKr 250,000 is approved in accordance with Den- mark's obligations as a member of the EC. Authorized exchange dealers do not need special permission to grant 8 A license is required, however, for investments in firms which exclusively or largely are engaged in capital investments or financing. DENMARK loans to nonresidents for the financing of payments to residents for purchases of Danish goods and services, provided normally that the loan is granted directly to the foreign purchaser; in those cases where the National Bank's approval is required, this is generally given when the loans are customary in the trade concerned. Permis- sion from the National Bank is required for most other transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents. Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 for each person at the time of departure. The remaining liquid assets must be credited to an Emigrant Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year af ter departure, or earlier if the emigrant can show that he has taken up permanent residence abroad with the approval of the relevant foreign authorities. Inward direct investment in the form of equity capital may be made without any special license if the invest- ment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise concerned by more than DKr 1 million in each calendar year. However, investments in firms that are engaged exclusively or largely in capital invest- ments abroad or the financing of nonresidents continue to be subject to license. In addition, a license is required if the investment is undertaken by a foreign firm in which a resident directly or indirectly owns an interest representing a direct investment. Direct investments must be notified to the National Bank if they are made without a special license. Inward direct investments in the form of loans with a maturity of at least five years also are exempt from special licenses within certain limits. Other direct investments by nonresidents require permission from the exchange control authorities, which is granted liberally in accordance with Denmark's obli- gations as a member of the EC and the OECD. The purchase by a nonresident of real property in Denmark normally requires a special license from the Ministry of Justice; permission is usually granted readily where real estate is to be used for industrial or similar enterprises. The sale to nonresidents of Danish bonds listed on a stock exchange does not require a special license, except that nonresidents are not permitted to purchase Danish Government krone bonds issued since 1975 w i thout permission from the National Bank. Such per- mission is not normally granted. Bonds denominated only in Danish kroner may be resold to residents. Non- residents may freely purchase or subscribe to shares that are quoted on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange, provided the purchase does not represent a direct investment. Residents may take up loans for up to five years (eight and a half years for ships and eight years for a ircraf t, heavy machinery, and major installations valued at DKr 1 million or more) f rom nonresidents to finance imports of commodities and services; they may also take up such loans to finance the granting of credits for exports of commodities and services, provided that the 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK credits are in conformity with normal commercial prac- tice and that the maturity of the loans does not exceed those for corresponding import loans. Enterprises in most industries may take up loans of up to DKr 20 mil- lion a borrower in a calendar year, provided that the ma tur i ty is at least five years and that the entire pro- ceeds are used only to finance fixed investment, either in the borrower's own business in Denmark or in a business undertaking in Denmark that is controlled by the borrower. Most business investments may form the basis of such loans, i.e., investments in business or indus- trial premises, and the acquisition of plant, machinery, and most transport equipment,4 provided that the assets are delivered w i th in 12 months prior to the date the loan is repatriated or are contracted to be delivered within 12 months following that date. Foreign borrow- ing by municipalities and public utility companies is subject to control by the appropriate department of the Government. Transfers of proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of all types of investments and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents other than new emigrants are permitted freely, irrespective of when and how the original investment was acquired. Interest and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received from persons and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid freely, with the proviso that loans and credits obtained from a nonresident generally must not be amortized or repaid in fu ll more than 30 days before the amortization pay- ment or repayment is due. Inheritances and g if ts to relatives may normally be transferred to any country without limitation. Individ- ual payments above DKr 7,000 as gifts to persons other than relatives are subject to approval from the National Bank. Imports and exports of securities are subject to regula- tion, the details of which are established by the National Bank. Bona fide imports of Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are permitted. Exports of Danish and foreign securities owned by nonresidents are nor- mally also permitted. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with the principal exception of bonds denominated wholly or partly in foreign currencies, be sold freely to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresi- dents may, with certain exceptions, be sold to residents only with the permission of the Na t ional Bank. Foreign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents, provided that the exchange control regulations are not circumvented. Authorized fore ign exchange dealers' commercial net balances in accounts with foreign countries may be negative to the extent of an amount equal to the loans 4 Investment in ships exceeding 100 gross registered tons and air- craft may be financed by such loans f rom nonresidents only with special approval from the National Bank. 146 which the authorized dealer has granted to residents in foreign currency in conform i ty with the exchange con- trol regulations and, for the purpose of financing Den- mark's foreign trade, w i th in a limit of DKr 3 million, but for banks and savings banks, the limit is up to 5 per cent of net worth. A positive net commercial foreign position is, in principle, allowed only so long as it does not exceed DKr 2 million or, for banks and savings banks, 15 per cent of the capital and reserves, whichever is higher. Gold Residents may free ly buy, hold, and sell gold coin in Denmark; they may also import gold coin. Otherwise, residents other than the mone tary au thor i t ies and autho- rized indus tr ial users are not allowed to acquire gold abroad. Imports and exports of gold normally require licenses issued by the Ministry of Indus try; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and indus- trial users. Imports of gold in bars or coin, unless made by or on behalf of the mone ta ry authorities, are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 22 per cent; domestic transactions in gold are also taxed at a rate of 22 per cent. There is no customs du ty on imports of gold in bars or coin. Changes during 1981 January 21. The ban on exports of goods and services to Iran was lifted. May 1. The following measures were in troduced: (a) regulations on the operation of the foreign exchange market were relaxed, such tha t, for the first time in 40 years, exchange rates would be set by dealers and commercial buyers of foreign exchange, and the rates quoted by the National Bank would hencefor th serve only as guidelines (previously, all transac t ions had to be carried out at fixed rates set at midday for major foreign currenc ies); (b) the limit beyond which indi- vidual transactions and remittances become subject to exchange regulations was raised from DKr 5,000 to DKr 7,000; and (c) the limit on foreign exchange allowance for acquisition of real estate abroad for non- commercial use was changed f rom DKr 60,000 a per- son to DKr 250,000 in each case. October 5. The intervention limits of the Danish krone within the EMS were changed w i th respect to the deutsche mark, French f ranc, Ne the r lands guilder, and Italian lira as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Danish Kroner Upper limit Lower limit 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Italian lire 335.74 131.04 303.74 0.64580 320.98 125.28 290.38 0.57285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The realignment involved a marginal reduction in the effective exchange rate of the krone. November 17. The minimum period (prior to repa- triation of loan) during which delivery must be made of capital assets financed by business investment loans of up to DKr 20 million was lengthened f rom 6 months to 12 months, DENMARK 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti Franc, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at DF 177.721 = US$1. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are DF 176.84 and DF 179.48, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies 1 are set by local banks on the basis of cross rates for the U.S. dollar in international markets. The posted rates are subject to commission charges of 1.5-6.0 per cent set by the commercial banks, depending on the currency concerned. In addi- tion, there is a fixed commission amoun t ing to DF 300 for transfers in Djibouti f rancs, DF 500 (or US$3.00) for transfers in foreign currencies, and zero for transfers in French francs. There are no taxes or subsidies, on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On September 19, 1980 Djibouti formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and no prescription of currency. The Djibouti f ranc is issued by the Djibouti Treasury, which operates in this respect as a currency board, issuing and redeeming the currency against receipts and payments of U.S. dollars. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Otherwise, no prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohib- 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. ited. Djibouti has a free trade zone in the port of Djibouti but the territory as a whole does not constitute a free zone. No customs du ty is charged on imports but, in practice, fiscal duties are levied by means of indirect taxes ( the general consumption t a x ). The rate of the general consumption tax is 26 per cent for lux- ury goods and 23 per cent for all other goods.2 Cer- ta in commodities, inc lud ing alcoholic beverages, petro- leum products, kha t, and tobacco, are subject to surtaxes at various rates. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, there are v i r tua l ly no restrictions on exports, with the exception of the prohibition on exports of live an ima ls. Export proceeds may be retained. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No restrictions are imposed on payments for or pro- ceeds from invisibles, except that payments must not be made to or received f rom Israel and South Africa. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Afr ica. Under the Investment Code of June 5, 1975, enterprises estab- lished or expanded to under take certain specific eco- nomic activities are eligible for various tax exemptions. Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 2 On January 1, 1982 a sur tax of 5 per cent came into effect over the existing tax on imports from EC countries. 148 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Dominica is the East Caribbean Dol- lar,1 which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1981 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.68 and EC$2.717, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Au thor i ty also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There is a 1 per cent tax on sales of foreign exchange. Dominica informed the Fund on December 13, 1979 that it formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the East Caribbean Currency Authority area. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) 2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened with the permis- sion of the Ministry of Finance. They are maintained in East Caribbean dollars and may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Ministry of Finance. They may be debited for payments to residents and for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel purposes. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Afr ica are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license. Certain other commodities require individual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. JT he East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of An t igua and Barbuda, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and Grenadines. 2 The CARICOM countries are An t igua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Mon tserra t, St. Kitts-Nevis- Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. s Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. Payments for Invisibles Under the Exchange Control Ordinance of 1973, payments for travel, medical treatment, education, sub- scription and membership fees, g if ts, and the transfer of profits abroad are subject to quan t i ta t ive limitations. All other payments exceeding EC$250 require approval by the Ministry of Finance. Residents of Dominica may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$15,000 a trip for travel outside the East Caribbean Currency Au tho r i ty area, subject to presentation of evidence of intention to travel. For busi- ness travel, additional allowances of fore ign exchange may be made available at a rate not exceeding EC$250 a day up to a maximum of EC$7,500 a tr ip. Residents traveling abroad for medical trea tment are eligible for an allowance of EC$350 a day up to a max imum of EC$20,000, as a supplement to the basic travel allow- ance, provided that a medical certificate is presented. Education allowances up to a maximum of EC$ 15,000 an academic year are permitted, to cover the cost of enrollment, tuition, accommodation, and books. Resi- dents may also make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total value of EC$ 1,000 a donor a year. Applications for additional amounts, or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation, are normally approved by the Ministry of Finance, provided that no unau tho- rized transfer of capital is involved. Profits may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation of registration by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue for income tax purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. The collection of export proceeds is mandatory. Export duties are levied on bananas, citrus f ru i ts, and other selected agricultural products. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles is mandatory. Travelers to Dominica may bring in freely notes and coin denom- inated in East Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward transfers of capital or profits require exchange control approval and are subject to payment of all tax liabilities. The purchase by residents of fore ign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not no rma l ly permitted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances, to non- residents require approval which norma l ly is granted subject to the payment of any taxes due. Emigrants leaving Dominica to take up residence outside the East 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA Caribbean Currency Au thor i ty area may t rans fer up to EC$20,000 ( for a husband, wife, and children under 18 years) from their assets, subject to income tax clearance. The Ministry of Finance will consider applications for remittance of amounts in excess of EC$20,000. Direct investment in Dominica by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remit- tance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in Dominica. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to f inance their domestic operations requires the approval of the M in is try. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Imports of gold, under license by the Ministry of Finance, are permitted for indus tr ial purposes only. Changes during 1981 August 1. A tax of 1 per cent was imposed on all sales of foreign exchange. 150 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Dominican Peso, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RD$1 = US$1. Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars between the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic and other banks take place at RD$1 = US$1, plus a commission of 0.03125 per cent. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public also take place at the rate of RD$1 = US$1, subject to banking commissions of 0.25 per cent buy- ing and 0.5 per cent selling; minor exchange transac- tions with tourists and other travelers from abroad are free of any banking commissions or other service charges. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also quoted, based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. All payments abroad at the official exchange rate must be made through banks; all exchange received must be sold to banks and banks are required to transfer to the Central Bank all exchange purchased. Payments for which foreign exchange is not sold at the official exchange rate are made through a tolerated parallel foreign exchange marke t, in which the exchange rate fluctuates freely; this market is supplied by for- eign exchange receipts that are not surrendered at the official exchange rate. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates in the parallel market were RD$1.29 and RD$1.30, respectively, per US$1. Dif- ferent effective exchange rates also arise from the requirement of a fu l ly prepaid letter of credit for cer- tain imports. On August 1, 1953 the Dominican Republic noti- fied the Fund that it forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange and trade control policy is determined by the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange control is administered by the Central Bank. The Monetary Board establishes import quotas, which are adminis- tered and controlled by the Foreign Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank. Certain releases of foreign exchange require the express authorization of the Pres- ident of the Republic. Export controls are administered by the Dominican Center for Export Promotion (CEDOPEX). Prescription of Currency Imports from the United States that are financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development must be made under special letters of credit. Certain import commissions must be paid in local currency only. Settlements with Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colom- bia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Mexico, and Venezuela may be made through special accounts established under reciprocal credit agreements within the framework of the Latin American Integration Association (LA IA ) .1 Import payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar must be made through a letter of credit. Otherwise, no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents regarding the currency to be used for payments to or f rom non- residents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of motor vehicles are prohibited, and no official foreign exchange is made available for imports of spare parts of motor vehicles. Importable com- modities may be classified broadly into the following categories: (1) imports for which the bank ing system sells foreign exchange in unrestricted amounts at the official exchange rate; (2) imports for which the bank- ing system sells foreign exchange only up to annual quotas; and (3) all other imports for which foreign exchange is purchased in the tolerated parallel market. All payments for imports at the official exchange rate require the approval of the Central Bank. Imports of raw materials at the official rate during 1981 were limited to 90 per cent of the average annual value in 1979 and 1980. Licensing controls are maintained over a few commodities for reasons of health or secu- rity. Insurance on imports must be contracted with companies authorized to operate in the Dominican Republic. Letters of credit for certain import payments are subject to full prepayment by the importer, and com- mercial banks are required to lodge with the Central Bank the peso equivalent of the value of the letters of credit. At the ma tu r i ty of import letters of credit not subject to prepayment and opened on or after September 1, 1980, the commercial banks' liabilities in respect of such transactions are subject to a 100 per cent reserve requirement collected by the Central Bank. At times, the Central Bank may delay payment of foreign exchange to commercial banks for previously approved requests for exchange. If the request was made for an import for which a commercial bank had opened a letter of credit, the commercial bank pro- vides the foreign exchange and extends a credit to the Central Bank for the amount involved. If the request was for a direct payment, a bank d ra f t, or a transfer of foreign exchange, the delay in payment represents a commercial arrear. At the end of 1981 such arrears represented about 12 weeks of imports. Imports are classified according to the Brussels tar iff nomenclature. Ad valorem and specific import duties 1 These agreements provide swing limits of varying amounts but settlements must be made in full at the end of every four months. 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC are levied on imports according to three general and numerous specific laws. Ad valorem import duties range f rom 20 per cent to 200 per cent, but the maxi- mum import duty is considerably higher (about 700 per cent) if specific duties are taken into account. An internal consumption tax of 20 per cent ad valorem and a 4 per cent surcharge on the total amount of all customs charges also are applied to all imports except those subject to the m in imum duty of 20 per cent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which ensures that the application is for a bona fide transaction. However, foreign exchange at the official rate is sold only for a limited number of payments for current invisibles. For some of these invisibles, official foreign exchange is sold up to specified limits. Nonresident foreign nationals work- ing in the Dominican Republic in industries and firms that contribute to the country's economic development may remit abroad at the official exchange rate up to 40 per cent of their incomes. For students pursuing approved courses, exchange requests for monthly ma in- tenance allowances are approved up to US$240 for Puerto Rico, up to US$300 for European countries, and up to US$270 for all other countries; an additional allocation of US$50 a month, irrespective of coun try, is available for postgraduate students. Exchange is also sold for remittances to authorized students to meet expenses for tuition, books, and other fees. Applications for exchange for contractual payments, such as interest and amortization payments on loans registered with the Central Bank, are approved in conformity with the terms of the contract. Transfers of profits and dividends are permitted only for foreign investments that have been registered in the Central Bank and may not exceed 18 per cent a year of the net value of the original and any additional invest- ment, including reinvested profits. Dividends rem i t ted or credited to nonresidents are subject to a tax of 18 per cent and a surtax of 3 per cent of the amount of the tax. Some delays have occurred in the provision of foreign exchange to commercial banks by the Cen- tral Bank for approved requests for payments for invisibles. At the end of 1981 there was ah accumu la- tion of about 16 weeks of such applications. Payments for invisibles for which foreign exchange is not sold at the official rate, or in excess of the limits specified, are made through the free exchange market. Such transactions include, in particular, expenses for tourist and business travel abroad, insurance premiums, and remittances for fam i ly living expenses. All commissions due to domestic agents or repre- sentatives of foreign firms arising from imports must be paid in Dominican pesos. Airline tickets also mu st be paid in local currency and are subject to a tax of 15 per cent when the price of the ticket is over 152 RD$200, or from RD$5 to RD$25 when the price is RD$200 or less. In principle, exchange for paymen ts for invisibles is made available w i th in five days f rom receipt of the application. Travelers are not perm i t ted to take w i th them any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of 34 products or subproducts, ma in ly food- s tu f fs, are prohibited, and 33 others, ma in ly interme- diate goods, require export licenses. All exports of sugar and sugar by-products are subject to prior authorization by a special comm i t tee. W i th in two work ing days of receiving paymen t, exporters of Domin- ican products must surrender to the Central Bank, through the commercial banks, fore ign exchange equal to 100 per cent of the invoiced va lue of the ir exports. For the purpose of exchange su r rende r, declared export prices must equal or exceed the m i n im um export prices established by CEDOPEX. Exempt f rom the exchange surrender requirements are firms ope ra t ing in indus- trial f ree zones, which are required to convert only the foreign exchange that is needed to cover local costs and taxes; in add i t ion, under the Export Incen- tives Law of November 8, 1979 receipts f rom specified non t rad i t ional exports may be exempted fu l ly or par- tially f rom the surrender requirement at the off ic ial exchange rate. Exporters may not extend cred it for more than 90 days f rom the date of shipment with- out authorization by the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the com- mercial banks. Tax credit certificates may also be issued for up to 15 per cent of the value of eligible non t rad i t ional exports. By the end of 1981, more than 40 products were fu l ly or pa r t ia l ly exempt from the surrender requirement; the overall exemption for the year was not deemed s ign if icant in relation to total export receipts. The import of Dom in ican bank- notes and coin is prohibited. Capital Inward capital remittances are subject to authoriza- tion by the Directorate of Foreign Investment and must be converted into pesos through commercial banks. Law No. 861 of Ju ly 22, 1978 consolidated and amplified the regulations governing direct foreign investments issued under Law No. 251 (and accom- panying Regulation No. 1679) of May 11, 1964, and created the Directorate of Foreign Investment. Such investments must be registered w i th the Central Bank for the investor to be able to remit dividends through the official exchange market; remittances are limited to an annual max imum of 18 per cent of the registered value and are converted in to foreign exchange at the preva i l ing rate of exchange. Dividends in excess of the annual limit may be reinvested but are not regis- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tered with the Central Bank as increased foreign capi- tal; alternatively, in accordance with Law No. 861, they may be loaned in local currency to enterprises undertaking approved economic activities, provided that the loan maturity is not less than eight years, that the interest rate is not more than 6 per cent, and that the yearly amortization does not exceed more than 20 per cent of the amount of the loan. Furthermore, dividends from reinvestments of amortization and interest payments on the loans mentioned above may not exceed 30 per cent of the foreign exchange earn- ings of the recipient enterprises. Law No. 861 assigns priority to investments in the export sector or in any other sector which would contribute to an improvement in the balance of pay- ments; it also reserves certain sectors (defense and national security, all means of mass communication, internal land and air transportation, and forestry) for domestic enterprises; certain other sectors (agriculture, poultry and livestock raising, fishery, financial inter- mediation, and insurance) are reserved for domestic enterprises or "mixed enterprises" (i.e., where national ownership is between 51 per cent and 70 per cen t). Registration may cover, besides the foreign exchange involved, the value of machinery and equipment, tools, instruments, accessories, and spare parts. Upon the liquidation of a direct foreign investment, capital gains may be remitted up to a limit of 2 per cent a year for a cumulative total of 20 per cent of the registered amount. Applications for approval of outward capital remittances must be submitted to the Directorate of Foreign Investment. Applications by residents to trans- fer capital abroad to make portfolio investments, pur- chase real estate, etc., are not normally approved. Foreign debt can be contracted directly by the Cen- tral Government with the prior authorization of the Congress. According to Law No. 251 of 1964, new loans by other public and private entities are authorized by the Monetary Board in order to guarantee the pro- vision of official foreign exchange for service of the loans. Foreign contracts by the private bank and non- bank sectors are approved by the Central Bank accord- ing to the following scale of priorities: export promo- tion, import substitution, expansion of local production, and import financing. For the second and third categories, foreign loans are not authorized if the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC repayment schedule is less than four years. For import financing, the repayment term of foreign loans must be less than 180 days, except for capital goods. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus tr ial users. Changes during 1981 February 2. A new export law provided for a tax discount of 15 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the shipment. Taxes and duties on merchandise imported for re-exports were waived. June 11. The following measures were introduced: ( a) the importation of motor vehicles was prohibited for a period of one year (Decree No. 2496 ); (b) the Monetary Board established a quota limiting the imports of raw materials at the official fore ign exchange rate to 90 per cent of the average annual value in 1979 and 1980; (c) a quota of US$100 million was imposed on imports by the Ins t i tu te Nacional de Estabilizacion de Precios (!NESPRE) financeable with fore ign exchange; and (d) spare parts for vehicles (the va lue of which amounted to around US$18 million in 1980) were added to the list of imports for which official foreign exchange would no longer be provided. August 1. Import taxes on spare parts and acces- sories for tractors, public transport vehicles, and trucks were reduced to a rate of 20 per cent ad valorem. November 19. Authorization was granted for the repatriation of foreign investments in tourist villas and apartments, provided that the foreign exchange earn- ings had been surrendered to the Central Bank. December 17. It was decided that remittances of dividends from foreign investments under Law No. 861 of 1978 would not require prior deposits in Dominican pesos. 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran Sucre. There are two exchange markets, the official market and the free market. In the official market, the Central Bank of Ecuador maintains rates of S/. 24.80 buying and S/. 24.95 selling, per US$1. The buying and sell- ing rates for other currencies l are officially quoted on the basis of daily buying and selling rates against the U.S. dollar in foreign markets. Export proceeds, import payments, certain settlements of invisibles, government and public sector transactions, and some capital trans- actions of the private sector are negotiated in the offi- cial market. With some exceptions (see be low ), all other transactions are conducted in the free ma rke t, in which the exchange rate fluctuates but where the Cen- tral Bank intervenes mainly for the purpose of avoid- ing sharp exchange rate fluctuations. The Central Bank also operates a "special window" through which it sells exchange to the public for specified invisible payments at a rate similar to the f ree market rate. The free mar- ket buying and selling rates on December 31, 1981 were S/. 32.89 and S/. 33.73, respectively, per US$1. A few transactions (such as paymen ts for printed mate- r ia l) may be made in either of the two markets. Imports, excluding imports of oil companies, are subject to an exchange tax of S/. 0.25 = US$1. Exchange transactions of oil companies are effected at the rate of S/. 25 per US$1; oil companies are sub- ject to an exchange tax of 1 per cent applied to both purchases and sales. Loan capital f rom international agencies and foreign governments to the Government and public institutions is converted at the rate of S / . 25 per US$1. External loans are subject to a tax that varies between 0.5 per cent and 2 per cent for maturities of 6 months to 24 months. Exempted from this tax are (1) loans of more than 24 months; ( 2) loans from foreign gov- ernments and international agencies; (3) loans to the public sector; and (4) suppliers' credits involving no inflow of foreign exchange. Ecuador forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect from August 31, 1970. Administration of Control The Monetary Board has authority to sh ift trans- actions between the two exchange markets and has extensive powers with respect to import policy. The official exchange market is under the control and 1 Argentine pesos, Aus tra l ian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Brazilian cruzeiros, Canad ian dollars, Chilean pesos, Colom- bian pesos, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, Pa raguayan guaranies, Pe ruv ian soles, pounds s ter l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U ruguayan new pesos, and Venezuelan bolivares. 154 supervision of the Central Bank. The Central Bank also issues import and export licenses and registers foreign capital. Imports en ter ing the coun try as part of a direct investment and imports by fore ign enter- prises which have contracts with the Government require prior authorization by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Integration and, when exemptions from fiscal charges are sought, by the M in is t ry of Finance. However, all applications for import licenses by indus- trial firms must be submitted to the Central Bank. Foreign investment in Ecuador is supervised by the Foreign Investment Council. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Roman ia take place through bilateral accounts. There is a reciprocal credit agreement with Argen t ina. Paymen ts between Ecuador and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Domini- can Republic, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, U ruguay, and Venezuela must be made th rough accounts ma in ta ined with each other by the Cen tral Bank of Ecuador and the other central banks concerned, within the frame- work of the mu l t i la teral clearing system of the Latin American In tegra t ion Association ( LA IA ). Exchange proceeds f rom other countries must be received in con- vertible currencies. Whenever possible, import pay- ments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two categories: List I, consisting of essential goods (G roup A) and semiessential goods (Group B ), and List II, consisting of less essential and luxury goods. All goods not included in these two lists are prohibited. Ma in ly for reasons of industrial protection, certain imports require prior authorization f rom government ministries or agencies. Prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports, with the following exceptions: books, news- papers, periodicals, and printed or recorded music may be imported free ly without a license against payment through the free marke t; if the importer applies for a license, exchange will be made available at the official rate but only when the items are for educational or scientific purposes. These imports are subject to pay- ment of the applicable taxes and charges regardless of their purpose. Medicines and spare parts for machin- ery and automotive vehicles are free of license when valued at US$500 f.o.b. or less, but all applicable charges and taxes must be paid on them. In addition, the State Petroleum Corporation may import supplies, materials, and equipment necessary for the conduct of its business dur ing emergency situations without obtain- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing a prior import license. A few goods may be imported only from member countries of the LAIA, and some only f rom Paraguay. With these exceptions, import licenses are issued freely irrespective of the origin of the goods, provided that the appropriate import taxes ( inc lud ing import surcharges) have been paid, that the required prepayment of 80 per cent of import duties has been made, that an advance deposit has been paid, that prior ministerial authorization (where applicable) has been obtained, and that a cer- tificate is submitted showing that insurance has been arranged in Ecuador. The license automatically entitles the holder to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c. & f. value of the import upon presentation of the shipping documents. Foreign exchange for advance import payments must be obtained f rom the free marke t. Import licenses which do not entitle the importer to foreign exchange at the official rate (permisos de importation no reem- bolsables) may be issued for goods financed f rom the proceeds of certain in terna t ional loans, provided that these have been registered at the Central Bank, but such licenses are not required to import the goods concerned. Many imports are subject to advance deposit require- ments. The deposit must be maintained for 180 days; for imports of List II items, the retention period is 270 days. The deposit is 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value for goods on List II, 15 per cent for goods on List I-B, and 20 per cent for goods imported on a barter basis. There are various exemptions.2 All imports are subject to a tax of 5 per cent levied on commercial transac- tions. Furthermore, all goods are subject to a tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value, unless they represent g if ts or foreign loans. With certain exemptions, goods on List II are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for paymen ts in respect of certain current invisibles may be obtained from the Central Bank at the official rate. These transac t ions in invisibles are, in principle, limited to interest on foreign loans that have been registered at the Central Bank, dividends and profits on foreign investments registered at the Central Bank (provided the foreign exchange was sold at the Central B a n k ), payments by the Government and public entities, and the necessary expenses of Ecuadorans studying at universities abroad, medical expenses, and advertising costs. Exchange for travel may be obtained at the Central Bank's special window up to a max imum of S/. 1,000 a person for trips to neighboring countries, S /. 2,000 for tr ips to other countries in South America, and S/. 3,000 for other destinations. Exchange for private sector interest pay- ments of loans of over one year and of suppliers' credits a Among these exemptions are goods on List I-B when imported by the public sector and imports of teaching materials for schoois. ECUADOR can be obtained at the Central Bank's special window for interest rates not exceeding 15 per cent, provided that the loans have been registered at the Central Bank; exchange for private sector payments of interest in excess of this limit must be purchased in the free mar- ket. There is no ceiling for interest payments by the public sector. With respect to loans to petroleum companies, interest, commission, and other financial charges on foreign loans may not exceed the equivalent of 2 per cent above the rates of interest of the creditor country; moreover, annual amortization may not exceed the sum of undistributed profits, depreciation of fixed assets and liquidated assets, and any variation in work- ing capital. There are also limits on student allowances and "other" invisibles eligible for the official rate, but amounts in excess of these limits may be purchased in the free market. Most other payments for current invisibles must be settled in the free market and are unrestricted. There are no limitations on the amounts of domestic and foreign banknotes that travelers may take out. Resi- dents traveling abroad by air must pay a tax of S/. 700 for each exit visa. Airline tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10 per cent, while tickets for travel by ship are subject to tax at the rate of 8 per cent for departure from Ecuador and 4 per cent for the return trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses to ensure the full sur- render of the exchange proceeds to the Central Bank; licenses are issued freely, subject to guarantee. Export proceeds must be surrendered not later than 360 days a f ter shipment for manufac tured goods, 60 days for coffee beans, bananas, and unprocessed seafood prod- ucts, and 180 days for other products; however, the Central Bank may extend these periods. No surrender is required for exports effected under licensed barter transactions. However, barter transactions require a prior contract. Minimum reference prices are estab- lished for exports of bananas, coffee, cacao, and semi- finished products of cacao to help ensure the full sur- render of the exchange proceeds. Reference prices are also established for exports of crude petroleum; these serve as the basis for the calculation of taxes, royalties, etc. Certain exports require prior authorization of specified ministries. Certain commodities are subject to export taxes, payable at the time the export license is received, with the exception of the export tax on coffee, which is payable within one month of the receipt of the export license. Exports of coffee and cocoa are subject to a sliding-scale tax in relation to international prices; the tax ranges up to 13 per cent for washed coffee, 20 per cent for raw coffee, and 15 per cent for cocoa. A number of export products receive a subsidy based on the f.o.b. value. The sub- sidy is received in the form of a tax credit certificate (certificado de abono tributario) on the basis of cus- 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR toms documentation. For agricultural products the subsidy rate is 5 per cent of the f.o.b. export value; for manufactured products, the rate of subsidy is related, inter alia, to domestic value added. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from specified invisibles must be sold to the Central Bank at the official rate. All other receipts, including those from travelers, may be sold in the free market. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market. Most borrowing abroad is subject to an exchange tax ranging from 0.5 per cent to 2 per cent (see section on Exchange Arrangement, above). All foreign investments in Ecuador must be regis- tered with the Central Bank. New investments require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Integration or the Foreign Investment Council. In the case of investments for which exchange was sold to cover local costs, the investor must show that the exchange was sold to the Central Bank in order to be entitled to foreign exchange at the official rate for remittances of interest, profits, dividends, and amortization. For foreign capital entering in the form of machinery and equipment, the investor must show that the merchandise has been cleared through customs and that it took the form of a "nonreimbursable" import. Additionally, the investor must present to the Central Bank the certification f rom the appropriate ministry that the declared value conforms to the actual value of the machinery and equipment. The Exchange Department of the Central Bank must submit a recom- mendation to the General Management of the Central Bank within 30 days from receipt of the request for registration in the official market and all pertinent docu- mentation. Thereafter, tak ing into account the inter- ests of the Ecuadoran economy and priorities estab- lished in the country's development plans, the General Management of the Central Bank must approve or deny the registration for foreign exchange purposes within an additional 30 days. In certain cases, where all docu- mentation has been submitted, the Central Bank can provisionally register the investment for a period of up to 90 days. Similarly, loans in foreign exchange granted to the Government or to official entities may be registered for foreign exchange purposes with the Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank; for all foreign loans ,^ regis- tration is mandatory for statistical purposes. In the case of suppliers' credits, no special registration pro- cedure is required. Foreign nationals are prohibited f rom owning rural properties and f rom owning or operating mining industries within 30 miles of Ecuador's coastline or borders. The participation of foreign capi- tal as a direct investment in domestic wholesaling and 156 retailing, in construction, and in real estate develop- ment is restricted. The M in is try of Industry, Com- merce, and Integration does not authorize direct foreign investment for establishing pub l ic i ty firms, commercial broadcasting stations, television stations, newspapers, and magazines. Foreign exchange may be obtained at the official rate for the w i thdrawal of foreign investment from Ecuador five years a f ter the da te of registration, on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank. Profits accumulated in previous years may be repatri- ated also on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank for investments for which the registra- tion procedure for fore ign exchange purposes has been completed. For inves tmen ts registered on a provisional basis, prof i ts may not be repatriated through the official market. Profit remittances may not exceed the limit (20 per cent a yea r) specified in the Foreign Invest- ment Code of the Andean Pact. Residents who are pr iva te ind iv idua ls are not granted official foreign exchange to purchase securities or real estate abroad. Commercial banks are authorized to ma in ta in accounts with correspondent banks abroad in convertible currencies. Gold Residents other than the Central Bank may export gold only in the fo rm of filigree work, the gold con- tent of which does not represent more than 25 per cent of its market value. Imports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank; such imports are treated as List I imports, payable through the official market. Imports of nonmonetary gold in bars may be made by the Central Bank or by any o ther resident and are also treated as List I imports eligible for the official rate. Gold bars are exempt f rom import du ty, while the du ty on semiworked gold is 40 per cent ad valorem; semiworked gold is trea ted as a List II import. Changes during 1981 January 5. Soluble coffee and fig flour were added to the list of products which can be used in bar ter for automobile imports (M in is te r ial Regulation No. 350). February 13. Changes were made in the advance import deposit scheme, as fo l lows: (a) the rate of deposit was increased from 10 per cent to 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value for goods on List I-B, and from 30 per cent to 50 per cent for goods on List II; (b) goods imported on a bar ter basis, previously exempt f rom prior import deposits, were made subject to a prior deposit requirement of 20 per cen t; (c) for goods on List II, the retention period for the deposits was lengthened f rom 180 days to 270 days; and (d) Regu- lation No. 1080 of May 7, 1980, wh ich allowed prior import deposits to be paid up to 25 per cent in bonds, was annulled (Mone ta ry Board Regulation No. 1104). February 13. The Central Bank was prohibited from authorizing exchange at the official rate for the purpose ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of making advance payments for imports (Mone tary Board Regulation No. 1105). February 18. Tariffs on automobile imports were raised by up to 100 percentage points, up to a maxi- mum of 290 per cent, for luxury automobiles (Execu- tive Order No. 382 ). February 25. Imports of taxis were exempted from customs duties and the quota on such imports was fixed at 302 units (M in is ter ial Regulation No. 388). February 25. Imports of film packs were shifted from List II to List I-B and were made subject to prior authorization by the M in is try of Agriculture. Permis- sible sources of imports of film packs were no longer limited to Paraguay (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1115). February 27. Imports of transport vehicles weighing more than three tons and classified under List I-B were made subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Public Works (Mone ta ry Board Regulation No. 1118). March 16. Imports of portland gray cement under List I-A were made subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Indus try, Commerce, and Integration (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1121). March 16. Imports of unpulverized cement clink- ers were shifted f rom List I-B to List I-A and made subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Indus- try, Commerce, and In tegra t ion (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1122). April 1. To facilitate access to subsidy in the form of tax credit certificates for nontraditional exports, the criteria for determining the amount of subsidy were relaxed (Ministerial Regulation No. 410 ). April 1. Imports of wood and metal planes (tools) were shifted f rom List I-A to List I-B (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1132). April 1. Imports of circuit breakers were made sub- ject to prior authorization by the M in is try of Industry, Commerce, and Integration (Mone tary Board Regula- tion No. 1133). April 1. Foreign exchange allowance for travel obtainable at the Central Bank's special window was limited to a max imum of US$1,000 a person for unoff i- cial travel and to US$2,000 a person for official travel. In addition, effective May 17, 1981 the maximum travel allowance was established at US$1,000 for trips to neighboring countries, US$2,000 for trips to other ECUADOR countries in South America, and US$3,000 for other destinations. May 15. The General Management of the Central Bank was authorized to extend, at its discretion, the size and scope of direct intervention in the free mar- ket. (Previously, central bank intervention was limited in scope and was done mainly through a special window at a fixed rate established periodically by the Monetary Board.) (Mone ta ry Board Regulation No. 1139) May 15. Monetary Board Regulation No. 1140 authorized the Central Bank, for a six-month period beginning May 15, 1981, to sell foreign exchange at the official rate for payments of interest by the private sector in respect of (a) foreign loans with maturities of over one year and the proceeds of which had been con- verted in the official market, and (b) suppliers' credits for goods on List I-A, provided in both cases that interest rates did not exceed 15 per cent. May 15. The Central Bank was permitted to sell foreign exchange on the terms specified in the above- mentioned May 15, 1981 measures through its special window, including foreign loans w i th ma tu r i t ies of over one year which had been registered with the Cen- tral Bank but whose proceeds were not exchanged at the official rate. May 15. Imports by the public sector of goods on List II were made subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1143). July 23. Imports of teaching materials for schools were exempted from prior import deposit requirements (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1151). July 29. Import duties were increased on items in about 500 tar iff categories. September 22. The sliding-scale tax on coffee, pre- viously applied un iform ly to all types at levels rang ing between 26.5 per cent and 35 per cent, was levied at a rate ranging up to 13 per cent for washed coffee and up to 20 per cent for raw coffee (Legislative Act No. 78 ). September 24. The 25 per cent export tax on cocoa was changed to a sliding-scale tax ranging up to 15 per cent, depending on international prices (Legislative Act No. 79). December 8. Imports of specified light vehicles were prohibited (Monetary Board Regulation No. 1166). 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at LE 1 = US$1.42857. The established buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Egypt for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1981 were LE 0.700 and LE 0.707 respectively, per US$1. Established rates for 16 other convertible currencies are based on cross rates quoted in New York.1 This rate applies, how- ever, only to certain exports, Suez Canal dues, and pub- lic sector imports financed by the Central Bank. A spe- cial exchange rate, equivalent to LE 1 = US$2.55555, applies to transactions under bilateral payments agree- ments with countries that are not members of the International Monetary Fund and to liquidation accounts related to past bilateral payments agreements. A rate of LE 0.83168 = US$1 is applied to exchange transactions by the commercial banks, notably those in respect of workers' remittances, tourist receipts, minor exports, certain private imports, and public sector imports not financed by the Central Bank. In addition, certain transactions, including most private sector imports and certain payments for invisibles, take place at freely negotiated exchange rates. For- ward cover is available for foreign trade transactions. Banks do not require prior exchange control approval for dealings or transactions in foreign currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Committee for Foreign Exchange, under the Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade, and Economic Cooperation, and is implemented under the supervision of the Under Sec- retary for Foreign Exchange Affa irs. A foreign exchange budget is established annually. Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions, within the framework of a general authorization, with- out the need to obtain specific exchange control approval. The Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade, and Economic Cooperation supervises imports and exports, but controlled imports are governed by exchange allocations rather than by import licenses. Certain imports and exports are reserved for public sector companies. Port Said City is a free zone. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Egypt does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in any convertible currency, in Egyptian pounds, or in a convertible currency to the debit or credit of the appropriate Free Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, be low), or in any other manner prescribed or permitted by the fore ign exchange regula- tions manua l. However, by a decision of the Central Bank, the proceeds f rom exports of raw cotton to convertible currency countries must be received in deutsche ma rk, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars (in addi- tion, for exports to France, Japan, and the United Kingdom, in the currencies of those coun t r ies ). Settlements w i th countries w i th which Egypt has bilateral payments agreements are made according to the terms of those agreements.2 However, payments to such countries for "own exchange" imports and var ious other purposes may be made in convertible currency. Certain settlements w i th countries with which indemn i ty agreements concerning compensation for nationalized property are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDRs and may be paid by deb i t ing Canal Dues Accounts, Advance Payment Canal Dues Accounts, Free Accounts in Foreign Currency, or Free Accounts in Egyptian Pounds. Canal Dues Accounts must be opened in foreign currency, and balances are retrans- ferab le abroad. Nonresident Accounts In add i t ion to the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral payments agreements or to the indemnity agreements concluded with certain countries, there are three main types of accounts: Free Accounts, D Ac- counts, and Canal Dues Accounts. Free Accounts may be opened in the name of any person other than the Egyptian Government, public authorities, and public sector entities. They may be opened either in fore ign currency or Egyptian pounds; the la t ter are freely convertible. Free Accounts may be credited w i th transfers of convertible currency or w i th the proceeds from the sale of such currency; with transfers f rom other Free Accounts; with proceeds f rom the sale of foreign bankno tes which the holder has declared upon entry into Egypt; with interest on the accounts; and with the equivalent of any payment authorized in convertible currency. They may be debited for paymen ts abroad in a convertible currency; for t ran s fe rs to other Free Accounts; for purchases of foreign banknotes or other means of paymen t; for any paymen ts in Egypt, inc lud ing those for exports; and for bank charges and commissions. 1 Aus t r ian schillings, Be lg ian f ranc s, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 On December 31, 1981 Egypt ma in ta ined bilateral payments ag reemen ts w i th People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Sudan, and U.S.S.R. The credit facilities estab- l ished between the Cen tral Bank of Egypt and the Central Bank of Jordan have been suspended. The agreements with Mongolia and Yemen Arab Republic are inoperative. 158 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a country with which Egypt has a bilateral payments agreement. The accounts must be desig- nated by the name of the partner country concerned. These accounts may be credited with receipts under the respective payments agreement and with the equivalent of transfers authorized from the country of the account holder. They may be debited for trans- fers to the country of the account holder and for local payments (including those for Egyptian exports) authorized by the implementing regulations and within the scope of the relevent payments agreement. There are also N(inconvertible Capital Accounts, to which must be credited any payment of a capital na tu re to a foreigner living outside of Egypt that is not remit- table under the exchange control regulations. Banks may debit these accounts for charges legally due from the account holder. Accounts held by individuals may be debited up to a limit of LE 2,000 a year for use by the account holder. Accounts held by juridical persons may be debited for settlement of outstanding obligations to the Egyptian authorities and for pay- ments to residents for services rendered, and up to a limit of LE 2,000 a year for expenses incurred in con- nection with the activities or residence of the holder's employees in Egypt. Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts may be opened in the name of authorized recipients up to specified percentages of the proceeds from certain exports and nonfactor services and may be credited with the proceeds of such transactions. They may be debited for paymen ts in respect of trade and invisibles related to the account holder's economic activities or for surrender of the foreign currency. Balances in such accounts held by the private sector must be used within six months or surrendered; in the case of public sector entities, the limit is one month. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. No exchange is allocated in practice for many goods that are considered nonessential or that are produced locally, although most types of commodities may be imported, provided the necessary foreign exchange is acquired outside the official and the commercial bank markets. All imports financed by the Central Bank are at the established rate, with the exception of imports under bilateral payments agreements with countries that are not members of the IMF, which are financed at a special rate equivalent to the former official rate. A more depreciated rate is applied to imports financed by commercial banks, while a freely determined rate is applied for imports under the "own exchange" arrangement. Most imports f rom payments agreement countries (except those made under the "own exchange" arrange- m en t ), as well as imports of specified goods from any source, are reserved for the public sector. Private sec- EGYPT tor importers of "own exchange" imports must be Egyptians, born of Egyptian fathers. For imports on "own exchange" basis, importers must make advance payment in local currency to local banks, amounting to 25 per cent of value for certain food items, and 40 per cent for production inputs other than trans- portation equipment. For imports of other items under "own exchange" arrangements, importers must make an advance deposit in foreign exchange equal to the f u ll value of imports. A Supreme Council for the P lann ing of Foreign Trade is entrusted with establishing long-term policy for exports and imports, controlling the annual export and import plan, and supervising the execution of the foreign exchange budget. The ministries concerned are responsible for setting priorities regarding imports and their timing. For purposes of administration, the econ- omy is divided into several sectors (agriculture, indus- try, transportation, etc .). The annual foreign exchange budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of the sector decide upon the goods to be imported within that quota. Approval by a foreign trade committee constitutes the necessary authorization for the implementation of import trans- actions. Private sector imports through the commercial bank market require approval by the Commercial Agency. Imports are regulated by exchange allocations rather than by import licenses. All commodities except those appearing on a special list may be imported, provided that no purchase of foreign exchange in the official market or the com- mercial bank market is involved. For certain specified items, a special Determination Committee must first approve the transaction. Certain imported goods may be sold for foreign currency to Egyptians and for- eigners at special shops. An economic development tax of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on imports; the tax is 5 per cent for certain essential foods tuffs imported by the Ministry of Supply. A statistical tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on all imports except wheat. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange for payments for certain invisibles in accordance with general authorizations and instructions and up to specific quotas. Residents may purchase, through local banks and up to specified amounts, the foreign exchange required for travel expenses and certain other purposes, at the rate established for exchange transac- tions with the commercial banks. Egyptian nationals are entitled to retain their earnings in foreign exchange (except those accruing from exports and tourism) in Free Accounts and may use this foreign exchange freely for payments abroad. They may also acquire additional foreign exchange through the medium of Free Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Travelers may carry with them foreign bank- 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT notes acquired through other channels that have not previously been declared up to LE 200 a trip or LE 2,000 a year. Travelers may not export more than LE 20 in Egyptian banknotes. Egyptian travelers may take with them any foreign exchange that they have acquired legitimately; foreign travelers leaving Egypt may recon- vert their remaining Egyptian pounds af ter deduction of LE 20 for each night spent in Egypt. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from exports to South Africa, which are prohibited, and commodities required for the national economy that may be restricted, exports may be made free of license. Exports of m any products are organized and supervised by foreign trade committees. Cotton, rice, and petrolum are exported by the public sector only. Export proceeds other than those f rom books, news- papers, and other publications must be repatriated within three months from the date of shipment of the goods. Within specified limits, export proceeds may be retained in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts. Proceeds f rom exports to bilateral payments agreement countries must be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. Some exports to specified countries may be settled through indemnity accounts. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings abroad by persons other than the Egyptian Government, public authorities, and public sector enti- ties may be held abroad or retained indefinitely in Free Accounts. Within specified limits, receipts from the provision of local hotel, transport, or travel agency services to tourists may be retained in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts. Many public sector and other entities are permitted to retain all or part of their receipts f rom invisibles in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts, and in many instances are exempt from the periodic surrender requirements applied to these accounts. Certain travel in Egypt by foreigners may be financed from various special accounts, such as those under indemnity agreements with certain countries. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may import up to LE 20 in Egyptian banknotes and are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange; a customs declaration is required if the traveler wishes to re-export foreign currency or use it to open a Free Account. Foreign travelers must convert into Egyptian currency the equivalent of LE 100 to obtain an entry visa. Capital Egyptian nationals who have deposited foreign earnings in Free Accounts in Egyptian banks may use this foreign exchange for any purpose, including trans- fer abroad. With this exception, outward capital 160 transfers are restricted. Egyptian em igran ts are autho- rized to t ran s fer abroad f u n ds up to LE 900 a person or LE 3,500 a fam i ly, to take out jewelry and other valuables up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a family, and to export other personal effects and fu rn i tu re up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a fam i ly. Authorized banks are empowered to import, export, and negotiate securities and to effect t rans fe rs related to the sale or purchase of either Egyptian or foreign securities. Brokers registered on the stock exchanges of Cairo and Alexandria are authorized to intermediate in the transfer of ownership of securities, whether at home or abroad, and to under take the local collection or payment in foreign currency of the value of the securities. Foreign and jo in t-ven ture banks are required to ensure that 15 per cent of their foreign currency deposits can be made available on call, if necessary, by the Central Bank. Transfers of accrued alimony are permitted in accordance w i th court orders. An amount not exceed- ing LE 5,000 a family —irrespective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released f rom a fam i ly's assets in Egypt to persons of foreign na t iona l i ty who leave the country permanen t ly after a period of residence of at least five years. Any amount above th is limit is credited to a Nonconvertible Capital Account. Any payment of a capital na ture not remit- table under the exchange control regulations must be credited to a Nonconvertible Capital Account. Law No. 43 of June 19, 1974 (amended by Law No. 32 of June 9, 1977) Concerning the Investment of A rab and Foreign Funds and the Free Zones defines the trea tment of new foreign investments. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by this law are considered on an ind iv idual basis. Gold Authorized banks are empowered to buy, sell, and keep abroad gold (including gold co in) and other precious metals for the account of customers entitled to hold Free Accounts. Authorized banks may import such gold and other precious metals for local deposit and may subsequently re-export them. Certain persons other than the monetary authorities, including autho- rized industrial users, are allowed to import precious metals and stones for industrial and local market requirements. Exports of gold and silver fabrics are permitted, provided that the sales proceeds are repa- triated in convertible currency. Travelers are permitted to take out and bring in gold jewelry within specified limits. There is a free market for gold coin in Cairo. Changes during 1981 June 30. The valuation of gold reserves was changed f rom the historical price to a level linked to interna- t ional market prices. August 1. The prior import deposit requirement with the Central Bank, amounting to 25 per cent for food items and 40 per cent for raw materials, was ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution modified by requiring that the deposits were to be made in domestic rather than foreign currency. August 1. For transactions through the commercial banks, a depreciated exchange rate of 83.168 piastres per US$1 was introduced (the rate for transactions by the Central Bank remained unchanged at 70 piastres, and a more depreciated free rate continued to apply at the "own exchange marke t"). September 23. The "Special Accounts" were abol- ished and the existing balances were transferred to "Free Accounts." Foreign banknotes not accompanied by customs declaration continued to be used for certain purposes, such as the purchase of saving certificates in foreign currency. EGYPT 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran Colon. El Salvador maintains a dual exchange market system consisting of an official market in which the Salvadoran colon is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at (22.50 = US$1, and a parallel market in which the value of the colon fluctuates freely. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank for transactions with the public are (Z 2.49 buying and 02.51 selling, per US$1. Official market transactions by commercial banks with the public take place within these limits. Buying and selling rates in the official market for other currencies are based on the daily quotations for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. A stamp tax of 0.1 per cent is appli- cable to all sales of exchange; on amounts below (I 100,000, the tax is levied at fixed amounts that may be slightly in excess of 0.1 per cent. Buying and selling rates in the parallel market fluctuate according to mar- ket forces.1 Commercial banks are not permitted to purchase or sell foreign exchange in the parallel market; however, individuals may open foreign currency deposit accounts in the commercial banks and use funds in such accounts to deal in the parallel market in respect of certain authorized transactions. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Subject to any directives issued by the Monetary Board, exchange control authority is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank through its Exchange Control Department. Au thor i ty to approve all payments through the parallel market is delegated to the commercial banks. Prior authorization by the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the Central Reserve Bank is required for all payments through the official market. Exports of a number of commodities require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy, subject to agreement by the Ministry of Agriculture. Since January 30, 1980 exports of major commodities have been under government supervision. Exports of sugar are governed by the Insti- tute Nacional de Azucar ( !NAZUCAR ), and those of coffee are governed by the Institute Nacional de Cafe ( INCAFE ). Prescription of Currency Payments to other member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM )2 in respect of trade and specified invisibles must be settled in the cur- rencies of those countries or in Salvadoran colones i Jhe buying and selling rates in the parallel ma rket fluctuated around (Zl 3.50 per US$1 at the end of December 1981. 2 Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. 162 through the Central American Clearing House. Pay- ments to Mexico are also settled through the Clearing House. Otherwise, residents are free to make authorized paymen ts in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign institutions or persons established in El Salvador may hold nonresident accounts in fo re ign currency with authorized bank s, provided that such accounts are credited with fore ign exchange received f rom abroad. Banks may also freely open foreign cu r rency accounts, for any period of time and in any amoun t, in the names of physical persons (whe ther of fore ign or Salvadoran na t iona l i ty) who reside abroad and, for a max imum period of six months, in the names of foreign persons s tay ing in El Salvador for a period not exceeding six months. All nonresident accounts may be utilized free ly, but the commercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements on such accounts. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts of certain nonessential goods are prohibited unless they originate f rom Central America. Import licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Economy and are required for only a few items, inc lud ing airplanes, firearms, ammun i t ion, m i l i ta ry equipment, dynamite, cotton for industrial use, ju te sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and pharmaceutical products, coffee for seed- ing, sugar, and saccharin. Imports valued at US$200 or more from all countries must be registered with the Central Reserve Bank before orders are placed; orders for imports eligible for foreign exchange financing through the official market must be approved by the Exchange Control Department, while approval for imports through the parallel market is delegated to the commercial banks. Cer ta in goods that are considered nonessen t ial com- modities ( inc lud ing alcoholic beverages, tobacco, cos- metics, watches, jewelry, automobiles, f u r n i t u r e, domes- tic appliances, photographic equipment, prepared foods, electric shavers, and typewr i ters), wh ich represent about 25 per cent of the total value of imports in 1981, may be paid for only through the parallel market. Some of these goods may be imported through the parallel mar- ket only if they originate in the CACM countries or Panama. Only items considered as pr ior i ty imports may be paid for through the official market.3 Impor ts f rom countries outside the CACM that apply d iscr im ina tory restrictions aga inst exports f rom El Sal- vador must be paid for before customs clearance, with 3 These inc lude energy supplies, basic food items, medicines, inputs and raw materials for the agr icu l tural and indus t r ial sectors, and spare parts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the exception of industrial raw materials, which may be paid for within three years (medicines f rom Mexico may be paid for within 90 days; this applies also to imports of spare pa r ts f rom Mexico by importers who are regarded as small enterprises). All payments for imports eligible for the official mar- ket must be approved by the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the Central Reserve Bank. When suppliers abroad request payment in advance, a prior deposit of 10 per cent, calculated on the value of the advance pay- ment, is required from the importer as a guarantee. Guarantee deposits are re funded when the goods arrive in the country, provided that payment has been made in fu ll to the exporter. In addition, all imports exceed- ing US$2,000 that are paid for by letters of credit or drafts (cobranzas) are subject to a 10 per cent prior deposit.4 The deposit may be made in cash at the Cen- tral Bank or any authorized bank. If the importer so desires, a bond issued or guaranteed by the Government or a guarantee by a bank (fianza) in an amount equal to 10 per cent of his average monthly imports may be deposited instead of cash. All payments for imports in the parallel market must be channeled through foreign currency accounts opened with authorized commercial banks. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, El Salvador gran ts duty exonerations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved indus tr ial firms. Imports originating outside the CACM are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import du ty; the surcharge is not applied to certain industrial equipment and raw materials that are free of duty under the Industrial Incentive Law. Many non- essential goods are subject to a selective consumption tax, at rates of 5, 10, 20, 25, or 30 per cent. Goods of Central American origin are exempt. There has been an accumulation of arrears on pay- ments for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are prohibited in the official market, except for certain student and medical expenses, official travel, and payments of interest and dividends on registered capital. Students registered with the Cen- tral Reserve Bank prior to November 30, 1981 for uni- versity, postgraduate, or technical t ra in ing abroad may purchase fore ign exchange in the official market up to the equivalent of US$300 a month for living expenses and up to a maximum of US$5,000 a year for educa- tional expenses. Students with scholarships financed by international organizations may also purchase foreign exchange in the official market up to the amounts speci- 4 Impor ts of raw materials for the agricultural and indus tr ial sectors which are paid for by letters of credit under special lines of credit arranged by the Central Reserve Bank are exempt f rom this require- ment. EL SALVADOR fied in the scholarship. In addition, ind iv idua ls studying abroad with a guarantee f rom the Fondo de Garantia para el Credito Educative (EDUCRED ITO) or financed by the Fondo de Desarrollo Economico as of December 1, 1981 may purchase foreign exchange in the official market for the amount of their educational expenses (not to exceed US$300 a month a person for living expenses). Foreign exchange can also be purchased in the official ma rket to cover medical and hospital expenses abroad up to US$3,000 a person, subject to a 100 per cent prior deposit and substantiation through medical certifi- cation, bills, receipts, and other pertinent documents. This deposit requirement is waived in cases where for- eign exchange is requested to pay for services already rendered, subject to appropriate verification. Payments for invisible transactions of a personal na tu re (i.e., study abroad, fore ign travel, medical care, f am i ly assistance, and insurance fees) are permitted in the parallel market up to a max imum of US$2,000 a person a month, or US$24,000 a year, by holders of fore ign currency deposits, subject to prior authorization of a commercial bank acting on behalf of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Reserve Bank. There has been an accumulation of arrears on payments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for some food- s tu f fs and other items for which the authorities wish to ensu re an adequate local supply. The proceeds of tra- ditional exports (coffee, cotton, sugar, shrimp, lobsters) must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the fore ign exchange must be surrendered in the official market. Proceeds of nontraditional exports outside the CACM countries may be surrendered in the parallel market .5 Export transactions must be declared to the Exchange Control Department before shipment. The collection term normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be authorized by the Exchange Control Department. With the exception of sales to "new markets," exports of coffee and sugar are subject to export tax. An export registration certificate f rom the Central Reserve Bank is required, prior to clearance th rough customs, for all exports in excess of US$200. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be sur- rendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank (see footnote 5 ). Travelers may bring in (2 200 in domestic notes and coin. This limit is sub- ject to modification, however, to fac i l i ta te border trade with other Central American countries. 5 With effect f rom February 1, 1982 the Monetary Board authorized expor ters of nontraditional exports to destinations outside the CACM region to re ta in their export proceeds in fore ign cu r rency deposit accounts; in addition, family remittances f rom abroad and proceeds f r om personal services and commissions were made eligible for sur- render in the parallel market. 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Capital All exchange receipts resulting from capital transac- tions must be surrendered to the monetary authorities. Payments abroad representing capital movements require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital. The entry of capital with a ma tur i ty in excess of one year in the form of foreign investment must be registered with the Ministry of Econ- omy. Registration ensures (1) free remittance of net profits on foreign capital invested in indus tr ial enter- prises, enterprises engaged in the extraction of nonre- newable na tural resources, and tourist enterprises; ( 2) the remittance of net profits of enterprises engaged in other activities up to a limit of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be autho- rized in special cases by the Ministry of Economy); ( 3) repatriation of the proceeds f rom the total or par t ial liquidation of the enterprise (a f ter payment of taxes) in proportion to the participation of foreign capital in the total capital; (4) remittance of the sales proceeds of shares and other instruments representing investments or participations, including capital gains; and (5) pay- ment of interest and amortization as determined at the time of registration. In the cases under (3) and ( 4 ), in addition to the approval of the Exchange Control Department, the prior approval of the Ministry of Econ- omy is required. Foreign investments made in El Salva- dor prior to June 1, 1961 must also be registered by the Ministry of Economy or the Exchange Control Depart- ment. Prior approval by the Exchange Control Department is required for outward remittances of interest and amortization on short-term loans from abroad through the official market; foreign loans with a ma tu r i ty of up to one year must be authorized by the Central Reserve Bank, while foreign loans with a ma tur i ty of more than one year must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain mini- mum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by foreign nationals and for those in which foreign nationals have a shareholding interest. For purposes of this decree, foreign nationals are defined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five CACM countries. Gold Gold coins in denominations of (225, (250, (2100, and (2 200 have been issued as legal tender, but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are granted for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. In practice, imports of nonmonetary unworked gold are made only 164 by jewelers' cooperatives acting on behalf of their mem- bers and other users. Changes during 1981 March 17. Changes were made in exchange control regulations on invisible payments through the official market as follows: (a) For public sector employees s tudy ing abroad or those with scholarships granted by in te rna t ional organi- zations, exchange allowances for personal ma in tenance was authorized up to the amount indicated in the scholarship award; for those accompanied abroad by f am i ly members, an additional amount of up to 50 per cent of the mon th ly salary or US$300, whichever was higher, could be approved. (The basic exchange allow- ance of US$300 a mon th for un ive rs i ty s tuden ts abroad in troduced in February 1980 rema ined unchanged .) (b) The documen ta t ion requirements and administra- tive procedures relating to sales of fo re ign exchange for official travel and represen ta t ion abroad were simplified, (c) Beg inn ing from March 1, 1981 bona fide receipts f rom pensions could be transferred to beneficiaries living abroad up to US$600 a month. (Such transfers had been discontinued fo l low ing the suspension in November 1980 of foreign exchange sales for fam i ly assistance abroad .) (d) Subject to proper documen ta t ion, au thor iza t ion was granted for fore ign exchange to be provided for medical and hospital expenses already incurred, without the 100 per cent prior deposit requ irement in troduced in November 1980. June 12. Imports of ag r icu l tu ral and industrial inputs settled w i th letters of credit under special credit facilities arranged by the Central Reserve Bank were exempted f rom the 10 per cent pr ior deposit requ irement for imports settled w i th letters of credit. November 27. Changes were made in existing regu- lations as follows: (a) effective December 1, 1981, out- ward payments through the o f f ic ial ma rket were fu r ther tightened, with the exception of ce r ta in s tudent expendi- tures, medical and hospital expenses, and official travel; (b) the restrictions in troduced in December 1980 on the use of foreign currency deposits in the bank ing sys- tem were relaxed to permit such deposits to be used to t ran s fer f u n ds from one resident to another or to transfer f u n ds abroad for specified import and invisible payments; and (c) the max imum value of exports or imports beyond which registration must be made w i th the Cen- tral Reserve Bank was reduced from US$500 to US$200. December 16. A limit of US$2,000 a mon th a person, or US$24,000 a person a year, was imposed on invisible paymen ts for personal services through the parallel mar- ket by holders of foreign currency deposits, subject to prior authorization of a commercial bank acting on behalf of the Exchange Control Depar tment of the Central Reserve Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the Equatorial Guinean Ekwele,1 which is issued by the Bank of Equa- torial Guinea (the central b a n k ), and is pegged to the Spanish peseta at a rate of Bipk. 1 = Pta 0.5. The ckwele replaced the Equatorial Guinean peseta and was at par with the Spanish peseta, which was Equatorial Guinea's intervention currency until July 12, 1977, when the Spanish peseta was devalued. Thereafter, Equatorial Guinea suspended exchange operations, with the exception of some small transactions that took place on the basis of a fixed relationship between the ekwele and a currency basket. From April 9, 1979 to August 5, 1979 the ekwele was pegged to the SDR at the rate of Bipk. 90 = SDR 1. From August 6, 1979 to June 20, 1980 the ekwele was pegged at par to the Spanish peseta, i.e., Bipk. 1 = Pta 1. On June 21, 1980 the ekwele was depreciated to a rate of Bipk. 1 = Pta 0.5. There are no forward exchange facilities. There is a 2 per cent levy on foreign exchange transactions, and exchange taxes of 10, 17.5, 20, 25, and 35 per cent are levied on certain transfers abroad. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is exercised by the Bank of Equatorial Guinea, and exchange transactions must be carried out through that Bank. Import and export licenses are issued by the Technical Directorate of For- eign Trade in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. The Technical Cabinet is in charge of approving a monthly import license budget and overseeing its imple- mentation. Import licenses approved by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce are forwarded to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea, and the Bank, in turn, passes them on to the importer and to the local bank at which the importer is to open the necessary letters of credit. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are made in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All commercial imports require an import license. Licenses normally are issued within the framework of an annual import program and a mon th ly license budget approved by the Technical Cabinet. The importer is allowed 30 days to open the necessary letters of credit at a local bank, a f ter which the license may be canceled by the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. Imports must be made within three months from the date of the opening of the letters of credit. The Bank of Equatorial Guinea determines whether an import should be charged against the Spanish credit lines, and forwards, if necessary, the 1 On March 16, 1981 Equatorial Gu inea replaced the ekuele by a new currency, the ekwele (plural bipkwele), at the rate of one to one. licenses directly to FOCOEX (a Spanish institute for the promotion of foreign trade) for fu r th er processing. In principle, foreign exchange is automatically made available upon the arrival of the goods in Equatorial Guinea; most import payments are effected under irrevocable letters of credit. All imports are subject to a prior payment covering the fu ll amount of the appli- cable import duty. Final assessment of the import tax is made at the time of registration of the import pay- ment upon declaration of the arrival of the goods. Exist- ing import regulations apply to all imports by private firms as well as by state enterprises and the Govern- ment. Payments for Invisibles All payments for current invisibles require the prior approval of the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. Residents 2 are, in principle, granted foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Bipk. 25,000 a person a calendar year for tourist travel abroad; only one trip a year is allowed for this purpose. The s tandard allocation for business travel is the equivalent of Bipk. 50,000 a trip, and only two trips a year are allowed. For study abroad and travel abroad for health reasons, foreign exchange is, in principle, granted to cover reasonable costs. Resi- dents may, in principle, send fam i ly remittances up to 30 per cent of their taxable earnings and wages. In principle, enterprises classified as "of national interest" (see section on Capital, below) may transfer abroad freely up to 25 per cent a year of the net invest- ment income generated by their exporting activities. Any additional transfer is subject to a tax of 20 per cent. The t rans fer abroad of net investment income by enter- prises classified as "of preferential interest" is subject to a 20 per cent tax. Any other enterprise w i th foreign capital participation may t rans fer net investment income, but such transfers are subject to a tax of 35 per cent on the amount transferred. In the event of at least 30 per cent of such net investment income being reinvested in Equatorial Guinea, the incidence of tax is reduced to one third its normal level. Interests on foreign loans utilized for direct investment may be remitted semiannually, subject to a tax of 8 per cent. Branches and subsidiaries of foreign companies estab- lished in Equatorial Guinea may t rans fer to their pa rent companies abroad, on account of general expenses, an amount not exceeding 10 per cent of the net annual profits of the branch or subsidiary. Transfers abroad in respect of patents, trademarks, and royalties are, in principle, permitted freely, subject to prior review by the Bank of Equatorial Guinea and to a tax of 25 per cent of the amount remitted. 2 Residents are defined as persons remaining in Equatorial Guinea for more than six months in a calendar year or for more than six months in two consecutive calendar years. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA Travelers may not take out more than Bipk. 1,000 a person in domestic banknotes. Residents may only take out foreign bankno tes and coin acquired from the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. Nonresidents may take out for- eign bankno tes and coin up to the amount that they declared at the time of entry. Any excess, however, may be authorized if appropriate documentation is presented that the excess was obtained from a resident in a lawful manner. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require an export license. Licenses are no rma l ly valid for three months. All export proceeds must be surrendered to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea w i th in 45 days of their receipt. Although exports can be freely effected by any licensed exporter, the Chambers of Commerce, Agriculture, and Forestry of Bioko and Rio Mun i, which operate as pr iva te, nonprof i t, cooperative associations, have juris- diction over the marketing of most agricultural exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be sur- rendered to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea within 15 days. Travelers may br ing in any amount of fore ign bankno tes and coin, but the import of domestic currency by travelers is limited to B ipk. 1,000 a person. Capital All imports and exports of capital require approval by the Bank of Equatorial Gu inea. In addition, all exports and imports of cap i tal by the State must be sub- ject to a prior evaluation by the Technical Cabinet. Capital receipts in foreign currency must be surrendered to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. The approval of a foreign loan contract au toma t ica l ly gives the right to the borrower to make payments abroad for interests, commissions, and amortization specified in the approved contract. Without the explicit approval of the Bank of Equa- torial Guinea, no Equatorial Guinean companies or persons residing in Equatorial Guinea may hold accounts in foreign currency either in local or in for- eign banks. Foreign residents in Equatorial Guinea are subject to the same regulation only with regard to the foreign exchange acquired as a result of their activities in E'quatorial Gu inea; they may hold foreign cu r r en cy accounts in local or in foreign banks with regard to fore ign exchange acquired as a result of activities carried out abroad. These provisions apply also w i th regard to the proceeds f rom exports and f rom invisibles. Under the Foreign Inves tment Law of November 17, 1979 three categories of fore ign investment are recog- n ized: ( 1) inves tmen ts "of na t ional interest" (ma in ly in indus t r ial or fo res t ry enterprises engaged in the export t r a d e ); (2) inves tmen ts "of preferen t ial interest" (ma in ly in enterprises engaged in import sub s t i tu t ion ); and (3) nonqua l if ied inves tmen ts. Investments by na t iona ls of or entities domiciled in South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. A ll fo re ign inves tmen ts requ ire the approval of the Presidency. If au tho r i z a t ion is given by the Presidency, the Gove rnment or c i t izens of Equatorial Guinea may own stocks of fo re ign enterprises estab- lished in Equa to r ial G u i n ea not exceeding 25 per cent of the cap i ta l. The fore ign share in Equa tor ial Gu inean enterprises m ight exceed 50 per cent of the capital. Foreign loans and capital utilized for f inanc ing direct inves tment may be repa tr ia ted a n n u a l ly up to the amor- t iza t ion of fixed assets, free of taxes. The t rans fer abroad of f u n ds f rom the sale of fixed assets and finan- cial assets by alien residents or by non res iden ts is, in pr inc ip le, perm i t ted as fo l lows: 50 per cent of the total amount realized net of taxes may be remitted abroad immed ia te ly and the balance in 24 equal monthly ins ta l lmen ts. The sale of real estate, however, requires pr ior approval. Gold All purchases and sales of m in ted gold and gold bars are cen t ra l ized in the Bank of Equa tor ial Gu inea, which also has a monopoly over the import and export of m in ted gold and gold bars. Except for jewelry, resi- den ts are not permitted to hold gold. Changes during 1981 March 16. A new currency, the ekwele (plural b ipkwe le ), replaced the old ekuele at the rate of one to one. September 30. A Technical Cabinet was established to replace the Executive Committee for Economic Policy (CEPE). 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position on December 31, 2981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ethiopia is the Ethiopian Birr, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the official rate of Br 2.07 = US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also officially posted; daily quotations by the National Bank of Ethiopia (the central b a n k) are set on the basis of the official rate for the U.S. dollar and the previous day's closing rate of the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar in London. The National Bank does not deal with the public; its transactions in U.S. dollars with the authorized dealers take place at the official rate. Authorized dealers must observe the official rate for the U.S. dol- lar and prescribed commission charges, which accrue to the National Bank, of 0.50 per cent buying and 1.50 per cent selling; in addition, they are authorized, but not obliged, to levy service charges for their own account of up to 0.25 per cent buying and 0.75 per cent selling and, for currencies other than the U.S. dollar, to include the margin charges applied by the correspondents abroad. In practice, the authorized charges are usually levied. These commissions are applied also to the National Bank's dealings with the Government and certain public sector entities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers require the approval of the National Bank to undertake forward exchange transac- tions. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized dealers under the control of the National Bank. All payments abroad require licenses issued by the Exchange Controller, whose office is a divi- sion of the National Bank. All exports are licensed by the Exchange Controller to ensure the surrender of the foreign exchange proceeds, and shipments require per- mits issued by that office. The Minister of Foreign Trade has statutory authority to prohibit, restrict, or regulate imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in convertible foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or in U.S. dollars. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency that is freely convertible, or in any other acceptable foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may, subject to exchange control approval, open nonresident accounts either in birr or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. Deposits to these accounts can only be made in foreign exchange. Balances on nonresident foreign currency accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between non- resident accounts do not require prior approval. Mem- bers of the diplomatic community must use transferable or nontransferable birr accounts for payments of local expenses. No resident Ethiopian national may ma in ta in a bank account abroad. Blocked accounts of nonresidents are maintained with authorized banks and are used to retain funds in excess of Br 20,000 arising from disinvestments in Ethiopia (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments abroad for imports require exchange licenses, which are obtainable upon presentation of a valid importer's license. Approval of applications for exchange licenses is conditional upon the provision of satisfactory informa t ion on costs and payment terms and the sub- mission of evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged with the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation, par- ticularly for goods imported under letters of credit. For- eign exchange is not made available for imports of goods (including alcoholic beverages and other consumer goods) considered to be nonessential or readily substitut- able by domestic products. Exchange licenses are granted in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any convertible currency that may be requested. Payments by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight are all normally acceptable. However, the National Bank must be consulted regarding imports on a cash against documents basis. Goods that were previously subject to advance deposit requirements (about 100 items, mostly consumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis, and virtually no imports take place on this basis. Importation on suppliers' credit is prohibited except for goods such as raw and intermediate materials, pharma- ceuticals, and machinery and transport equipment, in which case prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit is required. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign employees may remit monthly up to 30 per cent of their net earnings (but only for the first three years of their contract if employed by the private sec tor); they may remit a maximum ranging between 40 per cent and 50 per cent of total net earnings during the period of service and upon final departure. Other expatriate employees may on final departure take out the same maximum amount, but not more than Br 20,000 in any one year. Foreign nationals who are not entitled to remittance facilities may, however, remit up to 30 per 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA cent of their net earnings for the education of their chil- dren. Persons traveling abroad are allowed fore ign exchange equivalent to Br 125 a day for a maximum period of 30 days in any one calendar year if the journey is made for business purposes; for tourism, persons 18 years of age or over are allowed up to the equivalent of Br 600 a year. Students are allowed foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Br 500 for study abroad, and Ethiopian nationals having dependents pursuing higher studies in accredited institutions abroad are allowed to remit funds to meet school fees and reasonable expenses. Residents may remit premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 1962. Subject to certain limits and to submission of evidence, persons may obtain for- eign exchange for medical treatment and travel abroad. Af ter providing for payment of local taxes, foreign com- panies may, in principle, remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Travel- ers may take with them a maximum of Br 10 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of most cereals to any destination other than Djibouti also are prohibited. Exports of horsebeans are suspended. All commodity exports require permits from the Exchange Controller and some require, in addition, the approval of specified public bodies. When applying for a permit, an exporter must specify the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. For exports on a c.i.f. basis, exporters must obtain fu ll insurance from the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation. The granting of a permit by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank, generally within three months, and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate cur- rency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in Br 50 in Ethiopian currency. Foreign exchange must be declared by travel- ers on entry, and its re-export is subject to authorization, except for temporary visitors. Reconversion of birr must be supported by documentary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. lation of external debt, and to keep the authorities informed of the country's external debt position. All receipts of capital in the fo rm of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Exchange control authorization is required, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities establishes evidence of receipt, which is required for repatriation. Foreign capital may participate with the Government in specified areas, such as large-scale construction, tour ism, and the exploration for and production of hydrocarbons and most other minerals. All recognized and registered for- eign investments may be terminated on presentation of documents regarding liquidation and payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropriate documen- tation, foreign businessmen having nonregistered invest- ments may transfer their capital abroad on liquidation and final depar ture from Ethiopia, but may not transfer more than Br 20,000 in any one calendar year; funds in excess of this amount must be deposited in a blocked account w i th an authorized bank. Transfers by emigrants who had operated their own businesses are restricted to Br 20,000 in any one calendar year. Borrowing abroad requires exchange control approval and is restricted. Authorized banks may freely place their funds abroad, except on fixed-term deposit, but they may not acquire securities denominated in foreign currency w i thout National Bank permission. In addition, they need the prior approval of the Na t ional Bank to overdraw their accounts w i th fore ign correspondents, to borrow funds abroad, or to accept deposits in foreign currency. Gold The ownership of personal jewelry of which gold or p la t inum forms a part is permitted. Unless specifically authorized by the Minister of Mines, Energy, and Water Resources, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or p la t inum, or of gold or platinum in the fo rm of nuggets, ores, or bullion, is not permitted. Newly mined gold is sold by the Treasury to the National Bank. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the National Bank. Such licenses are not normally g ran ted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Capital Changes during 1981 Controls over capital movements are designed to restrict outflows, to preclude an unwarranted accumu- No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 168 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Fiji is the Fiji Dollar, the va lue of which is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Fiji dollar and a weighted basket of cur- rencies of Fiji's most impo r tant t rad ing partners. The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dol- lar, the in terven t ion currency, is fixed da i ly on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1981 buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar were F$0.8748 and F$0.8787, respectively, per US$1. The Central Mone- tary Au tho r i ty of Fiji provides off ic ial quotations only for the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On August 4, 1972 F i ji f o rm a l ly accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Monetary Au thor i ty, acting as agent of the Govern- ment. The Central Monetary Au tho r i ty delegates to authorized dealers the au thor i ty to approve normal import payments. Except w i th the specific permission of the Central Mone tary Au thor i ty, residents of F i ji are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer all foreign currencies they receive.1 The Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Cooperatives is responsible for the issue of import licenses, with the exception of those for gold, timber, rice, and da iry products. Import licenses for gold are issued by the M in is try of Finance, for timber by the Ministry of Forestry, and for rice and dairy products by the Ministry of Agriculture and Fish- eries. Export licenses are issued by the Comptroller of Customs. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all coun tr ies are sub ject to exchange control. Settlements with residents of any country may be made in Fiji currency th rough an External Account or in any fore ign currency. Payments for exports to any destination outside Fiji may be made in Fiji currency from an External Account or in any fore ign currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident2 may ma in ta in an External Account in Fiji currency or a foreign currency account w i th an authorized bank; such accounts may be opened without the specific approval of the Central Monetary Authority. These accounts may be credited freely with interest 1 Under Fiji's exchange control regu la t ions, fo re ign currencies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. aA nonresident is a person or firm whose coun t ry of normal domicile or established residence is a coun t ry other than Fiji. As regards individuals, a resident of Fiji is a person who either has lived or intends to continue living in Fiji for at least three years. payable on the account, with payments from other Ex ternal Accounts, with the proceeds of sale of fore ign currency or foreign coin by the account holder, and w i th Fiji currency notes which the account holder brought into Fiji or acquired by debit to an Ex ternal Account or by the sale of fore ign currency in the coun- try du r ing a temporary visit. Ex te rnal Accoun ts also may be credited with payments by residents for which either a general or a specific au tho r i ty has been given. Ex te rnal Accoun ts may be debited for paymen ts to resi- dents of Fiji, t rans fe rs to other Ex ternal Accounts, pay- men ts in cash in Fiji, and purchases of fore ign exchange. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most goods are under open general license, a l though imports of a number of goods, inc lud ing tea, mild steel bars, certain foods tu f fs, alcoholic beverages, kerosene stoves, seed potatoes, po lyv inyl chloride pipes, polypropylene ropes, louvre w indow f rame s, shirts, wood screws, and incense sticks and chemicals used as raw ma ter ia ls in their m a n u f a c t u re are subject to ind iv idual impo rt licensing; licenses for some of these items are issued restrictively. Import prohibitions are imposed on a few commodities f rom all sources, ma in ly for security, health, or public policy reasons. Payments for authorized imports are pe rm i t ted upon app l ica t ion and submission of documen ta ry evidence to authorized dealers who may allow paymen ts for goods wh ich have been imported under either a specific import license or an open general license. Au thor ized banks may allow advance paymen ts for a ll imports, provided the goods are imported into Fiji w i th in 90 days of the da te the payment is made. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are permitted either under a delegated au tho r i ty to banks or, where large amoun ts or nondelegated payments are involved, upon application to the Central Monetary Authority. Payments may be made freely for all bona fide current transactions. Resi- dents of Fiji traveling to other countries may obtain f rom a bank, w i thout reference to the Central Mone tary Au thor i ty, a foreign currency travel allowance for pri- vate or business travel up to the equivalent of F$2,000 a person a journey. For an extended visit, a traveler may apply before his depar ture to the Central Mone- ta ry Au tho r i ty for funds in excess of F$2,000 a person; applications may also be made f rom abroad through the traveler's bank. There is no restriction on the number of trips a resident may make in any one year. Each traveler may take with him F$100 in Fiji currency and the equivalent of F$500 in other currencies, provided that these amoun ts are not in addition to travel allow- ances approved by a bank or the Central Monetary Authority. 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required only for exports of rice, sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain lumber, scrap metals, certain animals, and a few other items. Irrespec- tive of any export licensing requirements, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of all goods with an f.o.b. value exceeding F$ 1,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Exporters are required to collect the proceeds of exports within six months of the date of exportation of the goods from Fiji, and may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months without specific permission. All foreign cur- rencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer within one month of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in Fiji notes or foreign currency notes. Resi- dent travelers are required to sell their foreign currency holdings to an authorized dealer within one month of return. Capital The inflow of capital in any form requires specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority. Foreign investment in Fiji normally is expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. All capital outflows are subject to prior approval. Capital trans- fers by residents to finance direct investments require the specific permission of the Central Monetary Author- ity and are permitted only where benefits will accrue to Fiji within a reasonably short period. All authorized banks operating in Fiji are required to obtain prior authorization f rom the Central Monetary Authority for transactions involving F$ 50,000 or more arising from (1) the conversion of foreign currency into Fiji currency, whether for credit to a resident account or an External Account and (2) the crediting of an External Account with Fiji currency emanating from another External Account (including Fiji currency accounts of overseas banks ). Banks also require the approval of the Central Monetary Authority before granting any loans to a company or branch in Fiji (other than a bank) which is controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Fiji or by indi- viduals designated as nonresidents; however, banks do not require such approval to lend up to F$5,000—for any period and any purpose —to individual nonresident customers. Banks may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority, and residents require per- mission from the Central Monetary Authority before they may borrow foreign currency within Fiji or outside. The transfer of inheritances and dowries due to non- 170 residents is permitted, as is the transfer of the proceeds from the sale of a house owned by a nonresident. Resi- dents of Fiji are allowed to make cash g if ts to non- residents equivalent to F$500 a donor a year; addi- tional funds are permitted in compassionate cases. Emigrants may take out their entire net assets on departure. With the prior approval of the Central Monetary Authority, residents are permitted to purchase foreign currency up to a maximum of F$5,000 a person a year to acquire foreign currency securities. The purchase of personal real property outside Fiji is not permitted. Portfolio investment in Fiji by nonresidents requires approval by the Central Monetary Authority; the pro- ceeds of the sale or realization of such investment may be repatriated. Banks require exchange control per- mission to borrow abroad; they may accept deposits from nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coin in Fiji but not gold bullion. The export of gold coin, except numismatic coins and collectors' pieces, requires the specific permission of the Central Mone- tary Authority. Gold imports from all sources, other than imports of gold coin, require a specific import license issued by the Ministry of Finance; these are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coin is free of customs duty and fiscal tax, while gold bullion is exempt from customs duty but is subject to a fiscal tax of 7.5 per cent. Gold jewelry is subject to a fiscal duty of 10 per cent but does not require any license when valued at less than F$200; samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufac turers require import licenses if over F$200 in value. Exports of gold jewelry do not require licenses and are free of export duty. All newly mined gold is sold in Australia at free market prices. Commemorative gold coins of F$100, F$200, and F$250 have been issued; these are legal tender but do not normally circulate. Changes during 1981 January 1. The quota on imports of vehicles was replaced by import ta r i f fs ranging from 57.5 per cent to 147.5 per cent. September 1. Import licensing requirements were introduced for the importation of louvre window frames, spirits, liqueurs, and other alcoholic beverages. September 14. Individual licensing requirements were introduced on imports of shirts of all kinds, mos- quito coils, wheelbarrows, kerosene stoves, and wood screws. November 1. Additional commodities were brought under special import licensing, to be administered by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Coopera- tives; in addition, several changes were made in the rates of import duty. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Finland is the Finnish Markka. The external value of the ma rkka is defined in terms of an index reflecting a weighted average of the exchange rates of the currencies most impo r tant for Finland's foreign trade. These are defined as the currencies of countries that have accounted for not less than 1 per cent of Finland's commodity imports and exports in each of the preceding three ca lendar years; if a t rad ing partner's currency is not regu lar ly quoted by the Bank of Finland, the ra te used for that cu r rency is the one in which trade w i th that coun t ry is common ly denomi- nated. The value of the exchange rate index is ma in- tained by the Bank of F in land w i th in a marg in estab- lished by the Cabinet; since Janua ry 1980 the range has been 112.0-119.0 (1974 = 100). The ac tual level of the index has been 113.1 since March 1980. The Bank of Finland calculates the currency index on a da i ly basis, but only monthly averages of the index numbe rs are pub- lished. Daily (noon) buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, are quoted by the Bank of Finland. On December 31, 1981 the rates were Fmk 4.348 and Fmk 4.366 per US$1, respectively. The rates for the U.S. dollar are applicable also to clear- ing dollars. Buy ing and selling rates for the clearing ruble are based on the rates of the State Bank of the U.S.S.R. for the U.S. dollar aga inst the ruble. Quota- tions for other currencies are based on ma rket cross rates. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with residents, and w i th nonresident banks in U.S. dollars and other convertible currencies. Forward premiums and discounts quoted by authorized banks reflect inter- est rate differences in various currencies. The Bank of Finland quotes daily fo rwa rd rates for the clearing ruble, at which authorized banks may cover their contracts with residents in regard to transactions permitted by exchange control regulations. Finland forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, as from September 25, 1979. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system, delegating au thor i ty to the au thor ized exchange dealers (ma in ly commercial b ank s ). Import and export licensing is administered by the Export and Import Per- mits Office (a unit subordinate to the M in is t ry of Trade and I n d u s t r y ), which is headed by a Board composed of government officials, inc lud ing a representative of the Bank of Finland. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries1 and the convertible currency countries (all o the rs ). Settle- ments with the bilateral countries must be made in the currency of the agreement ( the clearing ruble for the U.S.S.R., the clearing Finnish ma rkka for the People's Republic of China, and the clearing U.S. dollar in all other cases). Settlements with the convertible currency coun t r ies may be made in any convertible currency or th rough Convertible Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Convertible Accounts, Restricted Accoun ts, and Cap i tal Accounts. Convertible Accounts are held by nonres iden ts in F inn ish m a rkk aa or in conver t ib le cu r renc ies. These accounts may be credited by an authorized bank w i th amounts t rans fe r red f rom other Convertible Accounts, w i th F inn ish cu r rency received directly f rom a fo re ign bank or imported in to Finland, w i th amoun ts which the bank would be authorized to t ran s fer abroad, w i th amoun ts of convertible currency received by the bank, and w i th interest accrued on f u n ds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited freely and balances may be t rans fe r red abroad to any coun try. Restricted Accounts are held by residents of coun tr ies w i th which Finland has b i la teral paymen ts arrangemen ts, and are designated according to the holder's coun t ry of residence. They may be held in Finnish m a r k k aa or the appropriate bilateral payments agreement currency. They may be credited by an authorized bank with amoun ts transferred f rom Conver t ib le Accounts and f rom Restricted Accounts related to the same coun try. The accounts may also be credited w i th Finnish cur- rency received f rom a bank in the country indicated on the account, with amounts which the b ank is authorized to receive to the credit of a Restricted Account related to the country indicated on the accoun t, with currency surrendered to the bank and restricted to the coun try indicated on the account, and w i th interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited freely and balances may be t ran s fe r red to the b i la teral country concerned. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonresident accounts. They are held in ma rkkaa and are in tended p r ima r i ly for payments of a capital na tu re. The assign- ment of a Capital Account to another nonres ident and the t rans fer abroad of funds held in such an account may be effected (with some m inor excep t ions) only with the permission of the Bank of F in land. A mone- 1 W i th the te rm ina t ion at the end of 1981 of the bilateral paymen ts ag reement with Roman ia, the countries w i th which F in land ma in ta ined such agreemen ts in opera t ive te rms as of t h at date consisted of Bu lga r ia, People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, the G e rm an Democratic Repub- lic, Hung a ry, and the U.S.S.R. (Transac t ions under the ag reemen ts w i th Czechoslovakia and Poland have been settled in f ree ly convertible U.S. dollars since 1970 under agreements reached separately for each yea r .) 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND tary institution may credit a Capital Account with the purchase price of assets other than foreign securities bought from the holder by a resident, with funds received as an inheritance, and w i th redemption payments and interest on matured bonds and debentures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange. These accounts may also be credited with rent on property owned in Finland by the holder of the account, with proceeds from other assets belonging to the holder of the account and man- aged by the monetary institution with which the account is held, with the amount of a loan based on a contract granting to a nonresident a loan not exceeding Fmk 50,000 in value to be utilized in Finland, and w i th interest accrued on funds held in the account. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for noncom- mercial current expenses in Finland of and for account of the holder, and funds in Capital Accounts may be used for capital payments when the transaction does not require authorization or is authorized for transfer- able funds. The Bank of Finland generally grants per- mission for transfer abroad of funds deposited in Capi- tal Accounts to an account holder who has resided abroad dur ing the last calendar year and who continues to do so. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported free of license from the multilateral countries, provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in those countries. How- ever, certain goods 2 may be imported from the multi- lateral area under a global quota system, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of quotas for specified commodity groups. The total value of the global quota imports for 1981 was 0.8 per cent of total 1981 imports. The only commodities still subject to restrictions for the multilateral area are cer- tain agricultural commodities and fuels and petroleum products. Import licenses are not required for most commodi- ties originating in and purchased from the U.S.S.R., or originating in and purchased from the five countries with which agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade have been concluded (Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, and Poland). All imports of commodities originating in countries not classified in either the multi- lateral area or the bilateral a r e a3 require individual licenses. The State Granary is the main agency for the import of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products of these grains for human consumption, but individual importers may also import these commodities under license. There is a state monopoly for imports of alcoholic beverages. Exchange is granted by authorized banks for all per- mitted imports on presentation of an application fo rm, the import license if required, and the original commer- 2 Agr icu l tural commodities, fish, fuels and other petroleum prod- ucts, and unw rought gold and silver. 3 Including the People's Republic of China and Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 172 cial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the coun try or there is su f f ic ient evidence to guaran tee their importation. Payment for imports must be made with- in 12 mon ths a f ter the date of customs clearance of the goods; if the period of suppliers' credit exceeds 6 months, the credit is subject to an "overtime fee," unless spe- cially authorized by the Bank of F in land; if the pay- ment is made to the seller through an import financing credit, the credit period may not exceed 3 months. The Bank of Finland applies quotas within which the banks can negotiate credits f rom fore ign banks to finance advances to importers. Payments for Invisibles Payments in respect of authorized invisibles are not restricted. The authorized banks have general permis- sion to effect payments for most cu r rent invisibles, with a few exceptions relating to insurance, subject in some cases to a max imum allowance or other conditions; for amoun ts in excess of the s tanda rd allowances and for purposes for which no standard allowances have been set, exchange licenses are granted f ree ly by the Bank of Finland. All contracts invo lv ing paymen ts to nonresi- dents for which general permission has not been granted must be submitted to the Bank of Finland for approval. For m inor payments, authorized banks may provide foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 2,000 a calendar mon th for each remitter. A Finnish resident t rave l ing abroad may purchase f rom commercial banks foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 5,000 a tr ip. Once abroad a traveler may with- draw foreign exchange on a bank account passbook or check issued by a Finnish monetary ins t i tu t ion, provided that the utilized amount of his travel allocation does not exceed a total of Fmk 5,000. A resident traveler may use a credit card abroad for travel services and settle the transaction af ter his re turn. Nonresident travelers may take out Fmk 5,000 a tr ip in Finnish notes and coin and any amount in fore ien notes and coin declared upon entry; resident travelers may take out foreign or domestic currency, or any combination of these, up to Fmk 5,000, but in ne i ther case may notes of a denomination h igher than Fmk 100 be exported. For all types of travel, bona fide applications for additional amounts of foreign exchange are approved by the Bank of Finland. Exports and Export Proceeds Sales of arms are strictly controlled. Exports to countries that are not in the convertible area and that are outside the scope of agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade are allocated by means of bilateral t rade arrangements. Foreign exchange acquired through commodity exports need not be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or to an authorized exchange dealer. Exporters are required to repa tr ia te foreign exchange proceeds w i th in eight days of collection, which may then be held in a fore ign currency account with an authorized bank in F i n l and or be conver ted into domestic currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom cu r rent invisibles need not be surrendered but mu st be repa tr ia ted w i th in eight days of collection. The f u n ds may be held in a foreign currency account in Finland. Any unu t i l ized foreign banknotes and travelers checks must be repatri- ated, but these are exempt f rom the su r render require- ment up to Fmk 5,000 for each resident holder. The import of Finnish and fore ign means of payment is unrestricted, w i th the exception of imports of notes w i th a nominal va lue above Fmk 100, which are p roh ib i ted. Capital Most ou tward transfers of nonresident cap i tal are subject to approval by the Bank of F in land. Inher i tances are transferred au toma t ica l ly to the benef ic iar ies. Per- sons who have resided outside Finland d u r i ng the last calendar year and con t inue to do so are allowed to transfer abroad the ir assets in Finland in one lump sum, subject to the pr ior approval of the Bank of F in land. Nonresidents may purchase bonds, debentures, or shares quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange th rough an authorized bank, against convertible currencies, or by debiting a Convertible Account. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are deposited in the custody of the authorized bank, the non res ident purchaser is permitted to sell the securities on the He ls inki Stock Exchange th rough the au tho r ized bank and to repa t r ia te the proceeds of the sale in a convertible cu r rency. The acquisition of shares, bonds, and deben tures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange w i th f u n ds from Capital Accounts is also permitted au toma t ica l ly if they are acquired by an authorized bank, but proceeds f r om the sale of such securities may not be t ran s fe r red abroad without the permission of the Bank of F in land. Any other transactions in securities, and the export of securi- ties that involve nonresident interests, requ i re app rova l. If the securities were acquired w i th convertible fo re ign exchange or w i th ma rkkaa f rom a Convertible Account, approval for the ir export can be obtained f ree ly. Inward direct investments must be approved by the Bank of Finland. The Bank usually gran ts permission, unless the investment is judged to be exceptionally detrimental to the na t ional interest or to be of a pure ly financial character. Direct foreign investment in the forest and m in ing industries and in certain trad i t iona l ly regulated activities is not norma l ly permitted. On demand by the Bank of Finland, residents must declare their foreign assets, inc lud ing property owned abroad. Repatriation of au thor ized direct investments is subject to the approval of the Bank of F in land, which is f ree ly given. Outward transfers of capital, including t rans fe rs FINLAND for direct investment by residents, require ind iv idual approval. Foreign investments that involve a participa- tion of more than 20 per cent in the share cap i tal of an enterprise require the approval of the Council of State. This approval is usually granted. Proceeds f rom the sale of secu r i t ies and real prop- erty must be repatriated under the general rule of repatriation. Authorized banks are given permission to purchase specified fore ign and F inn ish securities issued abroad. Purchases of real estate abroad are authorized up to a l im it of Fmk 175,000 4 a person, subject to the approval of the Bank of Finland, which is granted liberally. Finnish emigrants are genera l ly pe rm i t ted an exchange a l lowance5 of up to Fmk 150,000 a person or, in the case of emigrating fam i l ies, Fmk 100,000 a person in addition to the basic tourist travel allowance. There is an automatic exchange allowance of up to Fmk 10,000 a calendar year for each donor for g i f ts and contribu- t ions to nonresidents. Foreign currency borrowing by F inn i sh residents, in the fo rm of short-term or long-term financial credits, inc lud ing bond issues abroad, requires the specific approval of the Bank of Finland, which exercises sur- ve i l lance over the terms and t im i n g. Lend ing to non- residents is generally restricted to export credits. No permission is needed for customary export credits. Med ium- term and long-term borrow ing abroad, other than borrowing by the State or import credits, is in some cases subject to deposit requ i remen ts by the Bank of F in land, which also sets the terms for such loans. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any fo rm in F in land. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Export and Import Permits Office; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. The global quota list contains a quota for industrial gold, for which licenses are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to the same regulations as exports of other commodities, i.e., an export control declaration approved by the Export and Import Permits Office is usua l ly sufficient. Changes during 1981 December 31. The bilateral payments agreement between Finland and Romania was terminated. 4 The limit on purchases of real estate abroad was raised Fmk 250,000 on J anu a ry 26, 1982. 5 The exchange allowance for em igran ts was raised on J anu a ry 26, 1982 to Fmk 250,000 a person or, in the case of em igra t ing families, Fmk 100,000 a person. to 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position on December 37, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the Franc. France partici- pates with Belgium, Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, France maintains the spot exchange rates between the franc and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 per cent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 per cent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of France (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1981 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 1 00 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire Francs Upper limit Lower limit 15.494 79.825 262.05 237.06 9.2265 5.0405 14.8125 76.31 250.5 226.63 8.8205 4.471 The participants in the EMS are not ma in ta in ing the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Buying and selling rates for 20 foreign currencies are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.1 On December 30, 1981 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were F 5.7425 and F 5.7535, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the currencies of the overseas territories and to the currencies of the countries that are linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Accoun t2 as follows: (1) In the overseas territories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands, the 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, Finnish ma rkkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and zaires. 2 Benin, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 174 currency used is the CFP franc, which has a fixed parity with the f r anc of CFPF 1 = F 0.055. (2) Fixed con- version rates in terms of the f ranc apply to the currencies of the Operations Account countries (see footnote 2). These rates are CFAF 1 = F 0.02 for the CFA franc, which circulates in Benin, Cameroon, the Central A f r i c an Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta, and MF 1 = F 0.01 for the Ma li f ranc. Authorized banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Authorized banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may purchase foreign exchange forward for up to three months in respect of specified import items only, but they are allowed to sell forward foreign exchange whether or not there is an unde r ly ing transac t ion. France formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations are applicable in all territories of the French Republic, i.e., in continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments (Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, Reunion, and St. Pierre and M ique lon), Mayotte, and the three Overseas Territories (Wallis and Fu tuna Islands, New Caledonia, and French Polynesia). No exchange control is applied in relation to Monaco or the Operations Account countries (see foo tno te 2 ); paymen ts between France and these coun- tries are free of restriction on the part of France and take place at fixed exchange rates. All other countries are considered fore ign countries for exchange control purposes; all payments between France and foreign countries are subject to exchange control. For imports and exports of gold, the Operations Account countries are also considered fo re ign countries. Certain controls that are independent of the exchange control regulations are maintained over inward and outward direct investment and over borrowing abroad; these transaction controls are not applicable to the Operations Account countries or Monaco, and those over direct investment do not apply to member countries of the EC. Privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions is accorded to the Operations Account countries and to Algeria, Guinea, Madagascar, Mauri- tan ia, Morocco, Tunisia, and Vanua tu. Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy is the coordinating agency in the field of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution financial relations with foreign countries. It is respon- sible for exchange control and all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and to borrowing abroad, unless they relate to real estate companies, in which case the Bank of France screens applications. The Directorate of the Treasury also evaluates the balance of payments, together with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. Certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France, including the authority to license imports and exports of gold. Other exchange control powers have been delegated to the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes and, in the Overseas Departments and Territories, to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The Directorate of Insurance of the Ministry of Economy has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, etc. The execution of all t rans fe rs has been delegated to autho- rized banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Adminis- tration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export pro- cedures and controls, within the framework of com- mercial policy directives given by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations (DREE ); the Directorate- General also issues import and export licenses, and is responsible for any litigation relating to the exchange regulations. Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the appropriate ministry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of Industry has certain respon- sibilities in respect of licensing contracts and contracts relating to technical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Operations Account countries may be made in francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury.3 Settlements with all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries or through nonresident Foreign Accounts in Francs. Importers and exporters are f ree to invoice in any currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident account in francs may be freely opened by an authorized bank for nonresidents, including French nationals (other than officials) who have been residing abroad for at least two years. All overdrafts and advances on nonresident-held f ranc accounts are subject to general or specific permission. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be freely credited with (1) the franc proceeds of the spot or forward sale of foreign currencies on the exchange market by a nonresident; (2) the franc proceeds of the sale of 8 Comprising the institutes of issue of the Operations Account coun- tries and the Overseas Institute of Issue ( for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Mayotte, and Wallis and Fu tuna Islands). FRANCE foreign banknotes to an authorized bank by a non- resident bank or a traveler; ( 3) the f ranc equivalent of an authorized bank's arbitrage in foreign currencies on a foreign market; (4) French banknotes (and those of the Operations Account countries) mailed direct from abroad to the main office of the Bank of France by an authorized bank's foreign correspondents; (5) transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) any authorized payment by a resident to a non- resident, including interest on balances in Foreign Accounts in Francs; (7) the proceeds, income, and amortization f rom French and foreign securities held in a foreign dossier in France, and the proceeds of the sale on a French stock exchange of securities denominated in French francs, including securities held by authorized banks and accruing in France to a nonres ident by dona- tion or inheritance up to F 500,000; (8) liquidation proceeds of nonresident-held direct investments;4 and (9) the proceeds of the sale, through the in termed ia t ion of a no ta ry public, of real estate belonging to non- residents. These accounts may be freely debited for (1) spot purchases of any foreign currency on the exchange market by a nonresident; (2) the purchase by a non- resident of foreign banknotes or withdrawals in French banknotes; (3) the equivalent in francs of arbitrage abroad in foreign currencies by an authorized bank; (4) French banknotes (and those of Operations Account countries) mailed by authorized banks direct to their fore ign correspondents; (5) transfers to other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) approved direct investment in France by nonresidents (see footnote 4 ); (7) pur- chases of real estate f rom residents, through the inter- mediation of a no tary public; (8) purchases in France of listed French or foreign securities; (9) interest on and repayment of loans granted in accordance with the rele- vant regulations by residents; (10) any payment by a nonresident to a resident; and ( 1 1) repayment of con- sumer and real estate loans by French banks for for- eigners living in France. If francs accruing to a nonresident are not trans- ferable, or are not immediately transferable, they may be credited to a Suspense Account in Francs in the name of the beneficiary. The unremittable funds of emigrants of French nationality must be retained in resident accounts (comptes interieurs) until they become nonresidents (i.e., until they have stayed in a foreign coun t ry for one y e a r ); em igran ts of fore ign na t iona l i ty become nonresidents immediately and, therefore, may take out all of their assets upon departure. Diplomatic personnel working in France may hold resident and nonresident accounts. In addition, nonresidents may hold foreign currency accounts with French and foreign- owned banks. 4 Subject to compliance with the provisions of Decree No. 68-1021 of November 24, 1968, as amended by Decree No. 71-144 of Feb- ruary 22, 1971, Decree No. 72-365 of May 5, 1972, and Decree No. 80-618 of August 4, 1980. 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Imports and Import Payments Goods originating in and shipped from other countries that are accorded privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are generally admitted free of quanti- tative restrictions and individual licenses. Imports of goods which originate in other countries and are not covered by French import liberalization require indi- vidual licenses. Some imports from EC countries and some other imports from non-EC countries are subject to minimum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Certain imports require certificates of origin. For import control purposes, countries other than those that are accorded privileged treatment are divided into four groups according to the extent of import liberalization: (1) the former OEEC countries, their dependent territories and certain former dependent territories, Andorra, Canada, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Liberia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, the United States, Western Samoa, and Yugoslavia; (2) some specified countries;5 (3) the Eastern European countries (Albania, Bulgaria, Czecho- slovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R.), the People's Republic of China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Mongolia; and (4) the German Democratic Republic. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one country may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the same degree of liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quantitative restric- tions, but restrictions are applied to a number of agricul- tural products; there is relatively little difference between the lists of goods which may be imported freely from dif- ferent countries in this group, these differences relating mainly to Hong Kong. Imports of certain industrial prod- ucts from countries in group (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain additional industrial products from group (3) countries. For some commodities, there are global quotas that are allocated annually (petroleum and petroleum products) or semiannually and apply to all countries (other than those that have bilaterally negotiated quotas or receive privileged treatment). Imports from all countries of certain agricultural items and certain raw materials are free of quantitative restrictions. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC 5 Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Japan, Republic of Korea, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen Arab Republic, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. 176 are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade controls, but do require a customs document that constitutes the customs declaration. However, as an exchange control measure, the domiciliation (registration) of the import transaction at an authorized bank may be prescribed. For some liberalized imports, an administrative visa issued by the Central Customs Administration or by the appropriate ministry is required on an import declara- tion. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Community require such administrative visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. Other imports generally require individual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas determined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and are applicable to specified countries or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Payments for imports from foreign countries must be made by credit to a Foreign Account in Francs or with foreign currency purchased in the French exchange market. Import transactions relating to foreign countries and valued at F 125,000 or more must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the import must be made. The amounts that may be transferred through postal chan- nels are not subject to limitation, but in practice, the Postal Administration does not make import payments valued at over F 125,000, as it does not undertake domiciliation. Authorized banks may without special authorization permit advance payments to be made that are provided for in the commercial contract, up to 30 per cent of the price for capital goods and up to 10 per cent for all other goods. Higher advance payments require prior approval by the Customs Administration. For all imports, importers may purchase spot foreign currency two working days before utilization; utilization cannot take place before the payment falls due. There is no restriction on the use of suppliers' credit. Forward cover for import payments is limited to specified commodities, namely, green coffee, rice, hides and skins, hairs, wool, cotton, and cotton waste. Forward cover must not exceed three months and must be carried out in the currency stipulated in the contract and be terminated not later than the day of the settlement; should settle- ment be effected before the expiration of three months, the operation must be canceled for the rema in ing period. If the settlement of the contract is deferred, the forward covering can be extended for a max imum of eight days without prior authorization. In cases where the contract is canceled, the covering operation must be terminated immediately. If the cancellation results in a foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange profit, the bank involved must inform the monetary authorities. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles to foreign countries are controlled but are not restricted as to amount. If justifying documents are presented and certain exchange control requirements are met, authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments for many categories of current invisibles without any limita- tion; for certain other categories of current invisibles, established limits have been set. Applications for all other payments for invisibles and for amounts in excess of established limits are referred to the Bank of France to prevent unauthorized capital transfers; such applica- tions are approved if a genuine current payment is involved. Any resident may freely and at any time make remittances abroad up to the equivalent of F 3,000 a person, provided that the transfers do not serve as a means of accumulating funds abroad. Payments that may be authorized without limitation by authorized banks include those related to approved trade transactions; income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties; banking commissions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes; specified insurance payments; fees to medical doctors, lawyers, etc.; alimony in accordance with court decisions; and net salaries or wages of foreigners employed in France, provided that the transfer takes place within three months from the date of payment. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, certain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include certain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries by residents (defined for this purpose as including residents of Operations Account countries) is the equivalent of F 5,000 a person a trip, which may be taken up for any number of trips a year. The basic allocation for business travel is the same plus the equivalent of F 1,000 a person a day. Applications for exchange in excess of the basic allowance for any type of travel are approved by the Bank of France, provided that no capital outflow is involved. Any unutilized foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of F 1,000 must be surrendered within one month upon return to France. Applications for travel exchange cannot be submitted earlier than one month before departure. The use abroad of credit cards issued in France is unrestricted for the settlement of travel expenditures; in addition, the holder may use them to obtain funds from banks abroad up to F 2,000 a week. All fares for trips starting in France may be paid in francs, as may hotel costs and other transportation expenses. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out F 5,000 in French banknotes. These banknotes may be FRANCE used abroad, and any amount taken out is charged against the basic exchange allocation of F 5,000. Non- resident travelers may take out F 5,000 in French banknotes and may reconvert into foreign currency in the French exchange market any French banknotes up to F 5,000 obtained by the conversion in that market of foreign means of payment that they declared upon entry or obtained by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; any remaining French banknotes must be deposited with the customs against issuance of a receipt. Resident travelers may freely take out the equivalent of F 5,000 in means of payments acquired in the exchange market against a tourist travel allocation. Nonresident travelers may not, in principle, take out more than the equivalent of F 5,000 in foreign bank- notes, unless these were declared upon entry and the amount to be taken out does not exceed that imported minus any amounts exchanged for francs plus any reconversion of francs into foreign currencies. However, nonresident travelers may freely take out any other means of payment established in their name abroad; in addition, subject to the submission of an authorized bank's declaration, they may take out any amount in foreign banknotes or foreign currency travelers checks acquired in France from an authorized bank by con- version of foreign exchange in the French exchange market, by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs, or by debit to a foreign currency account. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may be exported only under a special license. Some other exports also require individual licenses, but if the total value does not exceed F 1,000 (F 5,000 for art objects or collectors' items), these exports may be permitted without any formality, subject to certain exceptions. Exports to foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Payment must be received through the exchange market. The repa tr ia t ion6 and, where appropriate, the surrender by sale in the exchange market of proceeds f rom exports to foreign countries are required not later than one month from export deliveries. Small busi- ness exporters may be authorized by the Bank of France to deposit up to 5 per cent of export receipts or F 30,000 a month, whichever is lower, in foreign cur- rency accounts. Authorized banks may freely extend foreign currency advances to exporters; such advances and their repayment may be settled in the exchange market, as may the proceeds from the discounting of foreign currency drafts presented by exporters. The due date of the commercial contract may not be more than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination, except with special authorization or when a guarantee by the Compagnie Franchise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Exterieur (COFACE) has been obtained. For 8 Repatriation may take place either by collection of foreign cur- rency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE values exceeding the equivalent of F 50,000, export proceeds must not be received in French or foreign banknotes or banknotes issued by an institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, or by debit to a postal checking account in France; in addition, for such amounts, exporters are required within one month from the date of shipment to sell on a spot or forward basis 90 per cent of the foreign currency proceeds from exports. All export transactions related to foreign countries and valued at F 125,000 or more must be domiciled with an autho- rized bank; the Director-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes, however, may exempt certain approved firms from domiciliation requirements. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports, even when paid for in francs, and are exempt from taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with Monaco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets (with the exception of income from work in border areas) must be repatriated and, where appropriate, surrendered within one month from the due date and in any case within eight working days of receipt. With minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin (except gold coin) in francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any foreign currency; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Resident travelers must sell in the exchange market any foreign banknotes or travelers checks in excess of F 1,000 within a month of entry. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers between France and all other countries are subject to exchange control approval. With the exception of purchases of French and foreign securities abroad, outward transfers of resident-owned capital generally are restricted; capital receipts from foreign countries are permitted freely, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered by sale in the exchange market (but see below for special con- trols over borrowing abroad and over inward direct investment). Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. Residents are freely permitted to purchase real estate abroad for personal use as their principal or secondary residence, up to F 150,000 a family unit. The transfer abroad of nonresident-owned 178 funds, including the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by non- residents may be exported, provided that they have been deposited with an authorized bank in a foreign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobilieres); French securities held under a foreign dossier can also be sold in France and the sales proceeds can be trans- ferred abroad. Foreign securities held in France by a nonresident must be deposited with an authorized bank; French securities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but cannot be dealt with or exported unless they have been deposited. Foreign securities held in France by residents must be deposited with a qualified bank or broker. Residents may hold French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a French authorized bank or broker. The export for the account of residents of French securities held in France is prohibited, except when they are to be sold abroad. Subject to compliance with the special regulations concerning inward and outward direct investment that are summarized below, and the provision of the devise litre system,7 residents may purchase French and for- eign securities on stock exchanges abroad, through authorized banks, except, however, equ i t ies with a m a t u r i ty of less than five years issued by fore ign govern- ments.8 French and fore ign securities may be held or sold abroad, but they may also be imported and then either be held or be sold on a French stock exchange. The proceeds of the sale abroad of securities denomi- nated in foreign currency may be reinvested in such securities not la ter than one mon th f rom the selling date, or be sold to another resident on the devise litre market w i th in the same per iod; beyond the time limits, the proceeds in foreign currency must be sold in the exchange marke t. Correspondingly, nonresidents hold- ing French or foreign securities abroad (whether acquired before November 24, 1968 or later) may freely import them into France and hold them in a foreign dossier. Only French securities may, however, be sold in France, with the proceeds being repatriable by non- residents. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad and over inward and outward direct investment. In principle, these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. At present, however, their application is in many instances affected by exchange control require- 7 Under the devise titre system, purchases of fore ign securities by residents are required to be matched by the proceeds from sales of such securities by residents. The devise titre is the un it of account in which these matching operations are denominated, and its value can f luc tua te on the basis of domestic demand and supply of foreign securities. 8 The existing general permissions do not cover the sale in France by nonresidents, or the purchase abroad by residents, of securities that are not quoted on a recognized stock exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ments. With the exception of the controls over capital issues in France, the transaction controls do not apply to the Operations Account countries. Furthermore, the transaction controls over direct investment are not applicable to member countries of the EC, where direct investment transactions are subject to exchange control declaration and exchange control approval only. Foreign direct investments in France and French direct investments abroad, including loans constituting a direct investment, require prior declaration to the Minister of Economy; as regards member countries of the EC, the declaration is required under the exchange control regulations rather than under the special trans- action controls. Unless specifically exempted, at least three fou r ths of direct investment abroad must be financed f rom fo re ign currency borrowing. In principle, fore ign companies domiciled in EC member countries are free to take over any par t ic ipa t ion in the equity capital of a French company. The Directorate of the Treasury is, however, entitled to issue a finding w i th in two months to forbid such par t ic ipa t ion should it be deemed to jeopardize public health, order, security, or defense, or thought to be sought on account of a third par ty outside the EC. For coun t r ies outside the EC, prior exchange control au thor iza t ion is required for all direct inves tment operations l iab le to involve a capital movement. Direct investments are defined as invest- ments lead ing to control of a company or enterprise. Mere par t ic ipa t ion is not considered as direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a firm whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange; any participation in any other type of firm may be considered a direct investment. The Direc- torate of the Treasury, in eva lua t ing the degree of con- trol, takes into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, pa ten ts and licenses, commercial contracts, etc. Loans granted by a parent company to its subsidiary are subject to the same regulations as direct investments. If the amount involved is more than F 1 million, documen ta ry evidence must be submitted to the Directorate of the Treasury before the liquidation proceeds of foreign direct inves tmen ts in France may be transferred abroad, and the liquidation itself must be reported to the M in is ter w i th in 20 days a f ter it takes place. As an exception to the declaration and approval requirements summarized above, the making or liquida- tion of direct investments abroad by residents is exempt from prior declaration or prior authorization when the amount involved does not exceed F 1 m i l l ion a year for each beneficiary firm abroad, and provided that the transactions do not involve holding companies, invest- ment companies, investment trusts, unit trusts, mutual funds, or companies whose purpose it is to facilitate the financing or treasury functions of enterprises belonging to one or more groups, as well as the financing of investments in agriculture and real estate. Certain FRANCE inward direct investment up to F 5 million a trans- action also is exempt f rom prior declaration or autho- r iza t ion. Foreign issues on the French capital market are subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy. The requirement is applicable also to the Operations Account countries. Exempt f rom authoriza- t ion, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a gu a r an t ee f rom the French Gov- ernment and (2) shares similar to securities that already are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires p r ior autho- rization by the Minister of Economy. The fo l low ing types of borrowing are, in principle, exempt f rom this authorization: (1) borrowing by industrial firms for the execution of works abroad; (2) borrowing by any type of firm to finance imports or exports of goods; (3) loans related to certain international merchan t ing transactions; (4) borrowing related to the performance of services (other than income from labor or cap i ta l ), when undertaken to finance operations executed abroad or transactions with foreign countries; (5) loans con- tracted by banks expressly permitted to borrow abroad (these include all authorized b a n k s ); and (6) foreign currency borrowing abroad by nonbank firms, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans does not exceed F 10 million for any one borrower, provided that the interest rate is a "normal" market rate, that the bor- rowing is not for the purpose of direct investment, that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered, and that each drawing against the loan is separated by at least one year from the corresponding repayment. All borrowings in Eurofrancs are subject to prior authorization. The application of the controls over direct investment and borrowing is delegated to the Bank of France insofar as they relate to French firms that are mainly engaged in real estate business Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the Bank of France, within the frame- work of directives issued by the Treasury. Since the imposition of exchange control in 1968, authorized banks have been v ir tua l ly free to lend foreign currency to nonresidents, subject to cer ta in reservations in respect of the granting of guarantees and vary ing limitations on their external position, and to resident importers and exporters. Lending to nonresidents in francs, how- ever, is prohibited, with m inor exceptions. Authorized banks' foreign currency assets and their overall liabilities in francs and fore ign currency to nonresidents are free f rom limitation. Nonresidents may freely purchase French short-term securities, including treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private drafts. 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire regularly, and dis- pose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there prior to Novem- ber 25, 1968. There is a f ree gold market for bars and coin in Paris, to which residents have free and anony- mous access and in which normally no official interven- tion takes place. Imports and exports of "monetary" gold (defined as gold having neither a fineness nor a weight that is recognized in the gold market) into or from the territory of continental France require prior autho- rization by the Bank of France. Imports or exports to or from the Bank of France itself, however, are exempted from that requirement. Imports and exports by private persons of gold objects (other than medals and bars, but including both personal and other jewelry) or numismatic gold coins, provided that their com- bined weight does not exceed 500 grams, are similarly exempt. Movements of industrial gold are subject to a simple declaration as are imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles. Col- lectors' items of gold and gold antiques are subject to specific regulations. A 20-franc gold coin, the napoleon, is traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of bars and coin are not subject to value-added tax. Imports of monetary gold are exempt from customs duty and value-added tax. Domestic transactions in gold and gold coin are subject to capital gains tax. Changes during 1981 May 16. The 5 per cent reserve requirement on nonresidents' deposits at the commercial banks was abolished. May 21. The following exchange control regulations were introduced: (a) the time limit on forward positions for most imports was reduced from two months to one month, and a limit of three months was introduced in the case of imports of raw materials and other essential products; (b) the maximum period during which importers could hold foreign exchange necessary to pay for imports on a spot basis was reduced from eight calendar days to two working days; (c) the maximum period for the surrender of export proceeds was reduced f rom the ma tura t ion of the covering contracts to one month a f ter export deliveries; (d) the l im it on direct fore ign investment without pr ior authorization was reduced from F 5 million to F 1 m i l l ion, and unless specifically exempted three fou r ths of direct foreign investment was required to be financed f rom foreign borrowing; and (e) the devise tit re system was reintro- duced, under which purchases of fore ign securities by ind iv idual residents would be required to be matched by proceeds f rom sales of fore ign securities by residents. (The devise titre is the un it of account in which these ma tch ing operations are denom ina ted, and its va lue can fluctuate on the basis of domestic supp ly and demand for fore ign securities.) September 18. Forward exchange covers for imports were suspended in an e f fo rt to a l lev ia te speculative pressures on the franc. October 5. The b i la teral cen t ral rates and in terven- tion rates between the French f r a nc and the currencies of the other pa r t ic ipan ts in the European Monetary System were adjusted. November 12. The ban on fo rw a rd exchange cover for imports was relaxed as fo l lows: (a) impor ters of green coffee, rice, hides and sk ins, wool, ha irs, cotton, and cotton waste were au tho r ized to engage in covering operations not exceeding th ree mon ths in du r a t ion, pro- vided that forward coverage was arranged in the cur- rency stipulated in the contract and was term ina ted on the date of the settlement; (b) in cases of deferred set- tlement of contract, the forward cover could be extended for a max imum of eight days without prior authorization; (c) should settlement be effected before the expiration of three months, the operation would be required to be canceled for the rema in ing per iod; (d) in cases of can- cellation of the unde r ly ing contract, the exchange cover would be required to be te rm ina ted immediately; and (e) if the cancellation would result in a foreign exchange profit, the bank involved would be required to inform the monetary authorities. 180 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Gabon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks at present take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quo- tations based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange marke t, and include a commission. A com- mission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital trans- fers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Economy and Finance supervises bor- rowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is admin- istered by the Minister of Economy and Finance, who has delegated his approval authority for current pay- ments to the authorized banks and that with respect to the external position of the banks to the BEAC. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Adm in is tra t ion and authorized banks. Import authorizations or licenses, and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency Since Gabon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through corre- spondent banks in France in any of the currencies of 1The CFA f r anc c ircu la t ing in Gabon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, and the Congo. those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville by an authorized bank's foreign correspon- dent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BEAC banknotes, French banknotes, or bankno tes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments In general, imports from member countries of the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are free of forma l i t ies; imports of refined vegetable oil f rom these countries require prior ap- proval. All imports f rom countries outside the UDEAC are subject to either an authorization to import (where the value is more than CFAF 500,000) or a license to import. All imports, of any origin, are sub- ject to au thor iza t ion. For perishables and spare parts, a provisional authorization is given to avoid adminis- trative delays. Imports from countries outside the UDEAC that are similar to, and compete with, domes- tic products are subject to licensing but, with a few exceptions,2 licenses are granted liberally in practice. Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. Imports of refined vegetable oil are suspended except when originating from member countries of the UDEAC. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in Gabon. All import transactions relating to fore ign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Au thor iza- tions duly endorsed by the M in is try of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Economy and Finance (Directorate of Financial Ins t i tu t ions) entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange provided that the ship- ping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when the appropriate documents are submitted. For many types of payment the approval au thor i ty has been delegated to autho- rized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. 2 Cement, sugar, batteries, and refined vegetable oil. 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also per- mitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining a f ter re tu rn to Gabon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation equivalent to CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 500,000 a tr ip. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BEAC banknotes; the amount taken out is not deducted f rom the travel allo- cation. Travelers to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may not export CFA or French banknotes in excess of an amount equiva- lent to CFAF 200,000 (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for tourist travel; for business travel the amount of such banknotes that may be carried out is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day and CFAF 500,000 a trip. Transfers may be effected without limit through the banking or postal systems. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no general regulations concerning exports. Exports of refined petroleum products, cacao, coffee, and crocodile skins require authorization, irrespective of destination. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 150 days af ter the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered w i th in one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in- ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Trea- sury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. 182 Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require the approval of the Direc- torate of Foreign Financial Relations and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. All fore ign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on fore ign countries or non- residents that are held in Gabon by residents or non- residents must be deposited w i th au thor ized banks in Gabon. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inwa rd and ou tward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or o f fe r ing for sale of fore ign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the transac t ions them- selves, not to paymen ts or receipts. With the exception of controls over the sale or in troduc t ion of foreign securities in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries. Direct investments abroad 8 must be declared to the M in is t ry of Economy and Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of und is tr ibu ted profits; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also must be declared to the Min- istry unless the operation involves the re l inqu ish ing of a par t ic ipa t ion that had previously been approved as cons t i tu t ing a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon 4 must be declared to the Min- istry unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of undistributed profits; w i th in two mon ths f rom receipt of the declaration, the M in is try may request the postponement of the project. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the M in i s t ry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Gabon. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Gabonese investments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the M in is try within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of for- eign securities in Gabon requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are ope ra t ions in con- nection with ( 1) loans backed by a guaran tee from the Gabonese Government and (2) shares s im i lar to 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon anrf those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. 4 Including those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of fore ign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution securities whose issue, advertising, or offer ing for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or jur id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 mil- lion for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or jur id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Direc- torate of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days GABON of the operation, except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on March 23, 1967 and Ju ly 9, 1971, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether domes- tic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. A m in imum of 10 per cent state par t ic ipa t ion is required for any enterprise located in Gabon. The Code provides for four categories of preferen t ial treatment. In addition to fiscal privileges, eligible companies may receive protection against foreign competition and may be given priority in the allocation of imports, of public credit, and of government contracts. A Presidential Decree of April 11, 1975 provides that foreign com- panies investing in Gabon must o f fer shares for pur- chase by Gabonese nationals. Non-Gabonese firms or individuals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and ( 2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated ar t ic les). The export of gold is the monopoly of the Societe Gabo- naise de Recherches et d'Exploitation Minieres (SoGA- R EM ). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1981 May 15. Imports of refined vegetable oil were sus- pended except for those originating f rom member countries of the UDEAC; prior approval, however, continued to be required in the latter category. 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian Dalasi, which is pegged to the pound sterling, the intervention currency at D 4 = £ stg. 1. The Central Bank of The Gambia deals in pounds sterling at the fixed rate of D 4 = <£ stg. 1, subject to a commission of 0.0625 per cent buying and 0.5 per cent selling. The com- mercial banks deal with customers for spot transactions in sterling at rates within 1 per cent of the Central Bank's fixed rate and in other currencies at rates deter- mined by the prevailing market rate in London for the currency concerned against the pound sterling. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. There is a multiple currency practice associated with a requirement that the domestic cur- rency counterpart of all external payments arrears be placed in a Blocked Account at the Central Bank of The Gambia. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Ministry of Finance and Trade. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Central Bank. The commercial banks, which have been appointed as authorized dealers, may authorize sales of foreign cur- rencies for imports covered by specific licenses and, up to specified amounts, for travel expenses and sundry payments abroad. All other sales of foreign currencies are subject to authorization by the Central Bank. The Ministry of Finance and Trade is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries may be made and received in dalasis or pounds sterling from nonresident sources or in any other currency. Settlements with the Central Bank of West Afr ican States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauri- tan ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are norma l ly made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts held by authorized dealers in The Gambia on behalf of residents of countries other than Zimbabwe may be designated External Accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments f rom resi- dents of other countries, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds of sales of other currencies. They may be debited for any pay- ments to residents of other countries, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of other currencies. In addition, there is legal provision for authorized dealers to maintain Blocked Accounts under the direction of the Central Bank. 184 Imports and Import Payments Importation of certain specified goods is prohibited from all sources, predominantly for social or health reasons or on grounds of public policy. The import f rom any country of rice and wheat flour is subject to specific licensing in order to ensure the adequacy of such imports and their f a ir domestic pr ic ing. The Gam- bia Produce Marke t ing Board is responsible for rice imports. Except for imports f rom Eastern European countries, which are subject to specific licensing, all other imports are freely permitted under an open general license. Settlement for imports f rom Eastern European coun- tries may be approved by an authorized dealer on pro- duction of evidence of importation for any commodity that is covered by a valid specific import license. For imports that do not require specific licensing, payment authorization is given by the Central Bank on produc- tion of evidence of importation or shipment. Advance paymen ts for imports, whether or not these are covered by specific licenses, are approved by the Central Bank in all cases where the payment is considered genuine and in accordance w i th normal commercial practice. Payments for imports may be made in dalasis or sterling to an External Account or in any other currency. All goods are subject to an import tax of 2 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue unless otherwise specified. Imports made by the Government, diplomatic missions, and charitable organizations are exempt. There have been some delays in import payments. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles in foreign currencies require permission from the Central Bank, with the exception that authorized dealers have been delegated powers to authorize travel expenses and sundry payments. Per- mission is given in all genuine cases. Irrespective of the purpose of the journey, authorized dealers may grant a basic exchange allowance of up to D 750 a per- son a trip but not exceeding D 1,500 in any one calendar year for travel abroad. For business, professional, or official purposes, authorized dealers may provide resi- dents with exchange facilities of up to D 1,750 for any one journey at a rate not exceeding D 125 a day, sub- ject to a maximum of D 3,500 in any one calendar year. Any excess over these allowances requires permission f rom the Central Bank, but all such applications are approved provided that no capital outflow is involved. Of the above amounts, up to D 250 may be taken out in foreign currency notes and coin. Irrespective of destination, a traveler leaving The Gambia may take out D 75 in Gamb ian or pound sterling currency notes. Visitors to The Gambia may also take out with them on departure any other currency notes declared by them when entering the country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Because of domestic requ iremen ts, the export of char- coal and firewood is sub ject to specific licensing. The export of all other goods can generally be made without ind iv idual licensing, if settlement is made in accordance with procedures laid down by the Central Bank. The Gambia Produce Marketing Board is the sole exporter of g roundnut products, oil palm kernels, cotton, and all derivatives of cotton. Payment for exports must be received through an authorized dealer w i th in six mon ths from the date of export in dalasis, or in pounds sterling from an Ex te rnal Account, or in any other currency. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisible in fore ign currencies must be offered for sale to authorized dealers. There is no restriction on the import of Gambian or other currency notes. Capital Inward t ran s fe rs of capital are not controlled, but outward transfers are sub ject to control. At the time of mak ing invesments in The Gambia, nonresident inves- tors may apply for a clearance from the Central Bank to fac i l i ta te subsequent repatriation of capital; the remit- tance of profits is allowed free ly af ter provision has been made for local taxes and other legally incurred liabili- THE GAMBIA ties in The Gambia. All other applications to t rans fer capital abroad are dealt with by the Central Bank. Loans and advances by the commercial banks to non- res iden ts are subject to the authorization of the Central Bank. Such authorization is normally given free ly for the purpose of providing working capital to companies registered outside The Gambia for their operations in The Gambia. Gold The import of gold coin m in ted in the United King- dom requires licensing by the Ministry of Finance and Trade; otherwise, gold coin and bullion may be imported freely. All internal dealings in gold and the export of gold require the permission of the Central Bank. Neither the Central Bank nor the commercial banks deal in gold. Changes during 1981 July 1. The import tax was increased f rom 1.5 per cent to 2 per cent, c.i.f. November 5. The domestic currency coun terpart of all external payments arrears was required to be placed in a Blocked Account at the Central Bank of The Gambia. Combining the wa i t ing period with the interest rate of 2 per cent annua l ly gave rise to a multiple currency practice. 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Federal Republic of Germany is the Deutsche Mark. Ge rmany1 participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS ), whereby each country maintains the value of its currency in relation to the currencies of the other par t ic ipa t ing countries. Under this agreement, spot exchange rates between the deutsche mark and the currencies of the other participants are ma in ta ined w i th in margins of 2.25 per cent above or below the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in European Cur- rency Units (ECU s ), except for the Italian lira for which the temporary intervention limit is plus or m inus 6 per cent. The agreement implies that the Deutsche Bundesbank (the central b ank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in un l im i ted amounts at specified intervention rates. On Decem- ber 31, 1981 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Deutsche Mark Upper l im it Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 6.047 31.155 39,920 3.6010 1.9670 92.5250 5.7810 29.7850 38.160 3.4430 1.7450 88.455 The participants in the EMS are not ma in ta in ing the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert with other par- ticipants to smooth out erratic fluctuations in exchange rates. In principle, interventions are made in participat- ing currencies but they may also take place in third currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Official middle, buying, and selling rates are quoted for 17 foreign currencies on the foreign exchange mar- ket of F rank fu rt am Main.2 On December 31, 1981 the official middle rate for the U.S. dollar was DM 2.25480 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. 1The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Ge rmany, inc lud ing Berlin (W e s t ). 2 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian and Luxembourg francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 186 Germany fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The adm in is t ra t ion of control in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal M in is t ry of Economics, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal M in i s t ry of Transportation, the Federal Office for Trade and Indus t ry, the Federal M in is try for Food, Agr icu l ture, and Forestry, the Federal Office for Food and Forestry, the Federal Office for Ag r icu l tu ral Ma rke t ing Organ iza t ion, and the M in is tr ies of Economics of the Laender. The Deutsche Bundesbank is in charge of the imple- mentation of capital controls, but no such controls are curren t ly in place. All banks in Germany are per- m i t ted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. A vo lun ta ry coordinating body w i th in the bank ing system, the Central Capital Market Committee, formulates recommendations with regard to the t im ing of domestic and fore ign bond issues, except issues by those institu- tions that have recourse to the capital market on a permanent basis. Imports and Import Payments The Import List comprises a total of 8,809 statistical positions. Their t rea tment is as fo l lows: some 8,040 items may be imported free of license f rom any coun- try. Commodities correspond ing to some 8,507 positions may be imported free of license f rom countries in Coun- try List A /B .3 Certain petroleum products (7 positions) requ ire a license irrespective of origin. Imports of coal from countries that are not members of the European Coal and Steel Commun i ty are permitted w i th in the f ramewo rk of an annual global quota. The Common Ag r icu l tu ral Policy of the EC covers 1,743 statistical items; most of these are subject to variable import levies which in most cases have replaced previous barriers to imports, but for some items an import license is still required by EC regulations. De facto liberalization is applicable to cer ta in com- modities (302 statistical items) when originating in and purchased from A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., or Viet Nam. Under these arrangements, import licenses are issued auto- matically upon application, provided that domestic production and prices are not affected adversely (AM LA4 procedure). 3 Countries in List A/B are those of the fo rmer OEEC area and F in land and all o ther coun tr ies except those in List C. Countries in List C are Albania, member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CM EA ), the People's Republic of Ch ina, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 4 Ausschreibungen mit lau fender Antragstellung. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports of cer ta in commod i t ies among those not subject to licensing require, for surve i l lance purposes only, an import dec lara t ion stamped by the Federal Office for Trade and Indus t ry. These import declara- tions are pa r t ly prescribed by the EC. For imports still subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction (w i th certain excep- tions, such as food items imported by tour is ts, samples, gifts, and small pa rce ls ), an ind iv idu al import license is required. App l ica t ions are no rma l ly invited by tender (Ausschreibung) published in the Federal Official Gazette. Import licenses may be allocated to impo r te rs either on a first-come, first-served basis, or on the basis of the to tal va lue of app l ica t ions in re la t ion to the quotas established for specified commodities. Some tenders are pe rmanen t ly open (AMLA p rocedu re ). Payments for imports are free, even if the unde r ly ing import t ransac t ion is s t i ll restricted. Commodity fu tu res may be dealt in f ree ly. Most t r an s it t rade t ransac t ions may also be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles A ll paymen ts for inv is ib les may be made f ree ly w i th- out ind iv idual license. G e rm an and fore ign notes and coin and other means of p aym ent may be expor ted f ree ly. The f o l l ow i ng t r a n s a c t i o n s — b ut not the related pay- men ts —be tween res iden ts and n o n r e s id en ts a re sub ject to re s t r ic t ion: the ch a r t e r ing of fo r e ign ships from residents of specified coun tr ies and the conc lus ion of related sea f re ight con t rac t s; the use of fo re ign boats in certain in land wa te rway t ra f f ic; t ran sac t ions w i th speci- f ied coun tr ies (wh ich do not g rant reciprocal t r e a tm en t) for hu ll and m a r ine l i a b i l i ty in su r an ce and av ia t ion insurance, except passenger accident in su r an c e; and the production of mo t ion p ic tu res in assoc ia t ion w i th non res iden ts .5 Exports and Export Proceeds W i th few excep t ions, export t r a n s a c t i o ns may be carried out free ly. For s t a t i s t i c al purposes, an export no t if ica t ion is required for all goods. Ce r ta in exports (mos t ly s t ra teg ic goods) are subject to i n d i v i d u al licensing. The customs au tho r i t ies exercise con trol over export dec la ra t ions. Foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports do not have to be declared or su r r end e r ed, and they may be used for all paymen t s. Proceeds from Invisibles W i th few exceptions, services p e r fo rm ed for non- residents do not requ i re licenses. Howeve r, licenses are required for t ran sac t ions related to specific sea services and for technical assistance th rough the de l ivery to residents of List C coun t r ies (see foo tno te 3) of con- s t ruc t ional draw ings, m a t e r i a l s, and i n s t r u c t i o ns for m a n u f a c t u r e, if such assistance is for the p rodu c t ion of goods whose export requ ires a license. 5 Res tr ic t ions are applied only to the acqu is i t ion f r om non res iden ts of rights to films that are to be shown in the original German-speaking version or in a G e rm an - syn ch ron i z ed ve rs ion, the acqu i s i t ion of r igh ts to films of any k ind o r i g i n a t i ng in CMEA coun t r ie s, and the accept- ance of film services f r om CMEA coun tr ies. FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY There are no restrictions on the receipt of p a ym e n ts for services rendered to nonres iden ts. However, receipts exceeding DM 1,000 on account of serv ices have to be reported. Ge rman and fore ign notes and co in and o ther means of payment may be impo r ted f ree ly. Capital Residents and nonres iden ts may, in p r inc ip le, export cap i tal free ly w i thout a license. Foreign and in te rna- t ional bond issues on the German c ap i t al m a r k et do not require official approval, a l though a v o l u n t a ry mon i to r- ing system of issuing b anks is opera ted by the C en t r al Capital Market Comm i t tee. The p lacement abroad of bonds denom ina ted in deutsche ma rk th rough the in te r- mediation of subsidiaries of G e rm an banks in Luxem- bourg is banned, on the basis of a g en t l em en 's agree- ment between the banks and the B u n d e s b a n k. The issue of ex ternal bonds denom ina ted in deu tsche m a rk mu st be made through a b a n k i ng con so r t ium w i th at least one Ge rman bank w i th residence in Ge rmany se rv ing as a lead manager. In p r inc ip le, domes t ic and fo r e ign securities of all types may be impo r t ed or expo r ted freely. Fo l low ing the changes in r egu l a t ions b e g i n n i ng Ma rch 12, 1981, no res t r ic t ions are app l ied on the sale of Ge rman money ma rket papers and fixed interest securities by residents to nonresidents. Nonresidents' d i rect inves tmen ts in Ge rmany, pu rcha ses of real estate in Ge rmany for i n v e s tm e nt or pe rsonal use, and purchases of German or fo re ign e q u i t i es do not r equ i re approval. Interest payable to non res ident holders of fixed-interest securities of Ge rman issuers is sub ject to a w i thho ld ing tax of 25 per cent ("coupon t ax " ). There are no l im i ta t ions on the disposal of legac ies located in Ge rmany and inh e r i t ed by n o n r e s i d e n ts or on legacies located abroad and inh e r i t ed by r e s i d e n t s. Res iden ts are not required to r ep a t r i a te or s u r r e n d er the ir fo re ign exchange ea rn ings or ho ld ing s. Banks are subject to m i n im um reserve r e q u i r em e n ts on the level of the ir fo re ign l i a b i l i t i es w i th m a t u r i t i es of less th an f o ur years; the rates of deposit at the end of 1981 were, in p r inc ip le, the same as those app l icab le to domestic liabilities, i.e., 11.25 per cen t, 7.95 per cen t, and 5.0 per cent on demand, t ime, and s a v i n gs depos i ts, respectively. The principal exemp t ion is for banks' fo re ign currency bo r row ings that a re imm e d i a t e ly re in- vested abroad. Banks are free to pay in te rest on dome s t ic or fo re ign currency balances he ld by non r e s id en t s. Gold Residents may free ly hold gold in any f o rm at home or abroad and may nego t ia te gold in any fo rm w i th residents or nonresidents, at home or abroad. There is a f ree gold ma rket in F r a n k f u r t. Impo r ts and exports of gold in any fo rm by res iden ts and non re s iden ts are unrestricted and f ree of license; a customs d e c l a r a t ion, however, is required. Imports of gold bullion and coin, unworked gold, and 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY gold alloys are free of customs duty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 13 per cent. In the case of imports of gold coin where the assessment basis exceeds 250 per cent of the fine gold value, the value-added tax is levied at a rate of 6.5 per cent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank are exempt from value-added tax and from customs duty. Domestic transactions in gold are subject to value-added tax at the same rate as imports, but under certain con- ditions no value-added tax is levied on transactions in gold bullion effected on gold exchanges between bro- kers who are admitted to these exchanges. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold are sub- ject to the general foreign trade regulations and in all cases are liberalized. Changes during 1981 February 1. The minimum reserve requirements for domestic and foreign liabilities of banks were lowered by 7 per cent across the board. March 12. The Bundesbank announced tha t, with immediate affect, it would grant all applications for the sale by residents to nonresidents of certain money market papers, bills, and domestic fixed-interest securi- ties with a ma tur i ty of up to two years; this implied a de facto abolition of the remaining restrictions on capital transactions. August 27. By an amendment to the foreign trade and payments order, the authorization requirement for the sale by residents to nonresidents of money market papers and fixed interest securities was terminated, implying a de jure abolition of restrictions on capital transactions. October 5. The deutsche mark and the Netherlands guilder were revalued by 5.5 per cent, while the French franc and the Italian lira were devalued by 3 per cent, against the currencies of the other participants in the EMS. 188 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian Cedi. In June 1978, Ghana introduced a flexible exchange sys- tem under which the exchange rate for the cedi in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, was to be adjusted to reflect the under ly ing economic, financial, and balance of payments s i tua t ion. Such adjustments were discontinued, however, in August 1978 and had not been resumed by December 31, 1981. On Decem- ber 31, 1981 the official buying and selling rate for the U.S. dollar was 0 2.75 per US$1. Rates are also quoted for certain other currencies,1 with daily quota- tions based on buying and selling rates for the U.S. dol- lar in markets abroad. The authorized banks may exchange Ghana ian currency for any foreign currency. Different exchange rates for the cedi arise from the application of an export bonus scheme (20 per cent for all exports except cocoa), a 20 per cent tax on the value of letters of credit issued, a 50 per cent surcharge on exchange allocations for student travel, and an 80 per cent surcharge on exchange allocations for other foreign travel. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Minis- try of Trade is empowered to prohibit, regulate, or license all imports and exports. Applications by the industrial sector and certain state agencies for individ- ual import licenses must be channeled through the appropriate m in is try or government agency for endorse- ment. The Controller of Imports and Exports issues import licenses on the basis of an import program drawn up by a technical committee on imports, super- vised by the Import License and Foreign Exchange Allocation Committee on which the Bank of Ghana and various ministries are represented. All import licenses must be signed by the Director of Imports. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for pay- ments for invisibles and capital. Permitted foreign exchange transactions must be made through autho- rized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and resi- dents of other countries are made in permitted cur- rencies. However, settlements related to transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana or the central or state banks of the countries 1 Aus t ra l ian dollars, Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA f rancs, Danish kroner, French francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dol- lars, Nigerian naira, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. concerned.2 Furthermore, proceeds from exports to countries with which Ghana does not have payments agreements must be received in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is among the cur- rencies quoted by the Bank of Ghana) or in deutsche mark, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. Current pay- ments to or from the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Maur i tan ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident account status is granted to embassies, legations, consulates, and offices of high commissioners in Ghana and to the career and established members of their s ta f fs. This fac i l i ty is also available to inter- national institutions and foreign registered companies operating in Ghana, as well as to nonresident Ghana- ians. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments, with transfers f rom other Foreign Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of any convertible currency, other than restricted currencies. They may be debited for inward payments, for t rans fe rs to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of external currencies. Nonresident accounts ma in ta ined under the provi- sions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Official Accounts" or "Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral payments agree- ment countries, and w i th proceeds from sales of exter- nal currencies, other than restricted currencies. They may be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for trans- fers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents, e.g., certain types of capital proceeds, may be deposited in Blocked Accounts. These accounts may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Namibia (South West Africa) and South Africa are not permitted. Imports of some goods, including virtually all textiles and textile prod- ucts, chocolate, and chilled or frozen fish, are pro- 2 Ghana maintains a bilateral payments agreement with Romania. 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA hibited. Imports of certain goods also produced in Ghana, certain luxury commodities, and certain goods deemed ha rm ful to health or public order are severely restricted. Importation of certain goods may be allowed under special license where no transfer of foreign exchange through the Bank of Ghana or a commercial bank is required. There is an open general license which permits any importer to import freely from any country trade samples, personal or household effects, small gifts, single copies of publications, domes- tic pets, headloads of foods tuffs from neighboring countries, fish caught by Ghanaian-owned vessels, and reimports. All other items involving use of official foreign exchange require a specific import license. There is a list of commercial imports eligible for spec- ific licenses which are issued for items that are con- sidered essential w i th in the framework of an annual import program. Certain imports are channeled through a bulk purchasing agent, the Ghana National Procure- ment Agency, or for public sector imports, the Ghana Supply Commission. For cases not requiring the pro- vision of official foreign exchange, there is a special license by which specific goods could be imported in commercial quantities. A 20 per cent tax (the Special Development Tax) is levied on all goods imported under special licenses, with the exception of passenger luggage. Except for aid imports, import licenses do not specify the country from which the commodity has to be imported, but they do specify whether payment is to be made in convertible or inconvertible currency. Licenses for payment in inconvertible currencies may be used for imports from any payments agreement country. Licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. Exchange for payment of approved imports is, in principle, granted freely by the Bank of Ghana. How- ever, arrears exist with respect to both current import payments and the repayments of matured 180-day trade credits established before February 7, 1972. With effect from Janua ry 2, 1980 the Bank of Ghana ceased to issue letters of credit or to perform other commer- cial banking operations related to import transactions. The Bank of Ghana, however, provides the necessary foreign exchange cover to the authorized banks. Most imports are effected with confirmed letters of credit established through Ghanaian banks, and usually on a sight basis. A 20 per cent tax is levied on the value of letters of credit. The cash margin deposit require- ment has been abolished. For imports valued at over US$2,000 f.o.b., banks are forbidden to make pay- ments against a letter of credit or a bank d ra ft unless the import documents include a clean report of find- ings issued by the General Superintendence Company Limited of Geneva, which inspects the goods and verifies the price, quality, and quantity in the country of origin or shipment. 190 Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Conrol Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documen tary evidence must support all applications. Certain payments and transfers are in arrears. Transfers of normal bank charges payable to over- seas bankers for import payments are generally authorized. The payment of buying commission on imports is not permitted. Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the t rans fer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the application is properly documented. With few exceptions, insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghanaian currency with local insurance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees are normally limited to 40 per cent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of US$2,600 a year plus leave pay; this personal remittance quota is intended to cover all personal and fam i ly requirements and commitments outside Ghana, inc lud ing leave expenses, travel, education, g i f ts, insurance premiums, subscrip- tions, and donations. Expatriate employees in specified industries (GHAIP and GHASEL) are not affected by the limit and are allowed to transfer their savings at the end of each tour of duty. Employees in the mining, timber, fishing, and bank ing industries are allowed to transfer either 40 per cent of their net annual earnings plus leave pay or a max imum of 70 per cent of net annual earnings plus the balance on savings at the end of the tour of duty. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian self-employed persons are also lim- ited to 40 per cent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of US$2,600. With the exception of companies financed with locally raised capital, non- resident companies are, in principle, permitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits af ter tax; at present, however, transfers of profits are being autho- rized only on a limited basis. The t rans fer of profits by companies that have been financed with locally raised capital is not permitted. In addition, if sup- ported by documen tary evidence, outward remittance of up to 70 per cent of disposable income may be authorized in respect of payment of insurance pre- miums, educational expenses, interest and amortization on mortgages, and contributions to pension funds. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel, which had been reintroduced on August 21, 1978, was suspended again on August 7, 1979; foreign exchange for business travel is granted once a year in an amount of US$85 a day for a max imum of two weeks. Addi- tional allocations are permitted for business travel in connection w i th export promotion. With the exception of those for students, all travel allocations are subject to a tax of 80 per cent; the tax on allocations for students is 50 per cent. Residents of any nationality (except children under two years of age, diplomats, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and UN personnel) who are leaving Ghana by air or sea for any purpose, whether temporarily or not, must pay a travel tax of 80 per cent of the price of the round-trip ticket. Resident travelers may take with them foreign cur- rency notes equivalent to 0 160, provided that not more than the equivalent of <Z 40 is taken in any one currency. Ghana ian banknotes up to 040 may be taken out by any traveler. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign currency brought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Nam ib ia (South West A f r i c a) and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of iron and steel scrap also are prohibited. Cocoa and certain other agricul- tural products are exported through a state-owned export agency, the Cocoa Marke t ing Company, and diamonds are exported through the Diamond Market- ing Corporation. Normally, specific export licenses are required. With the exceptions noted below, exporters are required to collect and repatriate the fu ll proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered to a commercial bank in Ghana upon receipt. Exporters surrendering export proceeds in external A f r ican cur- rencies or convertible currencies are granted an export bonus. This bonus is 20 per cent of the proceeds for all exports except cocoa. Mining, timber, and non- traditional export industries are allowed to retain up to 20 per cent of their export proceeds in accounts abroad for financing essential imports. (Such imports are, however, subject to the import license.) Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to autho- rized dealers. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely. The import of Ghana ian currency notes in excess of 040 is prohibited. Capital Foreign investment in Ghana requires prior appro- val by the Capital Investment Centre if it is to benefit from the facilities available under the Investments Code, 1981. Investments approved under the Code are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquidation, capital proceeds; tax holidays, in i t ial capital allowances, etc., are also available for such investments. The Code stipulates that the assets of fore ign investors may not be expropriated and tha t, when approved enterprises are nationalized, f a ir compensation is to be determined. Where there is a dispute over the amount of com- pensation, the dispute shall be settled in accordance with the established procedure for conciliation, for example, through arbitration by the International Centre for Settlements of Investment Disputes. Cer- GHANA ta in areas of economic activity are not open to for- eigners. The proceeds of the sales of foreign ownership to Ghana ian na t iona ls are held in blocked, noninterest- bearing accounts with the Bank of Ghana; these accounts carry an exchange rate guarantee. Transfers of such funds are being effected gradua l ly. All outgoing capital movements must be approved by the Bank of Ghana; applications for such transfers must be supported by documen ta ry evidence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been settled. Requests for the transfer of funds representing personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are con- sidered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate documentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of the real assets of foreign na t iona ls leaving Ghana may be approved for transfer in one lump sum or may be spread over a period of time, depending on the amoun t. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident companies controlled by nonres iden ts require the individual approval of the Bank of Ghana. Residents who are private persons are not normally granted foreign exchange for the acquisition of securities or personal real estate abroad. Transac t ions in securities are con- trolled to ensure that capital is not t rans fe r red abroad. In reSpect of portfolio investments, residents must obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. Private sector and commercial bank borrowing require the approval of the Bank of Ghana, as do private import credits in excess of 0 240,000 for machinery and equipment; foreign borrowing by Ghana ian nationals is subject to certain guidelines by the Government. Lending to nonresidents is prohibited, except for export credits; these require exchange control approval, and normally are limited to 60 days. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate in Ghana gold obtained domestically by washing or m in ing accord- ing to indigenous methods, gold coins that are collec- tors' pieces, and gold jewelry. Other domestic transac- tions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the M in is try of Trade in collaboration w i th the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by perm it under the Gold Mining Products Protection Ordinance. With these exceptions, Ghanaian residents may not buy or borrow any gold f rom, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not normally licensed. The import duty on bullion and partly worked gold is 10 per cent and that on other gold is 50 per cent. The gold mines export their out- 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA put in semi-refined form. Exports by any one person or firm in excess of 100,000 ounces are subject to export tax at a rate of (2 3 a troy ounce. Changes during 1981 January 2. Authorization was granted for nonresi- dent nationals to open foreign accounts (convertible cedi accounts) with domestic banks. June 30. The Special Development tax was raised from 10 per cent to 20 per cent, as was the export bonus. August 11. Under the new Foreign Investment Code, the requirement of majority ownership by Ghanaians in business involving foreign participation was discontinued. August 12. The tax on foreign exchange sales was lowered to 50 per cent for studies abroad and raised from a general level of 75 per cent to 80 per cent in other cases. September 1. The cedi voucher scheme was abol- ished, under which purchases of cer ta in amounts of cedis were required as a condition for granting visas and entry permits. September 15. The cash margin deposit requirement against import letters of credit was abolished. 192 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Greece is the Greek Drachma. Although a member of the EC, Greece does not partici- pate in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). The authori- ties of Greece operate a managed float for the drachma. On December 31, 1981 buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, in the interbank market were Dr 57.457 and Dr 57.803, respectively, per US$1. Quotations for certain other currencies1 are determined daily in the interbank market at the daily fixing2 session. A compulsory commission is charged on all foreign exchange transactions. The commission rate declines from 0.2 per cent to 0.0125 per cent as the size of the transaction increases from Dr 250,000 to Dr 30 million; no charges are levied on transactions of up to US$150, and the max imum charge of Dr 4,500 is applied only to purchases of foreign exchange. The Bank of Greece offers fo rwa rd cover in U.S. dollars only, at rates determined by the Bank. Additional effective exchange rates result from the application of advance import deposit requirements. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, the Currency Committee, the Credit Subcommittee, the Foreign Exchange Control Subcommittee, and the Foreign Exchange Subcommittee for Financial Requirements. Under Law No. 936/79, the Ministry of Commerce is responsible for import and export policy. Exchange control is implemented and foreign exchange approvals for imports are granted by authorized commercial banks. Import and export licenses are also issued by authorized banks. The autho- rized banks may make exchange settlements relating to most trade transactions and may grant residents a standard travel allowance. They may also make exchange payments for a number of specified transactions in invisibles. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are made in any con- vertible currency or through External Sight Deposit Accounts in convertible drachmas. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts in Greece, as follows: 1. Deposits in foreign exchange under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53. Nonresidents may establish time 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 The daily fixing rates are the official exchange rates of the drachma vis-a-vis the respective foreign currencies. deposit accounts in foreign currency for a m in imum period of six months and with a m in imum deposit in convertible currencies equivalent to US$10,000; bal- ances on these accounts earn interest not exceeding 8 per cent a year. Interest rates vary according to the term of the account, but limits are fixed, as follows: for 6 months to 12 months, 7 per cent a year; for 12 months to 24 months, 7.5 per cent a year; and for 24 months and over, 8 per cent a year. Principal and interest are free ly transferable at ma tu r i ty in the cur- rency of the deposit. 2. External Sight Deposit Accounts in convertible drachmas and in foreign currencies. Nonresidents are permitted to open External Sight Deposit Accounts in convertible drachmas or foreign currencies. Deposits in convertible drachmas are assigned by a bank to the Bank of Greece against drachmas at the official rate of exchange. Deposits in convertible foreign currency are held by the banks. Any withdrawal f rom drachma accounts for use in Greece and any conversion of with- drawals f rom foreign currency accounts into drachmas entail the loss of the reconversion right for the sums withdrawn. At the end of 1981, the max imum rate of interest on such accounts with the banks was 1.5 per cent a year. These accounts may be credited w i th (a) convertible foreign exchange or the proceeds f rom sales of convertible currencies; (b) authorized payments by residents of Greece for imports or services payable in convertible currencies; (c) t rans fe rs f rom other External Sight Deposit Accounts; and (d) accrued interest on these deposits. They may be debited for (a) paymen ts to residents for current transactions, exports, and services; (b) the purchase and transfer abroad of any convertible currency; and (c) transfers to other External Sight Deposit Accounts. 3. Time Deposit Accounts in Convertible Foreign Exchange. Nonresidents may make time deposits in convertible foreign exchange with banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The m in imum period of such deposits is one month for deposits in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling, and three mon ths for other currencies; the interest rate is determined freely by the banks according to rates obtaining abroad, provided that the banks hold the foreign currency and pay interest out of earnings derived f rom investing these deposits abroad. 4. Deposits in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling. Such deposits may be made as follows: (a) Greek citizens (including seamen) working abroad, certain Greek societies and associations operating abroad, and Greek nationals residing abroad may make, with funds originating abroad, deposits in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling with authorized banks in Greece. The period, interest rates, and other 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE terms of the deposits are determined by the banks. At the end of 1981 the max imum annual interest rates payable on these accounts were (i) 1.5 per cent for sight deposits; (ii) 8 per cent for savings deposit accounts in U.S. dollars and Canadian dollars and 12 per cent for such accounts in pounds sterling; and (iii) for time deposits, depending on the time and amount, 13.5-14.75 per cent for accounts in U.S. dollars, 15.875-16.625 per cent for accounts in Canadian dollars, and 15.375-15.625 per cent for accounts in pounds sterling. Should the depositor decide at the time of deposit to withdraw accrued interest in drachmas, the interest rate is increased by 1.5 percentage points annually. The banks are obliged to redeposit with the Bank of Greece at least 70 per cent of the increase in such deposits after Ju ly 1, 1980, at interest rates set by the Bank of Greece in accordance with developments in the Eurodollar market. The remaining 30 per cent can be deposited abroad, with other domestic banks, the Bank of Greece, or placed in other assets. (b) The banks are not obliged to redeposit with the Bank of Greece for certain categories of deposits as follows: (i) deposits of shipping (including the ship- owners), insurance, and construction companies and of Olympic Airways and (ii) deposits above the equivalent of US$200,000 for each depositor w i th in the categories mentioned in 4(a) above. 5. Deposits in other convertible currencies (exclud- ing U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling). Greek citizens (including seamen) working abroad and certain Greek societies and associations operating abroad may open, with funds originating abroad, con- vertible foreign currency accounts in deutsche mark and other currencies (excluding U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling) with authorized banks in Greece. The period and the other terms of the deposits are freely determined by the banks. The Bank of Greece establishes maximum interest rates for each type and currency of deposit based on developments in the internal money markets of the countries in whose cur- rencies the deposits are denominated. Should the depositor decide at the time of deposit to withdraw accrued interest in drachmas, the interest rate is increased by 1.5 percentage points annually. At the end of 1981 the maximum annual interest rates pay- able on these accounts were (a) for accounts in Belgian francs and French francs: 3 per cent for sight deposits, 13 per cent for savings deposits, and 18 per cent and 19 per cent, respectively, for time deposits of 1-12 months; (b) for accounts in Swiss francs: 2 per cent for sight deposits, 6.5 per cent for savings deposits, and 11.5 per cent for time deposits of 1-12 months; (c) for accounts in Australian dollars: 3 per cent for sight deposits, 6 per cent for savings deposits, and 14 per cent for time deposits of 1-12 months; (d) for accounts in Japanese yen: 3 per cent for sight deposits, 5.5 per cent for savings deposits, and 8.5 per cent for time deposits of 1-12 months; (e) for accounts in Nether- 194 lands guilders: 3 per cent for sight deposits, 6.5 per cent for savings deposits, and 12.5 per cent for time deposits of 1-12 months; (f) for accounts in Swedish kroner: 4 per cent for sight deposits, 11 per cent for savings deposits, and 14 per cent for time deposits of 1-12 months; and (g) for accounts in deutsche mark and other convertible currencies: 3 per cent for sight deposits, 7 per cent for savings deposits, and 13 per cent and 12 per cent, respectively, for time deposits of 1-12 months. Withdrawals in drachmas entail the loss of the reconversion right for the sums withdrawn. The banks are obliged to surrender the entire foreign exchange proceeds to the Bank of Greece at fixed parities in exchange for drachmas. Balances on these accounts, inc lud ing accrued interest are free ly convert- ible into foreign exchange against reconversion of drachmas at the same fixed parities that were applied at the time of original conversion. Similar facilities for foreign currency accounts exist under a Housing Loan Deposit Scheme. 6. Blocked Accounts. All drachma assets of non- residents other than those in External Sight Deposit Accounts must be declared, and are held in Blocked Accounts. Domestic banknotes in excess of Dr 1,500 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a Blocked Account, as must certain income accruing in Greece to nonresidents. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, balances on Blocked Accounts held by residents of all countries excluding Turkey and Israel may be used for such purposes as (a) travel expenses for each visit to Greece and personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 200,000 a month of the visitor's stay in Greece and up to Dr 100,000 for other members of his fam i ly; for residents of Turkey or Israel, the corresponding limit is Dr 25,000 annually; (b) expenses for buying tickets for a max imum of two trips to Greece by the depositor and other members of his family; (c) expenses for paying taxes and lawyers' fees; and (d) investing in securities officially listed on the stock exchange in Greece and purchasing real estate in Greece. Payments abroad from funds in Blocked Accounts held by residents of countries that have special agreements with Greece3 may be released for remit- tance provided that (a) where the money deposited is derived exclusively from rents, amounts of up to US$1,000 (or its equivalent) may be transferred abroad semiannually and (b) where the money deposited is derived exclusively from pensions and the holder has been resident abroad since before December 31, 1975, up to US$300 a month, plus bonuses for New Year, Easter, and vacation, up to a total of US$4,200 annually may be remitted abroad. Funds derived f rom dividends of postwar public loans and loans of public organizations are freely transferable abroad, and other balances on 3 Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Nether- lands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United King- dom, and United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Blocked Accounts may be transferred abroad if the prior approval of the Bank of Greece is obtained. All trans- fers between Blocked Accounts require prior approval. The amoun ts that may be w i thdrawn from Blocked Accounts differ in cases where the holders do not live in the countries listed in foo tno te 3. Balances on Blocked Accounts held by private ind iv idua ls in the EC member countries are scheduled to be released in six equal annual ins ta l lmen ts du r ing the period Janu- ary 1, 1981 to January 1, 1986. Blocked balances may be deposited either with the Bank of Greece, where they bear no interest, or with a commercial bank, the Consignations and Loans Fund, and the Postal Savings Bank, where they earn interest of 11.5 per cent a year. Resident Accounts Greek citizens have the option to open accounts in foreign exchange of the types described in paragraphs 4 and 5 above w i th foreign exchange earned as salaries from work abroad or as paymen ts received for services performed outside Greece. Imports and Import Payments Imports require approval (except those of goods on Lists F and P w i th an invoice value c.i.f. of the equiva- lent of US$1,100 or less, for which payment must be made through an authorized bank), which is granted by a commercial bank. The granting of an import approval implies that the necessary foreign exchange will be made available. Import approvals must be obtained prior to shipment and require the presentation of a certified pro forma invoice. Import licenses are required only for imports of com- modities in Lists A and B (including textiles, television receivers, and certain foods tuffs, passenger cars, buses, and certain types of machinery and spare parts). For a few items on Lists A and B licenses are being issued restrictively, but for the remainder they are issued auto- matically. Special regulations govern imports of cer- tain items, such as goods under monopoly control, medi- cines, narcotics, su lfur, and motion-picture films. Import licenses are not required for a few items in Lists A and B if they are imported from EC countries. Private imports are subject to (1) restrictions on the method of payment; (2) controls over the time period required to make final settlement and the time of ship- ment; and (3) various advance deposit requirements. For the purpose of these regulations, all private imports are classified in six lists (F, F-50/1-2, F-100/1-2, and P). Payments for imports may be made by letter of credit, by cash against shipping documents, or by acceptance of time d ra f ts. Payment by time draft is permitted only for goods in List P; there is no restriction on maturity. For imports not included in List P, the Committee for Regulating Matters Concerning Imports at the Bank of Greece may authorize longer payment periods and may GREECE also approve deferred paymen ts. For imports inc luded in List F, the commercial banks may occasionally au thor ize payment by acceptance of a t ime d r a f t. Pay- men ts for imports may be made on the presentation of entry documents. Various advance deposit requ i remen ts apply to impor ts inc luded in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2. Deposits are accepted by the in te rven ing commercial bank, which redeposits them w i th the Bank of Greece. These deposits do not bear any interest. Certain com- panies, public agencies, and organ iza t ions that have been designated public service in s t i tu t ions are exempt f rom the advance deposit requ iremen ts. Also exempt are du ty - f ree imports and imports of raw materials and sem if in ished products for processing and re-export, as well as imports of final products for re-export. The Committee for Regu la t ing Ma t ters Concerning Imports has au tho r i ty to grant exemption. D i f fe rent deposit requ iremen ts are s t ipu la ted, depend ing upon whe ther paymen ts are made by letters of credit or cash against sh ipp ing documents. For items in List F, advance deposits are not requ ired for imports for wh ich pay- ment is to be made by acceptance of t ime d r a f ts or by cash against shipping documents. Generally, when a letter of credit is opened, the impor ter is required to deposit in drachmas the en t ire amount of the credit w i th the in te rven ing bank; this deposit is retained by the bank to safeguard against de fau l t, and the final settlement is made against this deposit. Irrespective of whether payment is by le t ter of credit or by cash against shipping documents, a cash deposit related to the c.i.f. invoice value is required for imports inc luded in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2, as security for import duties and other taxes. This deposit must be made when the import approval is obtained and may not be re funded before a period of two to f o ur mon ths f rom the date on wh ich it was made. Advance deposits are not required for cap i tal goods and spare par ts exempt f rom impo rt du ty by v i r tue of the laws governing domestic or fore ign investments. The rates of deposit in effect in 1981 are set out below:4 Prepayment Security Total (In per cent of invoice value) 37.5 15.0 52.5 12.0 4.8 16.8 75.0 30.0 105.0 24.0 9.6 33.6 List F-50/1 List F-50/2 List F- 100/1 List F- 1007 2 4 These rates were reduced f u r t h er by one f o u r th of the level on Ap r il 28, 1980 w i th e f fect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1982, the new levels being as fo l lows: P repayment Security Total (In per cent of invoice value) 25.0 10.0 35.0 8.0 3.2 11.2 50.0 20.0 70.0 16.0 6.4 22.4 List F-50/1 List F-50/2 List F-100/1 List F-100/2 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Goods must be shipped within six months and arrive in Greece within three months of shipment. Final settlement of the value of imported goods must take place within 60 days following the date of arrival at the first Greek port; however, for goods in List P, se t t lement must take place w i th in 120 days following the date of arrival. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 2.4-2.6 per cent of the c.i.f. duty-paid and tax-paid value. Spe- cial regulations govern imports by state agencies, public entities, and public utility companies. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval, which is granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain other transactions. Residents traveling abroad for family reasons or tourism are entitled to the equivalent of ECU 400 for travel to EC member countries and US$250 for travel to all other countries for one trip a year; in lieu of this allowance, tourists participating in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration sub- mitted by the travel agency. Requests for larger amounts or for other types of travel are submitted to the Foreign Exchange Subcommittee for Financial Requirements. The Bank of Greece normally provides foreign exchange for travel other than tourism, with- in the following limits for each trip: US$3,000 for exporters; US$2,000 for industrialists and hotel man- agers; US$650 for other businessmen; US$1,000 for scientists attending international meetings; and US$750 for newspaper editors and reporters and travel agents. For medical treatment abroad, the Subcommittee authorizes any amount for transfer direct to a foreign hospital, provided that the relevant accounts are sub- mitted. For undergraduate and postgraduate studies, various allocations are authorized, depending on the country of study, such as US$510 and US$560 a month, respectively, for the United States and Canada; £ stg. 230 and <£ stg. 290 a month, respectively, for the United Kingdom; and DM 830 and DM 980 a mon th, respectively, for the Federal Republic of Ger- many. Authorized banks are also empowered to grant foreign exchange up to US$200 for a limited number of other transactions. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Dr 1,500 in Greek banknotes. Greek nationals, not including those resident abroad, are required to declare all domes- tic and foreign banknotes and other valuables taken with them upon leaving Greece. Nonresident travelers on leaving Greece may freely take with them up to US$500 in foreign banknotes without having declared them upon entry; the export of larger amounts af ter a visit of less than 12 months is also not subject to approval, provided that there was a declaration upon entry. Approval is required for larger sums that have been declared if the visit exceeds 12 months. Payments of interest, profits, and dividends to coun- 196 tr ies other than EC members are restricted, and special regu la t ions and limits apply to outward remittances of interest, dividends, and profits (see section on Capital, below). Exports and Export Proceeds Almost all exports require individual licenses and are f ree of quan t i ta t ive l im i ta t ion. Beginning in 1981, all transactions for exports are undertaken by commercial banks, ra ther than the Chamber of Commerce. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in 180 days f rom the date of export of the goods; in special cases, how- ever, the authorities are empowered to extend this period up to two years for manufactures and up to one year for other commodities. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be surrendered. Exchange proceeds from shipping are exempt from the surrender requirement, but ship- owners must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of fore ign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Dr 1,500 in Greek banknotes. Any surplus is deposited in a Blocked Account with the Bank of Greece; subject to prior approval by the Bank, the surplus may be taken out on departure or spent in Greece on personal require- ments. Greek residents returning to Greece must declare the foreign exchange in their possession if they wish to take it out for the next journey. Nonresident travelers of foreign nationality may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it, and non- residents holding Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange only if they intend, when leav ing Greece, to take out again foreign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. Capital Commercial banks and investment banks may borrow convertible currencies abroad, provided that they lend corresponding amounts as foreign currency loans (or drachma loans w i th a foreign exchange clause) for periods of at least five years to productive enterprises established in Greece. All other investments in Greece by nonresidents are subject to approval (mainly for securing repatriation of imported capital). Such approval is automatic for purchases of real estate for personal use, but repatriation of the proceeds of liquidation is sub ject to the Currency Committee's approval. Under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53, approved foreign investments which aim at the promotion of national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of Greece may be granted preferential treatment; this decree also provides for the opening of foreign currency accounts by nonresidents and the retransfer of the deposits, as well as the transfer of interest thereon. Under Law No. 4171/61 (as amended ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, by Legislative Decree No. 916 of July 14, 1971, and by Law No. 159 of September 9, 1975), further privileges are provided for foreign capital participating in investment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 150 million in value. More- over, Legislative Decree No. 4256/62 provides addi- tional repatriation facilities for foreign investments which promote exports. Repatriation requirements are as follows: (1) Approved investments may not be repatriated before one year from the date the enterprise begins to operate produc- tively and in no case before one year from the date the capital was imported. (2) The repatriation of foreign capital may not exceed 10 per cent a year of the amount of capital imported. The repatriation of dividends on equity capital and of interest on loan capital may not exceed 12 per cent a year and 10 per cent a year, respec- tively. (3) Under the provisions of Law No. 4171/61, profits on approved foreign investments may be trans- ferred abroad in amounts not exceeding 6 per cent a year of the repatriated portion of the capital, provided, however, that the amount of profits transferred shall not exceed 8 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its products abroad. (4) For investments made under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 that are not covered by Law No. 4171/61, the transfer of profits is related to the residual capital remaining in Greece, and the transfer privilege expires as soon as all capital has been repatriated. (5) Arti- cle 33 of Law No. 849/78 provides for a higher per- centage for the repatriation of capital (up to 15 per cent) and of dividends (up to 20 per cent), provided that the total amount does not exceed 30 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the firm from exports during the same year. Also, loans in foreign currency approved under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can be repatriated at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent, provided that the amount of the loan does not exceed twice the value of the share capital. Deviations from the general regulations may be approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and mining products or invested in enter- prises of special importance to the economy. Specified foreign short-term investment may also be granted pref- erential treatment in respect of the repatriation of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval. The purchase abroad of securities or of real estate for personal use is not normally permitted. Gold Residents may freely purchase new gold sovereigns (i.e., those issued since 1974) from the Bank of Greece, through licensed stockbrokers, at prices set by the Bank GREECE of Greece; these coins may be resold only to the Bank of Greece or to licensed stockbrokers. Holders of gold coin acquired in the free market that existed prior to December 22, 1965 may sell these anonymously and without formality to the Bank of Greece or to an authorized bank at the official price. Residents may deal freely, however, in bullion. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange are on Import Lists A and F and require a special license; licenses are normally issued to reputable importers for distribution to recognized users, such as jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coin may be imported freely by com- mercial banks and other residents as well as nonresidents when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved, except that gold bars or coin brought in by travelers and declared upon entry may, with the prior approval of the Bank's Credit Subcommittee, be re- exported by the same person. Changes during 1981 January 1. Greece joined the European Community, but did not participate in the exchange rate and inter- vention mechanism of the EMS. January 1. Balances on Blocked Accounts as of December 31, 1980 held by private ind iv idua ls residing in member countries of the EC would be released in six equal annual installments during the period Jan- uary 1, 1981 to January 1, 1986. January 1. The cash deposit requirements for spec- ified imports were reduced by 25 per cent. January 1. All bilateral payment agreements were terminated. A transitional period of six months was set for the liquidation of all outstanding clearing bal- ances ( four months for the agreement with the People's Republic of China. January 1. The distinction between import proce- dures D and E was abolished. Most imports would be effected under what was formerly termed procedure E, under which approval was granted by a commercial bank. January 1. The annual tourist allowance a person was raised to the equivalent of ECU 400 for travel to EC member countries. March 16. The number of items included in Lists A and B was increased. April 1. The special clearing agreement between Greece and Portugal was terminated. July 1. Foreign exchange allocations for undergradu- ate and postgraduate studies abroad were raised by various amounts, depending on the study station. 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Grenada is the East Caribbean Dol- lar,1 which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Authority also quotes da i ly rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. A 5 per cent exchange tax is levied on all sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks, except for payments for imports of some basic foods and drugs. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries. It is administered by the M in is try of Planning, Finance, and Trade. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the au thor i ty to approve some import payments and certain other outward paymen ts. The exchange control direc- tives do not apply to transactions with South Africa. Trade controls also are administered by the Ministry of P lann ing, Finance, and Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) 2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East Carib- bean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM coun- try concerned. Settlements with residents of the former Sterling Area countries, other than CARICOM countries, may be made in sterling, in any other fo rmer Sterling Area currency, or in East Caribbean dollars to and from External Accounts. Settlements with residents of countries outside the former Sterling Area other than South Africa may be made in any fore ign currency 3 or through an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers without reference to the Minis- try of Planning, Finance, and Trade. These accounts are ma in ta ined in East Caribbean dollars. They may be credited w i th proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other External Accounts, with bank interest (payable on External Accoun ts), and w i th payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Ministry. 1 The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of An t igua and Ba rbuda, Dominica, Mon tserra t, St. Kittts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and Grenadines. 3 The CARICOM coun t r ies are An t igua and Ba rbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, G renada, Guyana, Jama ica, Mon tserra t, St. Kitts-Nevis- Angu i l la, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Tr in idad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. 198 They may be debited for paymen ts to residents of Grenada, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated au thor i ty to authorized dealers. Other debits and any ove rd ra f ts require individual approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South A f r ica are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license f rom all other countries. Certain other com- modities require ind iv idual licenses, unless they are imported f rom CARICOM countries. Payments for authorized impo r ts are perm i t ted upon application and submission of documen tary evidence (invoices and customs wa r ran t s) to the Ministry of P lann ing, Finance, and Trade; however, the M in is t ry has delegated to authorized dealers powers to approve the payment of imports or ig ina t ing in CARICOM coun- tries. Advance payments for imports also require prior approval by this Ministry. Imports of equipment, spare parts, and raw materials for the m a n u f a c t u re of approved goods are exempted f rom import duties. Imports not exempt f rom customs du ty are subject to a s tamp tax of 7.5 per cent of the c .i .f. value. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles require exchange control approval. Au tho r i ty has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of fore ign exchange for a few types of payments. These include fore ign travel ( f or which up to EC$3,000 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and up to EC$7,000 a person for business travel, or the equivalent of US$5,000 a year for travel outside the East Carib- bean Currency Au tho r i ty reg ion ), subscriptions to magazines and periodicals, and l i fe insurance prem iums on policies contracted before June 1975. With the exception of tourism, applications for add i t ional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation norma l ly are approved by the Ministry of P lann ing, Finance, and Trade, provided that no unau tho- rized t rans fer of capital is involved. Applications in respect of tourism in excess of EC$3,000 a person are considered on their merits. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted f rom the travel allocation. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes and coin up to the equivalent of EC$3,000 and East Caribbean currency notes w i thout l im i t. Non- resident travelers may freely export any fore ign cur- rency previously brought in. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. There are no formal regulations to ensure that export proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within a certain period from the date of shipment, but the collection of export proceeds is mandatory. Export duties are levied on animals and specified agricultural goods, such as bananas, cocoa, nutmeg, coconuts, copra, cotton, and limes and related products. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Travelers may bring in freely notes and coin in East Caribbean currency or in any foreign currency. Capital All ou tward capital transfers require exchange con- trol approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Gre- nada, and earnings on these securities must be repatri- ated. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require exchange control approval, which normally is granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. There are certain allowances for cash gifts (EC$500 a person a year) and for emigration purposes. The Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Trade will also consider transfer applications from for- eign nationals who have resided in Grenada and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad. Direct investment in Grenada by nonresidents may GRENADA be made with exchange control approval. The remit- tance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, provided that all liabilities related to the investment have been discharged and that the original investment was registered w i th the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Trade. Nonresidents may acquire in Grenada real estate for private purposes with funds in foreign currency; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. The repatriation of the pro- ceeds from the realization of such investments requires the approval of the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Trade. The approval of the Ministry is required for resi- dents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Grenada. Authorized dealers may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry. Gold Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not per- mitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Trade. The export of gold is not normally permitted. Changes during 1981 February 12. Consumption taxes were raised for certain import items. 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan Quetzal, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at Q 1 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are Q 1.00 and Q 1.01, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currenciesl are also officially quoted, mainly on the basis of their rates in the New York market. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On January 27, 1947 Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Administration of Control The Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala is in charge of administering the Emergency Regime for controlling international capital movements, including decisions on cases not specifically covered in this regime. However, the Department's decisions may be appealed before the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guatemala, while those of the private sector are made through banks authorized by the Monetary Board. Payments in foreign currency must be approved by the Foreign Exchange Department. Banks participating in the system may authorize some foreign payments under powers delegated by the Bank of Guatemala. Exports of goods and services must be registered in the Foreign Exchange Department to guar- antee the repatriation of the corresponding foreign exchange proceeds. Prescription of Currency In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in U.S. dollars. Transactions with other member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM )2 with respect to trade in invisibles are carried out in national currencies3 through the Central American Clearing House; clearing settlements are made in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy are required for imports of maps of Guatemala, coffee beans and coffee plants, explosives, lead, poultry, milk, eggs, sugar, butter, vegetable oil, wheat flour, basic food grains, cottonseed, and a few other goods. Imports of 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua. 3 With the exception of Costa Rica, transactions with which are effected in U.S. dollars through Costa Rican banks. 200 cocoa and tallow are prohibited f rom all sources. Imports from Honduras are regulated by a bilateral trade agreement. Merchandise imports must be registered with the Foreign Exchange Department or one of the autho- rized banks (imports from the other Central American countries covered by the General Treaty for Economic Integration of Central America are exempt from this requ iremen t); the Bank of Gua tema la will issue foreign exchange licenses for import payments only against original bills of lading and invoices with statistical infor- mation consistent with the import registration. Except in the case of transactions below US$5,000 and imports made directly by authorized banks on behalf of importers with letters of credit or trade credits, a 25 per cent guarantee deposit, to be made at the time of requesting foreign exchange, is required in the case of prepayments for imports. Deposits may be made in cash, bank guar- antees, or government bonds, and are refundab le when the Bank of Guatemala has received f rom the importer a document issued by customs ve r i fy ing the a r r ival of the merchandise. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Guatemala grants du ty exon- erations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Imports or ig ina t ing outside the Central American Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are limits on payments for invisibles, as fol- lows: Study abroad (1) purchases of foreign exchange for study abroad are limited to US$1,000 for moving expenses and a monthly allowance of US$300-US$500 for room and board; no limit is applied on remittances for tuition expenses, and additional amounts may be approved in bona fide cases; (2) remittances to depen- dents abroad are restricted to a monthly limit of US$500 but not exceeding US$1,250 a fam i ly; Travel abroad (3) foreign exchange allowances for nonbusiness travel abroad are limited for each person to US$100 a day, US$3,000 a trip, and US$6,000 a year (brought under these limits are trips abroad paid for in local currency and the use abroad of credit ca rd s ), for children from 12 to 18 years of age the l im i ts are US$50 a day, US$1,500 a trip, and US$3,000 a year, for children under 12 years the limits are US$25, US$750, and US$1,500, respectively; for nonbusiness travel to other Central American countries, the limits are the same as those applied for travel abroad, except that only 50 per cent of those limits for adult travelers outside the region can be obtained in U.S. dollars; for foreign exchange allocations in excess of US$500 a person, a guaran tee deposit equivalent to 25 per cent of the exchange pur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution chased is required, which is re funded on presentation of evidence showing the number of days spent abroad or, if appropriate, the sale of the unused amount to an authorized bank; (4) foreign exchange allowances for business travel abroad are limited to US$150 a day, with no ceiling applied on each trip or each year, pro- vided that it can be established that the expenses are borne by the firm for which the trip is under taken; (5) foreign exchange is authorized for medical treat- ment abroad provided that the need is substantiated; substantiation of the use of foreign exchange must be submitted within 30 days of the individual's re turn to Guatemala; and (6) remittances abroad by foreign workers are limited to one third or two thirds of their salaries, within monthly limits of Q 500 or Q 1,250 a recipient, depending upon whether the immediate fam i ly resides in Guatemala or abroad; there is a monthly l im it of Q 1,500 on em igra t ing foreigners wishing to t rans fer their severance pay and the proceeds f rom the sale of their property in Guatemala. Bona fide requests beyond these limits can be granted upon application to the Monetary Board. All international air passages are sub- ject to a tax of 10 per cent. Receipts from invisibles accruing to residents must be declared and sold to the Bank of Guatemala or to an authorized private commercial bank. Exempted from this requirement are foreign exchange earnings of for- eign nationals f rom their investments or other operations abroad while these earnings are maintained outside Guatemala. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. Exports of a few other items are prohibited, including the export of gold (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license) and silver in any fo rm. Travelers may, however, take out up to Q 25 in silver coin that is legal tender in foreign coun- tries. Exporters must obtain export licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Department before the Guate- malan customs can authorize shipment of the merchan- dise; the gran t ing of export licenses is contingent on agreement to sell export proceeds to the Bank of Guate- mala w i th in three months of the date of issuance (six months for exports to the other Central American coun tr ies). Capital All existing foreign assets held abroad by Guatemalan residents and all obligations to foreigners must be regis- tered w i th the Bank of Gua tema la; such registration is a precondition for authorizing remittances of dividends, profits, interest, and amortization. Any other outward capital transfer is prohibited. All investment by fore ign or foreign-controlled companies in the construction of pr iva te housing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. Investment in the petro- leum sector is governed by special legislation. GUATEMALA Gold The Bank of Guatemala is obliged to purchase all gold offered to it, either directly or through the banks, and is entitled to require the surrender, directly or th rough authorized banks, of the gold holdings of any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artistic or indus t r ial users, in accordance with directives of the Mone ta ry Board. The export of gold is prohibited except when the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Gua tema la. Changes during 1981 September 14. Regulations on paymen ts for invisibles were tightened as follows: (a) Study abroad: The installation allowance was halved to Q 1,000 and also the mon th ly allowance, f rom Q 1,000 to Q 5 00 for each un ivers i ty s tuden t, while a new limit of Q 300 a mon th was imposed for other s tu- dents. (The Foreign Exchange Department may approve higher amounts in du ly jus t if ied cases.) Proof of s tudent s ta tus was required to be established only once a year (instead of every six months as prev ious ly). (b) Travel abroad: For nonbusiness travel outside Central America, the daily allowance was halved from Q 200 to Q 100 a person as was the overall l im it a t r ip, to Q 3,000. A new annual limit of Q 6,000 was estab- lished, and trips abroad paid for in local currency and the use abroad of credit cards were brought under the limits. For children f rom 12 to 18 years of age, the daily allowance was set at Q 50 up to Q 1,500 a t r ip and Q 3,000 a year, and for children up to 12 years of age, those l im i ts were set at Q 25, Q 750, and Q 1,500, respec- tively. Nonbusiness travel to other Central Amer ican countries (previously not subject to limits on exchange sales) was b rought under the limits for travel outside the region, with the proviso that only 50 per cent of the limits for adult travelers could now be obtained in U.S. dollars. The balance would be provided in Central Amer ican currencies or local currency checks payab le th rough the Cen tral American Clearing House. Exchange sales for business travel abroad (previously governed by the general travel per diem of Q 200) were limited to Q 150 a day w i thout any ceiling applied on each trip or each year, provided that it could be established that the expenses were borne by the firm for which the trip was under taken. Subject to proper documen ta t ion, the For- eign Exchange Department could approve requests for business travel of up to Q 200 a day. In addition, the guaran tee deposit on exchange purchases for travel abroad (except business and official t rave l) was raised f r om 10 per cent to 25 per cent. The limit beyond which the deposit must be lodged on the f u ll amount of the exchange purchase was however lowered f rom Q 1,500 to Q 500. (c) Medical treatment abroad: The initial exchange allowance of up to Q 5,000 for medical expenses abroad 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA was withdrawn, but, as before, exchange for such expenses would be provided above the specified limit subject to ex post verification. (d) Family remittances: The monthly limits on family remittances were halved to Q 500 a recipient and to Q 1,250 a recipient fam i ly; the remitter's financial cir- cumstances became a fac tor to be considered in autho- rizing remittances within the specified limits. (e) Remittances of nonresident income: The monthly limits on remittances of certain types of income were halved to Q 500 a recipient and to Q 1,250 a recipient fam i ly; the affected items were rentals, usufructs, interest and dividends on property located in Guatemala or on funds invested in Guatemala but not considered foreign investments, pensions, annuities, and payments from other schemes approved by the Foreign Exchange Department. (Those receiving remittances under this facility continued to be ineligible for fam i ly remittances, and vice versa.) (f) Remittances by resident foreigners: Resident for- eigners with families residing in Guatemala would con- tinue to be eligible to remit abroad one third of their monthly salary, but subject to a monthly limit of Q 500. If all or part of the fam i ly resides abroad, two thirds of the salary would continue to be eligible for remittance abroad, subject to a new limit of Q 1,250 a month; in addition, a monthly limit of Q 1,500 was placed on emi- grating foreigners wishing to transfer abroad their sever- ance pay and the proceeds from the sale of their property in Guatemala. (g) Domestic use of foreign credit cards by residents: Use of foreign exchange for the settlement of charges resulting from the domestic use of credit cards issued abroad was limited to Q 100 a person a month. 202 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea is the Guinean Syli, which is pegged to the SDR at GS 24.6853 = SDR 1. Exchange rates for 14 currencies * quoted by the Cen- tral Bank of the Republic of Guinea are determined on the basis of the value of the syli in terms of the SDR and the transaction value of these currencies in terms of the SDR. Exchange rates for the CFA f ranc and the Mali franc result f rom the relationship between these currencies and the French franc. Exchange rates for other currencies 2 are determined in accordance with the appropriate cross rates in international markets. There is a free parallel market in which most nonofficial transactions are settled. Transactions under the bilateral payments agreement with the People's Republic of China are settled in renm inbi at the rate of GS 10.030 per renminbi 1. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank, which is under the direct supervision of the Presidency. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require approval by the Central Exchange Bureau of the Cen- tral Bank. Import and export licenses are issued by IMPORTEX, a state enterprise, within the framework of annual import and export programs. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements.3 Settlements with the Central Bank of West A f r ican States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Maur i tan ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Set- tlements with other countries are made in designated "convertible" currencies quoted by the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Non- resident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies and Nonresident Accounts in Sylis. The opening of a nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Central Exchange Bureau. 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Sierra Leonean leones, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Principally the Saudi Arabian riyal. 3 Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with Algeria, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Lebanon, and Viet Nam; all but the agreement with China are inoperative. Imports and Import Payments All imports (as well as exports) are centralized at the level of IMPORTEX. The import licenses are of two types: "licenses with settlement" and "licenses w i thout settlement" (i.e., imports are financed by the importers' own foreign exchange). The first type of license is ma in ly for those imports of the public enterprises and ministries that are part of the import program, while the second type of license is for the private sector imports. Regarding the public sector, an annual program of imports is presented by each public enterprise and for- warded to the respective m in is try, which aggregates its overall import needs before fo rwa rd ing them to IMPORTEX. These requests are discussed by an inter- ministerial committee (commision de controle des licenses), which has the u l t ima te au thor i ty to decide on the final composition of imports; on this basis, annual import quotas are allocated to each ministry. If one ministry's requirements should exceed its quota, it would have to make a special request to the intermin- isterial committee; the determining criterion in such cases is the urgency of the need. In any case, any extra amount allowed beyond the original quota would nor- mally be deducted f rom the quota for the following year. The execution of the import program is closely monitored to ensure that actual imports comply with the authorities' imports. Should the foreign exchange situation permit, an annual program could be expanded in favor of necessities. Once an import license has been issued, authoriza- tion for the corresponding payment is granted by the Central Exchange Bureau. Imports by foreign conces- sion holders require import licenses for statistical pur- poses only and are not restricted. The annual import program takes into consideration the sources of imports and the availability of convertible currencies and of balances under payments agreements. Certain imports, inc lud ing most private sector imports, are effec ted outside the import program. This category comprises goods for which fore ign exchange is derived from sources other than the official foreign exchange resources of Guinea and covers mainly imports by two "mixed-economy companies" (the Friguia Company and the Guinea Bauxite Company ), the fore ign embassies, imports made directly for the execution of the Five-Year Plan, and imports by pri- vate traders not involving purchase of foreign exchange through the official market (sans reglement financier). All commodities are subject to import surcharges, except when imported by the "mixed-economy com- panies." Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles through the official for- eign exchange market require the authorization of the 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA Central Exchange Bureau. Payments for freight and insurance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import license. No official exchange is granted for other types of insurance with companies abroad. There is no official exchange allocation for tourist or business travel; each application is consid- ered individually. Government officials on official missions are permitted an allowance of GS 600 a day. Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equivalent of GS 16,351 for each pilgrimage and, in addition, up to GS 22,000 to pay for fares. In cases of serious illness, where a doctor's certificate is submitted, residents are granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or are permitted to transfer exchange for the care of rela- tives receiving medical treatment abroad. Individual authorization is required for the payment in Guinea of all fares for foreign travel. Payments for fam i ly support through the official market may be made up to monthly amounts deter- mined on the merits of the case; for officially recognized study abroad, the allocation is the equivalent of the amount of a government scholarship, i.e., GS 2,500 a mon th, but students beginning their studies abroad are granted an additional foreign exchange allowance of up to GS 4,000. The Foreign Investment Law guaran- tees that at least 20 per cent of the net annual profits of approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad through the official market; the percentage actually permitted depends on the agreement concluded between the enterprise concerned and the Government. Expatriate workers employed by the public sector in Guinea may transfer abroad through the official market 40 per cent of their net monthly salaries, and those employed by the private sector are permitted to trans- fer up to 30 per cent of their net monthly salaries on the same basis. The export of Guinean currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds IMPORTEX establishes an annual export program for all public sector exports except those of the "mixed- economy .companies." All exports require individual licenses in order to (1) assure the implementation of the export program (particularly in respect of commitments under bilateral trade agreements); (2) permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e.g., special taxes payable in foreign exchange are levied on the volume of bauxite and alumina exported); (3) prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption; and (4) prevent the export of capital. For the following commodities, spe- cial authorization from designated agencies is required in addition to the export license: wild animals (dead or alive), edible animals, articles of historic or ethno- graphic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. An export license is granted only when the exporter assumes the obligation 204 to surrender the proceeds immediately after they are collected. Foreign planters may be granted special transfer privileges related to the quantity of pineapples, bananas, or citrus fruits exported, and private traders may also be permitted to retain a part of their export proceeds in order to finance authorized imports. The "mixed- economy companies" are allowed to retain their export proceeds abroad, to pay for their imports and operating requirements, and to service their external debt. For diamond producers, there is an auction arrangement operated by the Central Bank, under which producers are paid 60 per cent of proceeds in foreign currency and the remainder is converted at the official exchange rate. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles are required to be surrendered. The import of foreign banknotes and travelers checks is permitted freely, subject to declaration on entry, but both must, in principle, be surrendered within 24 hours af ter entry. Nonresident travelers may repurchase and re-export the foreign exchange declared upon entry, af ter deduction of their local expenditures; this deduc- tion may not be less than the equivalent of US$20 for each day of their stay, unless evidence can be produced to show that actual expenditure was less. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers through the official market require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals through the official market are prohibited. The Foreign Investment Law of April 5, 1962 pro- vides guarantees against the nationalization of foreign investments in the industrial and mining sectors. It also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment applicable to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and liquidation proceeds of such investments. Under a special investment law passed in August 1977, freedom of movement and other privileges are granted to funds remitted and placed in Guinean banks by nonresident Guineans. In accordance with the terms of the Investment Law of February 1, 1980, small and medium-sized enterprises in which at least GS 25 million is invested over a 3-year period may receive tax exemptions for a period of 7 to 10 years. Exemptions for up to 25 years may be granted on long- term investments of particular importance to the economy. There are arrears on external payments, mostly in respect of debt service payments. Gold Guinea has four issues of commemorative gold coin, which are legal tender. Furthermore, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guinea for numismatic pur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution poses. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Changes during 1981 April 20. As part of a reorganization of the market- ing system, private traders were authorized to buy agricultural products directly from the producers and to resell or export them directly. September 17. Ministerial Order No. 106 was issued, limiting the scope of state t rad ing in imports to cement, educational and pharmaceutical supplies, fuel, steel, sugar, cooking oil, rice, and spare parts and raw ma- terials for the state enterprises. October 14. Decree No. 563 was introduced, giving individual public enterprises autonomy in their financial operations, including the programing of exports and imports. GUINEA 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the Guinea-Bissau Peso, which is pegged to the SDR at PG 44 = SDR 1. The authorities maintain the rate for the Guinea-Bissau peso within margins of 2.25 per cent of the fixed rela- tionship between the peso and the SDR, i.e., between maximum and m in imum rates of PG 44.99 and PG 43.01, respectively, per SDR 1. Daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, and for other foreign currencies are fixed within limits of 1.8 per cent of the SDR rates for these curren- cies. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates of the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar were PG 37.1216 and PG 38.4824, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Foreign Exchange Department of the central bank. Foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the central bank. Residents must declare to the central bank all their physical assets and foreign exchange holdings abroad. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all foreign countries must be made in foreign currency. The central bank may prescribe the currency in which export earnings shall be received. Guinea-Bissau maintains bilateral payments agreements with Algeria and Cape Verde. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to prior licensing. In principle, licenses are issued by the Ministry of Fisheries, Com- merce, and Handicrafts on the basis of a monthly ceil- ing fixed by the central bank and are valid for the period of the import transaction. Licenses granted have to be presented to the central bank within 15 days. Only importers registered with the Ministry of Fisheries, Commerce, and Handicrafts may receive licenses. Each license specifies the quantity and value (c.i.f. and f.o.b.) of the product imported, and a separate license is required for each product. Licenses for project-related imports financed by foreign loans or grants are granted automatically. Import licenses are normally provided within 8 to 15 days of a documented request. Imports of essential foodstuffs, such as rice and sugar, are state monopolies. Since November 1977 the system of import licenses 206 has been suspended and only those import operations considered urgent or essential are permitted. There are some arrears of payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Committee of Foreign Exchange Control. Foreign exchange allocations for many payments for invisibles, including those for tourism and for the purchase of stocks, bonds, real estate, and profit remittances, have been temporarily suspended. Transfers of pension pay- ments are authorized in accordance with specific cri- teria. Although no foreign exchange may be purchased for tourism, airplane tickets can be bought using do- mestic currency. Moreover, purchases of Cape Verde escudos for purposes of tourism in that country are permitted up to the equivalent of PG 10,000 a person. Airline companies may t rans fer in fo re ign exchange the difference between their payments and receipts in Guinea-Bissau pesos. These transfers are approved on an ad hoc basis. Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are limited to PG 15,000 a trip. For study abroad foreign exchange is granted up to PG 6,000 in the first month and PG 3,500 in each of the following months (PG 5,000 for students enrolled in middle-level and higher-level courses). Allowances for travel for health reasons are permitted up to PG 20,000. Remittances to close relatives (paren ts and children) living abroad are permitted up to PG 2,500 a month. Foreign trav- elers may take out any rema in ing foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Only exporters registered with the Ministry of Fisheries, Commerce, and Handicrafts may obtain export licenses, which are granted automatically in most cases. Exports of ground- nuts are reserved for the Government and are effected by two state companies, the People's Stores and SOCOMI. Other products exported only by the Government include palm kernels, sawn wood and logs, shrimp, fish, beer, nonalcoholic beverages, groundnut oil, and parquet flooring. All exports are subject to a general fee of 1 per cent. Most exports are also subject to export taxes, which range from 3 per cent for firewood to 15 per cent for crocodile hides, with most products in the 9-10 per cent range. All export proceeds must be surrendered to the central bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign cur- rency. Foreign airline companies must cover the excess of their expenditures over revenues in Guinea- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU Bissau pesos by transfers from abroad or by the sale of their foreign exchange receipts for Guinea-Bissau pesos. All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. Capital Foreign investment operations are guided by the Investment Code introduced in 1980. Under this Code, exchange control is exercised over capital receipts and payments. Capital transfers associated with emigration are authorized by the "transitory norms" within a monthly limit of PG 50,000 and up to 20 per cent of total taxable income earned during a period of not more than ten years. At present, however, such trans- fers are suspended. Gold Exports and imports of gold are prohibited, except when authorized by the Chief State Commissar and the Ministry of Finance. Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guyana is the Guyana Dollar. Changes in the external value of the Guyana dollar are determined by the movement in the rates of a selected composite of currencies, consisting of the deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pound sterling, the Trinidad and Tobago dollar, and the U.S. dollar. Changes in the value of the Guyana dollar against the U.S. dollar are made when there is a significant divergence between the existing rate and the rate indicated by the currency composite. On December 31, 1981 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were G$2.9981 and G$3.0131, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted. The Bank of Guyana ( the central bank) charges commis- sions at different rates on the purchase and sale of the officially quoted currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Guyana formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Minister of Finance who has entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. Authority for approving current payments up to specified amounts is delegated to the banks authorized for this purpose; all other import payments and certain payments in respect of current invisibles of a personal nature require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. The Ministry of Trade is respon- sible for issuing import and export licenses, but import licenses require the endorsement of the Bank of Guyana. Prescription of Currency Exchange control applies to all countries, and all currencies other than the Guyana dollar are considered foreign currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Guyana to resi- dents of countries outside Guyana may be made in any foreign currency or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts from coun- tries outside Guyana may be obtained in any foreign currency (in any listed specified currency2 for export proceeds) or in Guyana dollars from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. 1 Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. 2 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 208 External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons resident outside Guyana. They may be credited freely with all authorized pay- ments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents and with transfers from other External Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to residents of any country, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for with- drawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts may, in principle, be credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of non- residents (e.g., certain capital proceeds); these accounts may be debited for certain authorized payments, in- cluding the purchase of approved securities. Since mid-1978 Blocked Accounts have been used to hold domestic currency deposits equivalent in value to pending applications for foreign exchange. Such deposits carry a market-related interest rate but no exchange rate guarantee. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Imports of certain commodities are prohibited from all sources; for some goods, however, the prohibition is not enforced, while others are subject to quotas, if they qualify for duty-free access (under the rules of origin applicable to imports from countries of the Caribbean Common Marke t —CARICOM) .3 All permissible imports (except parcel post items and trade samples up to a specified va lue ), irrespective of origin, are subject to individual licensing. The gran t ing of individual licenses and the conditions attached thereto depend on current policy; some goods are subject to quota while others are licensed freely. Import licenses for commodities origi- nating in Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Repub- lic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. are generally granted freely, but such imports must be effected through public sector corporations. Public sector corporations have a monopoly over the import of speci- fied commodities from all sources. Certain goods, primarily paper products, such as books and newsprint, may be imported only through the Guyana National Trading Corporation, while pharmaceuticals, other drugs, and surgical instruments may be imported only through the Guyana Pharmaceutical Corporation. Cer- tain foods tuffs may be imported only by the Guyana Marketing Corporation, e.g., those that fall under the agricultural marketing protocol of the CARIFTA/ CARICOM Agreement. 3 The CARICOM countries are An t igua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis- Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for authorized imports are generally per- mitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence, subject to the availability of foreign exchange. There has been some accumulation of commercial arrears. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries require approval, which, except for tourist travel, is usually given freely, provided that no illegal capital transfer is involved, but there has been some accumulation of arrears. The basic annual exchange allocation for tourist travel is G$200 a person and is not cumulative. The allocation for education depends on individual circumstances. Resident and nonresident travelers are subject on departure to an exit tax of G$25 a person. Persons traveling abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$40; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. The equivalent of G$50 may be taken out in actual currency notes as part of the foreign exchange allowance for foreign travel. Nonresident travelers may, within one month of their last entry, freely take out any foreign currency notes declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Rice may be exported only by the Guyana Rice Board, sugar only by the Guyana Sugar Corporation, and bauxite and a lum ina only by the Guyana M in ing Enterprise Limited. Certain other exports also are channeled through official agencies. Most exports do not require export licenses, but transactions are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in listed specified currencies (see footnote 2 ), sur- rendered. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all exports exceeding G$200 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see footnote 2) received on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in foreign banknotes; domestic banknotes up to a value of G$40 may be brought in by returning travelers only. Capital Private investment, both foreign and domestic, is governed by the Private Investment Code of 1979. Foreign investors must apply to the Bank of Guyana for "approved status" for new investments at the time of investment in order to be able to repatriate capital. Such approval is normally given for direct investments in new projects that would benefit the balance of pay- ments or the economy of Guyana; "approved status" assures that profits may be remitted, and that upon liquidation of the investment, the proceeds, including any GUYANA capital increments af ter payment of all taxes, may be repatriated in fu ll in the currency of the original invest- ment. For the time being, however, foreign-based companies (other than those based in the CARICOM area) and their subsidiaries are prohibited from borrow- ing in Guyana. The export of capital by residents is not normally permitted. Listed specified currencies (see foo tno te 2) obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank, but other cur- rencies may be retained by the recipient. Emigrants of Guyanese nationality may not t rans fer abroad any part of their capital assets other than a settling-in allow- ance of G$100 for each member of a fam i ly un i t; emigrants of fo re ign nationality may export all declared capital assets, an amount of G$24,000 a fam i ly un it at the time of emigration and G$ 17,300 in each successive calendar year. Borrowing f rom nonresidents requires exchange con- trol approval. However, publicly owned enterprises are encouraged to borrow abroad for the f inanc ing of spe- cific projects and in some instances for working capital purposes. Since mid-1979 any borrowing by a public sector corporation is subject to prior approval by the Government Debt Committee. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for num isma t ic purposes, and also jewelry. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authori- ties, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and author- ized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad, without special permission. Neither the Bank of Guyana nor any other official institution purchases gold to supply domestic industry. Imports and exports of gold in any form by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold and industrial users, require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade. Residents traveling abroad are allowed to take out with them jewelry up to a value of C$600, G$400, and G$200, for women, men, and children under 12 years of age, respectively. Changes during 1981 June 2. Changes were made in the exchange arrange- ment as follows: (a) the Guyana dollar was depreciated from the equivalent of G$2.55 per US$1 to G$3.00 per US$1; (b) it was announced that subsequent changes in the external va lue of the Guyana dollar would be determined by the movement in the rates of a selected composite of currencies, initially consisting of the deutsche mark, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the Trinidad and Tobago dollar, and the U.S. dollar; and (c) fu tu re changes in the value of the Guyana dollar against the U.S. dollar would be made in the event of a significant divergence between the above rate and the rate registered by the basket. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the Haitian Gourde, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at G5 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are G5 per US$1. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Haiti. Purchases of foreign exchange are subject to a local tax of 0.20 per cent. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. On December 22, 1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and there are no obli- gations prescribing the method or currency for pay- ments to or from nonresidents. The administration of the foreign exchange system is under the control of the Bank of the Republic of Haiti (the central bank) and exchange transactions are implemented by that Bank and certain commercial banks. Imports and Import Payments Importation of certain consumer goods is prohibited for a two-year period to end in early 1983. Import licenses are required for certain foods tuffs, certain foot- wear, cotton textiles, paints, and iron rods. The impor- tation of used automobiles is subject to the requirement that the vehicle is at most five years old and has been owned by the importer for a minimum of two years. Imports from member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance require prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Ministry's prior authorization is also required for imports from any source of specified types of footwear and of a few other items that are controlled for other than balance of payments reasons. The domestic mar- keting of certain imports is controlled by the State Tobacco Monopoly. A unified and simplified system of import tar iffs came into effect in May 1981. Importers pay an "economic liberation tax" on the amount of the customs invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of coffee require prior authorization from the Haitian Coffee Institute. Exports require prior authorization from the Office for the Promotion of Exportable Goods; such authorization is usually given freely but may be withheld when domestic supplies are low. Exports of essential oils are regulated by the Marketing Office for Aromatic Essences. Foreign exchange proceeds from major export commodities 210 (coffee, essential oils, meat, and other agricultural goods) must be surrendered. Exporters are required to negotiate documentary d ra f ts with local commercial banks to ensure the repatriation of their export pro- ceeds, and the banks are to advise the central bank of transactions pertaining to the ma jor export commodities. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts of private transfers must be surrendered through the central bank. Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Residents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 20 on tickets and must buy a G 25,000 travel insurance policy by paying a premium of G 52; diplo- mats and staff members of international organizations are exempt. Capital Capital transfers abroad are not normally permitted but imports may be made freely. Foreign investment in Haiti is regulated by a law of August 16, 1960 and a decree of March 13, 1963 and requires prior govern- ment approval. Permission is not normally granted to nonresidents for investments in handicraft industries. Under a decree of April 6, 1973, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep in the form of domestic assets a minimum of 85 per cent of their liabilities to local customers. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than monetary authorities and authorized indus- trial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form o ther than jewelry, at home or abroad. The Bank of the Republic of Haiti has the exclusive right to purchase gold domestically and to export gold in the fo rm of coin, m ineral dust, or bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the Bank of the Republic of Haiti; exports require in addition prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance, while imports for indus tr ial use require prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try and the Ministry of Finance, as well as an endorsement by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry before customs clearance. However, commercial imports of articles containing a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes during 1981 February 26. A two-year prohibition was placed on the importation of a number of consumer goods, con- sisting of green and toasted coffee, candies, food paste, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution soap, detergents, footwear, mattresses, aluminum, enam- elware or plastic housewares, refined or un re f ined oil, kerosene stoves, secondhand papers, matches, polyester fabric for hosiery, rum, beer, alcohol, pastries, bread, ju te bags, f r u it juices, tubes, and vinegar; importation of 60 other consumer goods was made subject to licens- ing requirements to be reviewed on a quarterly basis. April 9. In reinforcement of existing measures for the development of domestic industries, a decree was issued strengthening official guarantees for investments in the indus tr ial sector. May 25. A new un if ied and simplified system of import t a r i f f s, on which legislation was passed in Jan- ua ry 1981, became fu l ly operational. Tariff rates on certain products, notably luxury goods, were increased in the process of unification. July 21. The central bank issued instructions that the exchange houses should negotiate all foreign exchange receipts with the National Credit Bank —a state-owned commercial bank — for eventual t rans fer to the central bank; such funds are to be allocated for the payment of imports of the five basic commodities: petroleum products, wheat, oilseeds, sugar, and rice. August 15. The central bank introduced a require- HAITI ment that the proceeds from ma jor export commodities (namely, coffee, essential oils, meat, and other agricul- tu ral exports) as well as from private transfers should be surrendered. While receipts of private transfers would be required to be surrendered through the cen- tral bank, exporters would be required to negotiate documentary d ra f ts with local commercial banks for the purpose of repatriation of export proceeds, and the banks should advise the central bank of such transac- tions in the case of the specified ma jor export com- modities. The commercial banks would be required to sell to importers the foreign exchange they had bought f rom exporters of these commodities, in accordance with a priority list, or alternatively to sell the fo re ign exchange to the central bank on request, should the latter choose to pay for some of these imports directly. Foreign exchange for other imports would be provided by the commercial banks f rom their own resources, in accordance with an indicative order of priority estab- lished by the central bank. September 28. A decree was issued (mod i fy ing the Law of August 7, 1980 and the Decree of October 28, 1980) adapting the provisions of the income tax and fiscal systems to the prevailing circumstances. 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Honduras is the Honduran Lempira, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at L2 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are L 2.00 and L 2.02, respec- tively, per US$1. Banknotes in Costa Rican colones, Guatemalan quetzales, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salva- doran colones are purchased at parity rates with a 1 per cent commission and are sold at parity rates. The buy- ing and selling rates for other currencies that are of significance to the foreign trade of Honduras are fixed daily on the basis of the buying and selling rates of the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar in fore ign markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On August 19, 1950, Honduras forma l ly notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beginning on July 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Pay- ments among member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM)1 in respect of trade and invisibles must be settled in the domestic currency of the payer through the Central American Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Pay- ments and transfers abroad may be made freely; how- ever, for statistical purposes, buyers of foreign exchange are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Certain essential imports (List 1) require prior approval from the Central Bank of Honduras when they are to be made on credit terms. Certain nonessential imports (List 2) also are subject to central bank approval; the use of external credit to pay for these goods is prohibited. Imports of goods not appearing on either list do not require central bank approval, provided that payment is on sight terms. Imports may be subjected to official checks for appro- priate pricing. As a restraint on import prepayment, authorization by the Central Bank is required when payments for imports by bank d r a f ts exceed US$5,000. Depending on the foreign exchange situation, the Cen- tral Bank may subject the allocation of foreign exchange for imported goods and services to a set of policy- determined priorities. The import of corn, rice, sor- ghum, beans, and potatoes is the monopoly of the Honduran Institute of Agricultural Marketing. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- 1 Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua. 212 ment on Fiscal Incentives, Honduras grants duty exon- erations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Most imports f rom countries outside the CACM are subject to customs duty. Imports f rom the CACM are subject to customs duties rang ing f rom zero to 35 per cent, under bilateral trade agreement. Some goods are subject to a customs surtax of 12 per cent of the du ty and to a consular charge of 8 per cent of the f.o.b. value. There is a duty-free zone in Puerto Cortes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses and are subject to prior authorization of the Central Bank. All fore ign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to either the Cen tral Bank or to authorized banks or institutions. In general, the surrender of export proceeds must be made w i th in 90 days following the negotiation of export documents. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Honduran Coffee Institute, and exports of bananas by the Honduran Banana Corporation. The export of corn, rice, beans, and potatoes is controlled by the Honduran Institute of Agricultural Marketing, and lumber exports are chan- neled through the Honduran Forest Development Cor- poration (COHDEFOR). There is an export tax on cattle, meat, and sugar, and a general export du ty of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value of all other export items except bananas, coffee, cattle, meat, sugar, and minerals. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are subject to a surrender requirement. All purchases of fore ign exchange in excess of US$5,000 require prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank. Within this l im i t, persons trave l ing abroad may purchase foreign currency notes and coin in an amount not exceeding US$100 a person. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes by travelers. Capital The authorization of the M in is ter of Finance and approval by the Central Bank are required for all activities implying the receipt of resources and their t rans fer abroad for purposes of investment in mutual fund s, housing developments, real estate, or similar activities. Foreign mu tual funds and similar financial ins t i tu t ions require permission to collect funds in Hon- duras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of the M in is try of Finance, the Council of Economic Planning, and the Central Bank is required for the public sector to contract any foreign indebtedness, whether for import financing or for other purposes. The contracting of external debt by the private sector requires approval by the Central Bank. External debt ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution contracts must be registered with the Central Bank, which provides foreign exchange for the servicing of only properly registered and approved external debt. The contracting of external financing must conform with specified priorities. Sight and term deposits in foreign currency at the banks are subject to a reserve require- ment of 30 per cen t; the reserve requirement for certificates of deposit of US$25,000 and above is 20 per cent and 15 per cent for savings deposits in foreign currency w i th savings and loan associations. Foreign exchange holdings in excess of specified limits may be required to be sold by the banks to the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Hon- duras for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and autho- rized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally pro- duced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to a tax of 5 per cent. Changes during 1981 April 29. With the exception of specified essential products, import tax rates were increased by 10 per- centage points for final consumer goods and by 5 per- centage points for other goods. May 26. With the exception of external reserve liabili- ties of the Central Bank and drawings under the Mexico- Venezuela oil facility, net use by the public sector of foreign credit having an original maturity of less than ten years was limited to the equivalent of US$25 mil- lion du r ing the second semester of 1981. September 18. With a view to stemming capital out- flow, exchange control regulations were tightened as follows: (a) all foreign exchange receipts were made subject to obligatory surrender; (b) the Central Bank * was authorized to require the banks to sell to it foreign exchange holdings in excess of limits which may be established; (c) the Central Bank was authorized to allocate foreign exchange in accordance with the fol- lowing priorities: external financial payments, essential HONDURAS consumer items, health products, educational materials, fuel and lubricants, raw materials, agricultural and industrial inputs, machinery, equipment, and spare parts, and other goods and services; (d) prior authorization from the Central Bank was introduced for exports, with the addition that before issuing licenses for exports, the adequacy of the prices and the applicant's compliance with surrender requirements for previous export trans- actions would be checked by the Central Bank; (e) the surrender of export proceeds must be made in general w i th in 90 days following the negotiation of documents; (f) all imports could be subjected to checks for appro- priate pricing; (g) authorization by the Central Bank would be required to be obtained when payments for imports by bank draf ts exceed US$5,000; (h) the con- tracting of external loans and credits must conform with the following descending order of priorities in financing: export financing and prefinancing of exports, raw material imports and other inputs for agriculture and industry, imports of machinery and equipment for agriculture and industry, financing of directly produc- tive investment projects and others specifically approved by the Central Bank; and (i) external debt contracts must be'registered with the Central Bank, and foreign exchange for debt servicing would be provided only for properly registered and approved external debts. November 4. The Central Bank was authorized to contract short-term foreign financing, either directly or in agreement with the commercial banks, in an amount not to exceed US$50 million, to provide special pre- export financing for coffee and sugar. November 4. The ceiling on interest rates for loans financed with foreign funds was eliminated. (Follow- ing a period in which the ceiling was at 19 per cent, the Central Bank had been authorized in May 1981 to charge the higher of 19 per cent or 3l/2 percentage points over the cost of fore ign f u n d s .) November 4. The reserve requirement was reduced f rom 40 per cent to 30 per cent for sight and term deposits in foreign currency, and from 35 per cent to 20 per cent for certificates of deposits of US$25,000 and above, and from 30 per cent to 15 per cent for savings deposits in foreign currency savings held by the loan and savings associations. Existing conditions for pr iva te sector fore ign borrowing were relaxed, provided the funds were used for production-oriented activities. November 4. In the context of central bank regula- tion of foreign loans for export financing, authorization was given for the foreign banks to make automatic deduction for repayment of such loans upon collection of export payments. 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position on December 31, 1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong is the Hong Kong Dollar. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions in Hong Kong, and exchange rates for the Hong Kong dollar are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. The authorities intervene only when necessary in order to smooth out exceptional fluctuations in exchange rates so as to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates in the interbank foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were HK$5.6730 and HK$5.6770, respec- tively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. Import and export licensing is carried out mainly by the Director of Trade, Industry, and Customs. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements between residents of Hong Kong and nonresidents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and non- resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free from licensing control, except for certain dutiable commodities, items controlled for health, safety, or security reasons, and textiles that are subject to licensing control for surveillance reasons. With a few exceptions a trade declaration must be lodged with the Department of Trade, Industry, and Customs within 14 days of importation in respect of each consignment of goods imported to or exported f rom Hong Kong. The import of rice is subject to a quota system operated by that Department. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely, at any time, and in any currency. xH o ng Kong is a nonmetropolitan terr i tory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only to enable Hong Kong to fu l f i ll its in terna t ional obligations and for health, safety, or security reasons. Textiles are also subject to licensing control, partly because of a number of bilateral arrangements with specified coun tr ies under which the export of certain textiles is restricted. Export proceeds may be collected at any time and in any cur- rency. They need not be repa tr ia ted or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts f rom invisibles. Resident and nonresident travelers may freely bring in and take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes, travelers checks, and other means of payment. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. A license is required before any company, whether incorporated in Hong Kong or elsewhere, can do bank- ing business in Hong Kong. Subject to certain condi- tions, an overseas bank can establish a representative office in Hong Kong and may also register a subsidiary as a deposit-taking company. The subsidiary company may not, however, conduct bank ing business or use the word "bank" in its title. Gold There is a free market for gold in which dealings by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted. Imports and exports of gold in any form (including finished jewe lry) are freely permitted and do not require licenses. Residents may hold gold in any form in Hong Kong or abroad. A gold coin of HK$ 1,000 is legal tender but does not circulate. Changes during 1981 January 22. Following the revocation of the Export of Goods (Control) (Iran Sanctions) Order 1980 by the United Kingdom, Hong Kong announced that normal trade with Iran could be resumed. May 27. The mora tor ium on the g ran t ing of banking licenses was eased, so that companies incorporated in Hong Kong or elsewhere and meeting certain criteria could apply for bank ing licenses. The grant of a license remained at the discretion of the Governor-in-Council. 214 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY1 (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hungary is the Hungarian Forint. The exchange rate of the for int against currencies other than those of the member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA ) ,2 Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, is derived on the basis of a weighted basket of nine currencies;3 the weights are adjusted annually and reflect the cur- rency composition of Hungary's export receipts from the nonruble currency area. The value of the forint in terms of the basket is adjusted at irregular intervals, on the basis notably of the difference between the domestic and foreign rates of inflation; in the period between such adjustments, the external value of the forint is maintained w i th in margins of 1 per cent. Exchange rates are quoted by the National Bank of for 18 convertible cu r renc ies4 and Hungary the National Bank stands ready to effect transactions in any of these currencies. Buying and selling rates are set with a spread of one tenth of 1 per cent around the middle rate for each currency.5 New rates are quoted once a week (on Tuesday) and, in the case of the cur- rencies included in the basket, are based on the aver- age exchange rates between these currencies in interna- tional markets du r ing the previous five working days. Rates for other currencies are based on the quoted rate for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. The exchange rate of the for int against individual curren- cies may not be changed if the ad jus tment relative to the previous quotation would be less than one half of 1 per cent. The buying and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dollars on December 31, 1981 were Ft 34.3953 and Ft 34.4641, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Although there are no official forward quotations, the National Bank is prepared to buy currencies for- ward for exports and related transactions. Rates are set on a case-by-case basis and reflect forward quota- tions in international markets. 1 Hungary became a member of the In te rna t ional Monetary Fund on May 6, 1982. *The member countries of the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 'Au s t r ian schillings, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Each of these currencies accounts for at least 1 per cent of export receipts. 4 Australian dollars, Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds s ter l ing, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. In addition to the above, exchange rates for bankno tes and travelers checks are quoted for Finnish ma rkkaa, Greek drachmas, Yugoslav dinars, and Turkish liras. 5 The spread of 0.2 per cent between buy ing and selling rates applies to spot telegraphic transactions. For travelers checks and banknotes, a 6 per cent spread is maintained between buying and selling rates. The largest portion of Hungary's trade and financial settlements with the member countries of the CMEA is settled in transferable rubles and with Albania and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in clearing rubles. Official exchange rates for the transferable ruble and the clearing ruble are, in principle, quoted weekly by the Na t ional Bank, although these rates remain fixed for longer periods. At the end of Decem- ber 1981 the buy ing and selling rates for the fo r int against the transferable ruble were Ft 25.9740 and Ft 26.0260, respectively; the same rates applied to the clearing ruble. The National Bank also quotes rates of exchange for the fo r int against the currencies of mem- ber countries of the CMEA, Albania, and the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea. These rates are used for noncommercial settlements, e.g., in terna t ional travel, expenses of diplomatic representation, scholar- ships,6 and are based on mu l t i la teral agreements or, in some cases, on supplemental bilateral agreements. Administration of Control The authority for enforcement of foreign exchange regulations is vested in the Minister of Finance. Related func t ions are exercised by the Minister through the National Bank, except for those func t ions reserved for the Minister himself or delegated to other institutions, such as the Hungarian Foreign Trade Bank and the Central Corporation of Banking Companies. The National Bank may entrust other agencies, such as banking institutions and travel agencies, with the per- formance of specified tasks. The Central European In terna t ional Bank Ltd., established jo in t ly by the National Bank and Western European and Japanese interests, is exempt from Hungar ian fore ign exchange regulations and restrictions in respect of authorized activities. Foreign trade is a state monopoly. In practice, this means that commercial exports and imports may be effected only by economic enterprises authorized for this purpose. Organizations that are not authorized to conduct foreign trade channel their imports and exports through authorized organizations. At the end of December 1981 there were 163 enterprises autho- rized to engage in foreign trade, of which 32 were specialized foreign trade organizations; 7 the rest con- sisted of industrial enterprises, state farms, coopera- tives, and domestic trading concerns. Authorization to enter foreign trade may be either general or specific, referring in the latter case to the import and export activities of a producing enterprise for own account or to a single transaction or contract. 6 A commission of 3 per cent applies to purchases from tourists of banknotes in the currencies of member coun tr ies of the CMEA, Albania, and Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 7 In addition, there were n ine enterprises specializing in the repre- sentation of foreign enterprises. 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries w i th which Hun- gary has multilateral and bilateral payments agree- ments are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.8 If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agreements, settlement is made in a convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident juridical and physical persons may maintain convertible currency accounts at the National Bank, at certain designated offices of the National Sav- ings Bank, and at the Foreign Trade Bank; only rela- tively large amounts may be placed at the National Bank. The accounts carry tax-free interest, payable in the currency of deposit, and have a guarantee of repay- ment but no exchange rate guarantee. Nonresident deposits at the National Bank earn rates of interest set on a competitive basis with those in international mar- kets. Interest rates on nonresident deposits at the National Savings Bank at the end of December 1981 ranged from 6 per cent to 13.5 per cent, depending on the currency and the ma tu r i ty of the deposit. No authorization is required to open such accounts or to draw on them. Unless specifically exempted, payments in for in ts to nonresidents must be deposited in blocked for int accounts at certain designated offices of the Na t ional Savings Bank. Approval authority for withdrawals from blocked for int accounts has been delegated to the National Savings Bank for specified uses, e.g., living expenses while traveling in Hungary, medical expenses, and certain personal and family related expenses; approval may be obtained on the basis of a verbal declaration. Requests for approval for other uses must be referred to the National Bank. All requests for reasonable purposes are granted. In general, no inter- est is paid on these accounts. Residents may also open accounts at designated offices of the National Savings Bank either in foreign currencies or in forint convertible into foreign cur- rencies. Foreign exchange earned from creative, inven- tive, or artistic activity (including the royalties of authors, composers, and performing a r t is ts ), honoraria, prizes and awards, and specified fees may be deposited 8 At the end of December 1981 Hung a ry had bilateral paymen ts agreements with Albania, Brazil, People's Republic of China, Colom- bia, Ecuador, Finland, Iran, Mali, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Viet Nam. In addi- tion, Hunga ry has bilateral t rade agreements for cer ta in commodities with Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan; these agreements involve settlement in clearing U.S. dollars. Except for Albania, People's Republic of China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao Peo- ple's Democratic Republic, and Viet Nam, settlements under bilateral agreements were in clearing U.S. dollars. Settlements with the Peo- ple's Republic of China were in clearing Swiss francs, and with Albania, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Demo- cratic Republic, and Viet Nam in clearing rubles. The agreemennt with Mali has been inoperative. A t rade and payments agreement has also been negotiated, although not yet activated, w i th Democratic Kampuchea. 216 in these accounts. Convertible currency income or assets from these sources may be deposited in these accounts up to the extent of the first Ft 15,000 and 25 per cent of the excess a year (5 per cent in the case of inventors' fees and royalties to authors, composers and perform ing artists from foreign sales of products, books, or musical w o r k ). No limits apply to income from these sources earned in the currencies of coun- tries accounting in rubles. In addition, reasonable amounts of savings from per diem payments, wages and salaries derived from employment abroad, scholar- ships, and ar t is t ic performances may be deposited in these accounts. Separate accounts are kept for deposits made in convertible and CMEA currencies. No authorization is required for the use of accounts of residents in foreign currencies or in fo r int convertible in to foreign currencies. Withdrawals of convertible currency balances can be made in any convertible or CMEA currency, in Yugoslav dinars, or in forint. CMEA balances can only be w i thd rawn in a CMEA currency or in for in t. The deposits may be used for foreign travel or to purchase fore ign goods through the Consumex shops or directly f rom abroad. These accounts earn the same rate of interest as savings deposits in fo r in t, and the resulting proceeds are pay- able in foreign currency. Residents can also hold another category of accounts called the BC fore ign cu r rency accounts. Deposits in these accounts are l im i ted to t r an s f e rs f rom nonresidents to residents for the purpose of financing residents' expenses wh i le trave l ing abroad. Such deposits can be used in lieu of a nonresident's a f f idav it in applying for a visitor's travel visa (see be low ). Imports and Exports All imports and exports are subject to a licensing requ i remen t. Licenses are issued by the Licensing Department of the M in is try of Foreign Trade. No f u r t h er license f rom the foreign exchange au thor i ty is required for export or import and the performance or use of related services. Import licenses may be global or individual and, unless otherwise specified, are valid un t il the end of the calendar year for which they are issued. Global licenses allow the transaction to take place with any coun t ry for the goods and services specified in the license; such licenses are used pr imar i ly for bulk impor ts of items, such as fer t i l izer and steel products, which are spread over the course of the year. Indi- v idual licenses pe rm it transac t ions to take place only as specified. A fee equivalent to 2 per cent of the for int va lue of the licensed impo rt is levied. Imports are subject to import duties and related customs levies upon customs clearance. An advance import deposit scheme introduced in 1967 remains in place but has not been activated since 1971. Separately, payment by the importer of the fu ll domestic currency counter- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution part of import va lue is required by banks unde r tak ing to make fore ign exchange settlement for impo r ts. Such fo r int cover must be placed in a blocked noninterest- bearing account w i th the Na t ional Bank of Hungary. For imports of capital goods, the licensing authority will issue the impo rt license upon ver if ica t ion of the fo r int cover requ iremen t, which includes the value of the imports plus customs duties and related expenses. Apart f rom the import of consumer goods f rom the convertible cu r rency area, the l icens ing of impor ts is quasi-automatic and is used essentially for the purpose of ensuring that only authorized enterprises engage in in te rna t ional t rade; in case of need, the licensing system can also be used as an in s t rument of trade policy in the event of other coun tr ies res tr ic t ing imports from Hunga ry or for ba lance of paymen ts reasons. Imports of consumer goods from the convertible cur- rency area are subject to a global quota, the dollar value of which is published annua l ly in the Foreign Trade Gazette. Licenses against the quota are gran ted on an order-of-arr ival basis, and unused allocations are not au toma t ica l ly added to the quota for the next year. Licenses are generally applied for by the com- petent specialized foreign t r ad ing enterprises, and licenses in excess of the quota set initially may be issued in case of need. The value of the quota for 1981 was set at US$118.8 m i l l ion. Settlement in foreign exchange is authorized and effected upon receipt, and accord ing to the terms, of valid documents for settlement. Ex post ve r i f ica t ion of compliance with the terms of the license is made by the fo re ign exchange authority twice a year. Certain imports are prohibited for san i tary, security, and other noneconomic reasons. Hungary has been a member of the GATT since 1973. As part of the recently concluded Multilateral Trade Nego t ia t ions (M TN ), the weighted average tariff level applied on a most-favored-nation basis is to be reduced f rom 17.2 per cent in 1979 to 10.7 per cent in 1987. Impo r ts f rom developing coun tr ies enjoy preferential ta r i ff t rea tmen t. Du ty concessions or exemp- tions may be gran ted in specified cases. Exemptions from customs du t ies apply to imports from member countries of the CMEA, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, except for imports effected outside the f ramewo rk of the annual bilateral trade agreements w i th these countries. These imports, how- ever, are subject to special import turnover taxes aimed at equalizing the prices of such imports and prices in the domestic market. In general, re tu rn ing Hunga r ian travelers may import, free of customs du ty, goods for noncommercial use up to a value of Ft 5,000.9 Re tu rn ing residents may import, free of customs duty, goods up to a value equivalent to 40 per cent of the ir earn ings while 9 For group t r av el to non-CMEA coun tr ies, the value of the exemp- tion is reduced to Ft 2,000 a person. From Janua ry 1, 1982 the higher limit of Ft 5,000 applies to all travelers. HUNGARY stationed abroad for more than one year. Border trade is conducted on the basis of in te rgove rnmen tal agree- ments. Certain exports are prohibited for san i tary, security, and other noneconomic reasons. Indirect taxes on exports settled in convertible currencies are re funded at a rate equivalent to 10 per cent of value. In addition, an export subsidy applies to exports of agri- cu l tu ral products and processed foods settled in con- ver t ib le currencies, equivalent to 8 per cent of the value of the agricultural raw ma ter ial con tent of these exports. The two subsidies are calculated on the basis of the customs invoice value. Most trade w i th member coun tr ies of the CMEA, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, is conducted under bilateral agreements nego- tiated a n n u a l ly w i th in the f ramewo rk of five-year bilateral trade and paymen ts agreements. Settlements are effected in transferab le rubles th rough the In ter- na t ional Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC). Trade w i th in this f ramewo rk takes place at prices fixed in the annu al b i la teral agreements, on the basis of quotas representing delivery obligations, w i th deter- mined conditions of delivery. Subsidies may be paid to compensate expo r t ing enterprises for losses incurred if such exports are required for the fu l f i l lment of the agreements' obligations. All foreign assets and currencies must be declared and all foreign exchange assets must be surrendered, unless otherwise exempted. Declaration must be made w i th in eight days, but the length of time allowed for repa t r ia t ion depends on the na tu re of the case. The Foreign Trade Bank is generally exempt f rom the ob l iga t ion to surrender its foreign exchange assets to the Na t ional Bank. The Na t ional Savings Bank and the General Bank ing and Trust Company are exempt f rom the surrender requirement in certain cases; specific exemp t ions for ind iv idua ls are g ran ted in respect of g i f ts received while traveling and used to cover l iv ing and shopping expenses while abroad, as well as for wages and salaries earned while work ing abroad w i th official permission, or f rom scholarships received f rom non- residents. Receipts of foreign currency not exceeding Ft 400 a person are also generally exempted f rom the su r render requirement. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise trans- actions, inc lud ing t ranspo r ta t ion and advertising, are freely granted. Generally, other invisible transactions exceeding Ft 5,000 require general or ind iv idual autho- rization by either the M in is try of F inance or other competent au thor i ty. Foreign exchange for related paymen ts is made available automatically once the transac t ion has been authorized. Budgetary or social institutions may obtain general authorizations for transactions up to specified amoun ts in connection with their own activities. General autho- 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY rization up to specified amounts or proportions of turn- over is given to enterprises engaging in fore ign eco- nomic activities for the purpose of de f ray ing expenses other than those directly related to trade. Such autho- rizations relate to expenses for travel and other expenses, such as the ma in tenance of foreign representation and related personnel expenses. Compliance with the con- ditions of the general authorizations is reviewed on an ex post basis by the Ministry of Finance. Permission for travel to countries outside the CMEA area is granted only upon evidence of means of sup- port abroad. This requirement can be met in one of three ways: (1) if living expenses while abroad are covered by nonresidents, in which case an affidavit f rom the nonresident or the availability of sufficient funds in a resident BC account at Touring, Money Changing, Traveling and Shipping Co., Inc. (IBUSZ) is required; (2) if living expenses while abroad are covered f rom the resident's own funds in a convertible currency account or from a travel allowance obtained from the National Bank; or (3) if traveling with an authorized tourist group. Travelers under the first category are labeled "visitors," while travelers under the latter two categories are labeled "tourists." Permission for pri- vate travel may be obtained once a calendar year. Authorized tourist offices obtain annual foreign exchange allocations for the purpose of gran t ing allow- ances to tourist groups. Travel allowances from the National Bank are granted at the discretion of the Bank. Ind iv idual allowances of Ft 8,500 a passport holder plus Ft 1,500 a child for children of less than 14 years of age traveling under a parent's passport may be granted.10 Small amounts may also be granted on a case-by-case basis in excess of the basic allowance for personal reasons, e.g., if certain additional transport must be paid for abroad. In general, for "tourists" and "visitors," transportation expenses can be settled in forint for Hungarian carriers or carriers participating in a pooling agreement of which the domestic carrier is a member, or carriers which are part of the CMEA agreement; the same regulations apply to "visitors" when traveling in CMEA countries in Europe or to "tourists" when traveling in Europe by train. In the case of "tourists," a supplementary travel allowance may be obtained for travel by car to cover gasoline expenses up to a quota fixed for each country. "Visitors" may purchase foreign currencies up to Ft l,300.n For official and business travel, separate allowances are established by the Ministry of Finance for living expenses and accommodation. Limits for living expenses are applied strictly, while accommodation 10 Since Janua ry 1, 1982 residents are automatically entitled to an allowance from the Na t ional Bank every third year; the limit was raised to Ft 12,000 a passport holder and Ft 1,800 for a child of less than 14 years of age traveling under a parent's passport. 11 This amount was raised to Ft 1,600 on Janua ry 1, 1982. 218 allowances are applied more flexibly to reflect actual reasonable costs. Compliance with these limits is administered by the enterprises or ins t i tu t ions them- selves w i th in their allocated global foreign exchange quotas and is reviewed, on an ex post basis, by the Ministry of Finance. No m in imum spending or conversion requirement applies to nonresident travelers to Hungary, except in the case of visitors f rom Yugoslavia, who are required to convert the equivalent of Ft 760 a tr ip (Ft 380 for residents of the border area) when entering Hungary other than for business purposes. For travel between Hungary and Poland, travelers are required to have in their possession specific m in imum amounts of the currency of their coun try of destination. Nonresidents may take out of the coun try fore ign exchange assets and economic assets, in addition to their personal effects, without a license of the foreign exchange au tho r i ty, provided that they have filled out a "Certified Declaration on Brought-In Assets" on arrival. Non- residents may take out of the coun t ry souvenirs not exceeding the value of Ft 3,000. Residents may, without a license f rom the foreign exchange au thor i ty, br ing in to or take out of the coun- try domestic currency in an amount not exceeding Ft 200 a person, in denom ina t ions not exceeding Ft 50. Nonres iden ts may similarly br ing into or take out of the coun t ry Ft 100 a person, in coins only. Limits of F 50 a person apply to both residents and nonresidents, not to exceed Ft 200 a mon th, in the case of border- zone traffic. Special exchange regulations apply to travel to CMEA countries as follows: residents v is i t ing CMEA countries are entitled to an annual allowance of Ft 10,000.12 In practice, the limit is applied flexibly. Except for a portion of the travel allowance that may be taken out of the country in fo r in t, the va lue of which is set by mu l t i la teral agreement, and that may be converted in the coun try of travel, travelers must acquire travelers checks denom ina ted in the currency of the country of des t ina t ion. All conversions are effected at the rate of exchange quoted by the Na t ional Bank for the relevant currency. A 3 per cent commission is applied at the time of conversion. By multilateral agreement, no reconversion of forint acquired by CMEA tourists into their own national currency is allowed. Tourists f rom the convertible currency area can reconvert up to the equivalent of US$100, provided that the reconversion is not for more than half of the amount or ig ina l ly converted into fo r in t. No foreign exchange is made available for study abroad. Students' living expenses and tu i t ion fees while abroad must be covered by scholarships or financial suppo rt from nonresident relatives. Transfers abroad 12 This allowance was increased to Ft 15,000 f rom Janua ry 1, 1982. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by nonresident workers in Hunga ry, other than those employed in jo int ven tures, are de te rm ined on the basis of agreements between domestic and fore ign insti- tutions or enterprises. Nonresident employees of jo int ventures may t r an s f er abroad up to 50 per cent of their income. Capital All fore ign borrowing, excluding foreign borrowing on the basis of in te rgove rnmen tal agreemen ts, requires the approval of the Na t ional Bank. This approval is given only in exceptional circumstances, e.g., when credits on favo rab le terms are guaranteed by the government of the exporter or when bankers' accep- tances are provided on favorable terms. The require- ments of the economy for fore ign credit are met through direct foreign bo r row ing by the Na t ional Bank; the aim is to prevent Hunga r ian enterprises f rom c i rcumven t ing the regu la t ions of domestic credit policy by means of fore ign resources. Directives for ex tend ing short-term commercial credits in connection w i th foreign trade activities have been established jo in t ly by the M in is ter of Finance, the M in is ter of Foreign Trade, and the President of the Na t ional Bank. No license from the foreign exchange au tho r i ty is required for commercial credits in compliance w i th the directives. Medium-term and long-term credits for the export of investment goods may be extended by expor t ing enterprises with the authorization of the M in is ter of Foreign Trade. Nego- tiable export documents are discounted by the Na t ional Bank. These credits are ref inanced by the National Bank f rom its own resources. Foreign investment in the form of jo int ventures w i th Hungar ian enterprises may be established subject to the approval of the M in is ter of Finance. Foreign participation is l im i ted in general to 49 per cent; but a higher proportion may be allowed in the bank ing and service sectors. Machines and equipment, technical know-how, and patents may q u a l i fy as part of foreign investment. Tax benefits or exemptions may be granted by the M in is ter of Finance. Guaran tee is given for the transfer of the foreign investors' share of profits or, in the case of l iqu ida t ion of the jo int ven ture, of the invested capital. In add i t ion, a guarantee may be obtained f rom the Na t ional Bank, covering losses on invested assets as a result of state measures, or f rom Hungar ian bank ing institutions, covering the fu l f i l lment of obligations of the Hunga r ian partner. Foreign inves tment by resident economic organiza- tions, either by establishing subsidiaries or affiliates or by acqu ir ing an interest in a foreign enterprise, is sub- ject to the approval of the head of the competent sectoral au tho r i ty. In addition, approval is required f rom the M in is ter of Finance in his capacity as the foreign exchange authority. Except for gifts with a market value of up to Ft 400, HUNGARY the t ran s fer of economic assets abroad by residents is subject to licensing administered by the Na t ional Bank. G i f ts f rom nonresidents in excess of Ft 10,000 a person are also sub ject to licensing. Nonresidents are not generally allowed to acqu ire real estate, bu i ld ings, or other immovable proper ty in Hungary, except in the fo rm of inheritance. Ou tward capital t rans fe rs by resident physical persons are not generally approved. For cer ta in established categories, such as inhe r i tances, t rans fe rs may be authorized on the basis of agreemen ts and reciprocity w i th o ther countries, subject to the control of the Cen- tral Corporation of Bank ing Companies. Em igran ts may take out of the coun t ry up to Ft 30,000 an adu lt and Ft 15,000 a ch i ld, silver objects we igh ing at most 1 k i logram, and gold and jewelry considered to be personal effec ts. Other assets of emigrants, as well as the assets of nonres iden ts, are held either in the care of a person designated by the non res ident owner or, in the case of f inanc ial assets, in a nonres ident blocked fo r int account or blocked deposit. Gold All trade in gold and gold objects is subject to the au tho r i ty of the Na t ional Bank and in concurrence w i th the competent au tho r i ty in the case of indu s t r ial and artistic uses. All ingots and gold coins, except for one piece a person of every k i nd of gold coin m in ted pr ior to 1945, must be offered to the National Bank for sale. Except for transac t ions w i th enterprises specifically authorized to transact in gold, all trans- actions in gold are subject to l icens ing administered by the Na t ional Bank. Changes during 1981 February 19. The l im it on convertible currency earn ings f rom creative, inven t ive, and such other activities that could be f u l ly deposited in resident foreign exchange accounts was raised f rom Ft 10,000 up to Ft 15,000 (Announcement No. 405 /1981 of the Na t ional Bank of H u n g a r y ). February 23. The am o u nt of fore ign currency gen- erally exempted f rom the surrender requ irement was fixed at Ft 400 a person (Decree No. 7 /1981 of the M in is ter of F inance ). August 6. A regu la t ion was in troduced whereby r e tu rn ing Hung a r i ans could impo r t, du ty f ree, goods with a value of up to 40 per cent of income earned wh i le abroad for more than one year (Jo int Decree No. 22 /1981 of the M in is ter of F inance and M in is ter of Foreign T r ad e ). September 29. The Na t ional Bank of Hunga ry quoted for the first t ime a unified off ic ial ra te of exchange for each foreign currency (Decree No. 27 /1981 of the M in i s ter of F inance ). December 5. Hungar ian residents became entitled, with effect from Janua ry 1, 1982 (a) to an annual 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY allowance in the national currencies of the CMEA countries up to an amount equivalent to Ft 15,000 a person, for the purpose of traveling to these countries; and (b) to foreign exchange allowance in convertible foreign currencies up to an amount equivalent to Ft 12,000 a person (Ft 1,800 for a child of less than 14 years of age traveling under a parent's passport) every third year for traveling as tourists to European and certain other countries outside the CMEA coun- tries, and in an amount equivalent to Ft 1,600 a per- son (also for children traveling under a parent's pass- por t) for traveling as visitors (Announcement No. 4337 1981 of the National Bank of Hunga ry ). 220 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic Krona.1 There is no organized fore ign exchange market in Iceland and official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the principal t rad ing and reserve currency, are quoted by the Central Bank of Iceland. These rates are adjusted f rom time to time; on December 31, 1981 the buy ing and se l l ing rates were IKr 8.161 and IKr 8.185, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currenc ies2 are based on the off ic ial rates for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in in te rna t ional marke ts. The authorized banks are permitted to carry out exchange transac t ions among themselves and to engage in arb i trage in fore ign marke ts. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange except for a tax of 10 per cent levied on fo re ign exchange sales to residents for tourist travel. Administration of Control The M in is t ry of Commerce, a f t er consulting with the Central Bank, has the u l t ima te responsibility for matters concerning impo rt and export regulations and payments for invisibles. The Cen tral Bank is respon- sible for the regulation of fo re ign exchange transac t ions and of exchange control, inc lud ing cap i tal controls; it is also responsible for ensu r ing that all fore ign exchange due to residents is surrendered to authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as au thor ized. Two commercial banks, the Na t ional Bank of Iceland and the Fisheries Bank, are the only authorized banks. The authorized banks issue import and exchange licenses for the commodities subject to import control in cooperation w i th the M in is t ry of Commerce and the Central Bank. Export licenses are issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency As a general ru le, exchange receipts must be obtained in convertible currencies. In practice, settlements with countries whose currencies are pegged to the U.S. dollar and with many o ther countries are made in U.S. dollars; w i th coun tr ies of the fo rmer Sterling Area and some other countries, in s te r l ing; and with certain other countries, in their respective currencies. 1 On Janua ry 1, 1981 a new mone tary unit, called the k rona, was established, equivalent to 100 old k ronu r. Banknotes and coins in old kr6nur continued to be legal tender until June 30, 1981, and the Central Bank of Iceland will exchange new cu r rency for old un t il the end of 1982. 3 Austrian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident krona accoun ts: Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts. The opening of nonresident accounts requires ind iv idual approval. Foreign Accounts may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of foreign currency to au tho r ized banks and with authorized paymen ts due to nonresidents f rom residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used free ly for payments to residents and may, without a license, be converted into the currency of the coun t ry of residence of the account holder. These accounts are, in practice, seldom used, payments for in terna t ional transactions generally being made in U.S. dollars, sterling, or other convertible currencies.3 Special Accoun ts in k ronur or fore ign currency may be opened by agreement with an authorized bank. The most impor tant of these accounts are those of fore ign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely, up to certain limits, with approved payments f rom residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not included in the restricted list may be imported f ree ly without an import license f rom any coun try; some 90 per cent of total impor ts are liberalized. Some 30 commodities or groups of com- modities are included in the restricted list and may be subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. The pr inc ipal items involved are petroleum produc ts; the only other indus- tr ial goods on the list are brooms and brushes. Certain imports, inc lud ing fertilizers, tobacco, matches, and alcoholic beverages, are admitted only under state t rad ing arrangements. Fresh vegetables and potatoes are imported under the auspices of the Ag r icu l tu ral Production Board. None of these commodities, how- ever, is subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. For imports from all sources, when requiring a license, a fee of 1 per cent is charged as a license fee on the krona value of the import license when the license is issued; for pe tro leum products, however, this fee is 0.1 per cent. The commercial banks require cer ta in deposits for purposes of security in connection w i th certain import transactions. Importers of goods not requ ir ing licenses are not required to obtain a foreign exchange perm it prior to shipment f rom abroad, provided that the purchase is payable at sight. However, the goods will not be cleared by the customs unless payment has already been made, or the impor ter has arranged w i th an authorized 3 Residents who hold fore ign cu r rency which they are not requ i red to sell to authorized dealers may open Foreign Accounts with Icelandic banks. Such accounts, denominated in Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, may be credited w i th au tho r ized receipts in foreign currencies and may be debited for authorized pay- ments in foreign currencies. 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND bank for payment. An importer may either open a letter of credit or obtain a payment certificate, which enables him at any time to buy fore ign exchange to pay for the goods. For imports that require an indi- vidual license, foreign exchange is granted in accor- dance with the terms stipulated in the license. Importers may freely accept suppliers' credit for up to 3 mon ths from the date of arrival at an Icelandic port for listed goods corresponding to some 55 per cent of 1970 imports; the goods not listed are mainly bu i ld ing ma ter ia ls and nonessential goods ( inc lud ing motor vehicles for personal u s e ). Credit in excess of 3 months and not exceeding 12 months generally requires permission by a jo int committee of the Ministry of Commerce, the Central Bank, and the authorized banks. Approval is given only in exceptional circum- stances, e.g., in connection with the import of indus- trial raw materials for which the production process is lengthy. Foreign credit in excess of 12 months is subject to government au tho r iza t ion issued by the M in is try of Commerce. Motor vehicles and motorcycles are subject to a special excise tax of 35 per cent or 50 per cent ad valorem, depending on engine capacity; the special excise tax is 25 per cent for a limited number of taxi- cabs. Buses, heavy trucks, ambulances, tractors, and public service vehicles are exempt. Certain nonessential goods, whether imported or of domestic origin, are sub- ject to a temporary excise tax of 24 per cent or 30 per cent, ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government pay- ments (such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the foreign service, payments to international organizations, payments for postal, tele- graphic, and telephone services), for bank ing commis- sions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange transactions. Most other outgoing payments are licensed freely on the basis of bona fide documents. There is an exchange license fee of 1 per cent for all payments for invisibles. The basic allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$1,200 a person for each trip abroad (US$600 for each ch i ld ). A tax of 10 per cent is levied on foreign exchange sales for tourist travel. Applica- tions for foreign exchange for chartering of ships, ma jor repair of ships, repair of means of transport other than ships and a i rc ra f t, transactions and transfers in connec- tion with direct insurance, and insurance operations abroad are considered on their merits. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out IKr 700 in Icelandic banknotes and coin in denomina- tions not exceeding IKr 100. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses. The shipping documents must be lodged with an authorized bank. 222 Exchange receipts accruing f rom exports must be surrendered without undue delay. All fish products are subject to export levies, which are returned to the fishing industry through special funds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be sur- rendered w i thout undue delay. The owners of Icelandic ships and a i rc ra ft are, w i th the approval of the authorized banks, permitted to re ta in their foreign exchange receipts f rom f re igh t, passenger tickets, or other charges and to use them for operating purposes and for purchases of necessities. Icelandic insurance companies which reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned f rom prem iums and indemni- ties and to use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expenditures in the coun try where the foreign exchange was earned. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in Icelandic banknotes and coin, up to IKr 700 (in new k rona) or IKr 50,000 (in old k ronu r ), in denomina- tions not exceeding 100 new krona or 1,000 old kronur. Capital All investments by nonresidents in Iceland are sub- ject to ind iv idual approval. The participation by non- residents in Iceland's jo int stock companies may not exceed 49 per cent and is not allowed in the fishing indus t ry. Nonresident-owned foreign capital entering in the fo rm of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for these fund s, in which case the ir retransfer abroad is permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender fore ign exchange accruing to them on account of capital transac t ions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, inc lud ing loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applications for the con trac t ing of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits and approved only in excep- tional circumstances. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval, which is granted only in exceptional cases. However, direct investment abroad for the purpose of assisting the ma rke t ing of Icelandic products is nor- mally permitted. Portfolio investment abroad by resi- dents is prohibited. Ou tward t rans fe rs of inheritances, legacies, and emigrants' assets are considered on their merits. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported fund s; the t rans fer abroad of the proceeds from their sale requires authorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be registered, and all transactions concerning them are subject to licensing. The import and export of securities by residents require central bank approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of IKr 100 is legal tender but does not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, subject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and industrial users. However, citizens re tu rn ing to Iceland af ter residing abroad may freely br ing in any gold in their possession. Changes during 1981 January 1. The rate of equalization tax on all imported goods, the duties on which had been or were due to be dismantled under the terms of Iceland's agreements with the EFTA and the EC, was reduced from 6 per cent to 3 per cent. At the same time, a tax was introduced at the rate of 7 per cent on sugar and chocolate confectionery, and 30 per cent on malt beer and soft drinks and related materials. January 1. A new monetary unit, called the krona, equivalent to 100 old kronur, was established. Bank- ICELAND notes and coins in old kronur would continue to be legal tender until June 30, 1981; the Central Bank of Iceland would exchange new currency for old until the end of 1982. May 22. The max imum that resident and non- resident travelers may bring in or take out of Iceland in Icelandic banknotes and coin was fixed at IKr 700 (in new krona) or IKr 50,000 (in old k ronu r ), in denominations not exceeding 100 new krona, or 1,000 old kronur. May 29. The krona was devalued by 3.85 per cent on average against foreign currencies as measured by a trade-weighted exchange rate index. July 1. The basic allowance of foreign exchange for tourist travel was increased to the equivalent of US$1,200 a person a trip (US$600 a ch i ld ). August 26. The krona was devalued by 4.76 per cent on average against foreign currencies as measured by a trade-weighted exchange rate index. October 22. Imports of fishing vessels were subject to a license. November 11. The krona was devalued by 6.5 per cent on average against foreign currencies as measured by a trade-weighted exchange rate index. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of India is the Indian Rupee. Exchange rates are computed from the value of the rupee, which is determined on the basis of the relationship of the rupee to a weighted basket of currencies of India's major trading partners. India maintains the relationship of the rupee to the basket of currencies within margins of 5 per cent of the value adopted as the basis. Exchange rates of the rupee in terms of the pound sterling, the intervention currency, are accordingly fixed periodically by the Reserve Bank; at the end of December 1981 they were Rs 17.31 buying and Rs 17.39 selling, per <£ stg. 1. Exchange rates for spot and forward purchases of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and U.S. dollars are based on the latest available rates and trends in inter- national markets and are announced by the Reserve Bank every day; such rates may be changed at any time, if the need arises. Exchange rates for other cur- rencies are derived from the cross rate of the pound sterling with the Indian rupee. The Reserve Bank stands ready to purchase currencies of certain member coun- tries1 of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU ), deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, spot and forward, and to sell spot ACU currencies and pounds sterling. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers are permitted to maintain balances and positions in "permitted currencies." Permitted cur- rencies are divided into two groups, Group A consisting of 20 listed currencies2 and Group B consisting of any other foreign currency that is convertible into any of the permitted currencies in fairly active markets. Author- ized dealers are permitted to buy and sell spot any permitted currency f rom and to banks in any currency outside the Bilateral Group.3 Authorized dealers are also permitted to buy and sell forward any permitted currency against any other permitted currency. Forward purchase or sale of foreign currencies against rupees with foreign banks is prohibited. On December 31, 1981 market rates for telegraphic transfers on New York were US$11.00 buying (clean) and US$10.885 selling, per Rs 100, and the Reserve Bank's rates were US$10.99 buying spot and US$11.01 buying forward ( for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 months' de l ivery), per Rs 100. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover to author- ized dealers by purchases of sterling for delivery on any day during the first month, second month, etc., up to 9 months' delivery initially (and extendable up to 12 1 Bangladesh, Bu rma, Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 2 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Malay- sian r ingg i t, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 224 mon ths ), for purchases of U.S. dollars up to 12 months, and of deutsche mark and Japanese yen for delivery on any day during the first month, second month, and so on, up to the sixth month. In addition, the Export Credit and Guarantee Corporation Ltd. (ECGC) pro- vides protection against exchange fluctuation from the date of a bid up to 15 years a f ter the award of contract; exchange cover is offered in French francs, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. The Reserve Bank also purchases the currencies of the ACU member countries listed in footnote 1 f rom authorized dealers for delivery of up to six months on a monthly option basis. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government, in consultation w i th the Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers. All proposals for direct investments in India, with or without equity participation, are reviewed by the Foreign Investment Board. Under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, the general or specific approval of the Reserve Bank is necessary for the continuance of commercial, industrial, and trad ing activi- ties in India of companies incorporated abroad, or with more than 40 per cent nonresident interest, or for the establishment by them in India of any branch, office, or other place of business for carrying out any such activity. Import and export licenses are issued by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the Bilateral Group of coun- tries (see foo tno te 3) and the Ex ternal Group of coun- tries (all other coun t r ies ). Paymen ts to and f rom the Bilateral Group of coun tr ies must be settled in Indian rupees through the appropriate clearing account. Pay- ments to the External Group of countries may be made in rupees to the account of a resident of any country in the group or in any perm i t ted currency.4 Receipts from 4 All remittances by nationals of the People's Republic of China to any coun try outside India and all remittances to the People's Republic of China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or t rade purposes, were stopped with effect f rom November 3, 1962. Since the resump t ion of t rade between India and the People's Republic of China, remittances arising out of trade transactions are permitted in con fo rm i ty with exchange control regulations. All nontrade-related transac t ions with the People's Republic of China or nationals of the People's Republic of China con t inue to be prohibited, unless generally or specifically authorized. Authorized dealers are pe rm i t ted to open rupee accounts on the ir books in the names of the ir branches or correspondents in the People's Republic of China or Pak is tan with- out prior reference to the Reserve Bank, but should seek direction before opening such accounts in the names of branches of Pakistani or Chinese banks operating outside Pak is tan and the People's Republic of China, respectively. Authorized dealers may effect remit- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the External Group of countries may be obtained in rupees f rom the account of a bank situated in any country in the group or in any permitted currency. However, special rules may be applicable in respect of exports under lines of credit extended by the Government of India to the governments of certain fore ign countries. In addition, paymen ts to and receipts from certain member countries of the ACU (see footnote 1) in respect of cur- rent transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, na tural gas, and the ir produc ts) may, but need not, be effected in As ian Mone tary Un i ts through the ACU. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Indians (w i th the exception of certain accounts held by persons of Ind ian nationality who are or have been nonresidents) and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals resident in Bhu tan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Ind ian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organizations in Bhu tan and Nepal, are treated as resi- dent accounts.5 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treatment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in two groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescrip- tion of currency purposes, i.e., the accounts of banks in the Bilateral Group of countries and the accounts of banks in the External Group of countries. Accounts of banks in the External Group of countries may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes, with authorized trans- fers from the nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including b ank s ), provided that both the t rans fe ror and the transferee accounts are of the same country or countries in the External Group, and with proceeds from sales of permitted currencies. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including banks) and transfers to Nonresident (External) Accounts, provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of the same country or of countries in the External Group. The balances in the accounts of banks in countries in the External Group may be converted into any permitted currency. All other entries on bank accounts require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident accounts of individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; re funds of amounts previously debited or over- tances to Pakistan on behalf of private impo r te rs as in the case of imports f r om other countries; they also may e f fect certain types of personal rem i t tances in accordance w i th regu la t ions applicable to such remittances; rem i t tances for other purposes requ ire the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. "However, residents of Nepal obtain their foreign exchange require- ments from the Nepal Rastra Bank. INDIA charged; proceeds of remittances in appropriate foreign currency or transfers from appropriate nonresident banks' rupee accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); proceeds of foreign exchange ten- dered by the account holder during a temporary visit to India; proceeds f rom checks issued by the Life Insur- ance Corporation in respect of ma tu r i ty or death claims and the surrender value of policies held by nonresidents, provided that the Corporation certifies that prem iums had been received in India in an approved manner and that actuarial reserves were held in Ind ia; all legitimate dues accruing in India to the account holder, such as pensions, provident funds, gratuities, bonuses f rom a former employer, income tax refunds, etc.; and proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits during a mon th does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no ind iv id- ual credit is in excess of Rs 750. Where the nonresident account holder is an Ind ian na t iona l, credits on account of withdrawals or loans f rom, and ma tu r i ty proceeds of investments in, the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968, rentals f rom and sale proceeds of real estate owned by the account holder, and ma tu r i ty proceeds of all types of securities, as well as proceeds f rom the sale of securi- ties sold on stock exchanges in Ind ia and the repurchase price of un i ts issued by the Unit Trust of India are freely allowed. Ind ian emigrants may ma in ta in ord inary nonresident accounts, and an emigrant's assets in Ind ia that are in excess of the remittable amount must be credited to such accounts. Where the account holder is a foreign na t iona l, authorized dealers may credit the sale and ma tu r i ty proceeds of all types of securities and the repurchase price of units, provided that the securities were originally purchased either with funds held in the account or by remittance f rom abroad, and in the case of sale proceeds, that the sale was made on a stock exchange. Proceeds from the sale of shares owned by the nonresident account holder, whether he is an Ind ian or a foreign national, may be freely credited to his account if the shares were sold w i th the approval of the Reserve Bank. The special regulations covering f u n ds lodged in National Defense Rem i t tance Scheme Special Accounts were abolished in April 1979, and such accounts are now treated as ordinary non res ident accounts. Authorized dealers may debit the o rd ina ry rupee accounts of non- residents for (a) local disbursements other than for paymen ts toward investments in India and booking of in terna t ional passages, but transactions amoun t ing to Rs 10,000 or more must be reported to the Reserve Bank on an ex post basis, and ( b) payments toward investments in Unit Trust of India, National Plan or Savings Cer- tificates, and Securities of the Cen tral or State Govern- ment. Nonresident (External) Accounts may be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Ind ian nation- ality or origin resident outside India. Such accounts may also be opened for eligible persons dur ing tempo- rary visits to India against the tender of foreign currency 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA travelers checks, notes, or coin. They may be credited with new funds remitted through banking channels f rom the country of residence of the account holder or f rom any country in the External Group. They may also be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency travelers checks, personal checks, and draf ts in the name of the account holder, as well as foreign currency notes and coin tendered by the account holder during his stay in India, and also with income on authorized investments. The transfer of funds from other Nonresident (Ex terna l) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts of the same account holder is also allowed. The accounts may be debited for disbursements in India and for t rans fe rs abroad. Debits on account for payment of fares to and from India for the account holder and his dependents, for investment in government securities and un i ts of the Unit Trust of India, and transfers to other Nonresident (Ex terna l) Accounts of the same account holder are freely allowed. Balances can also be used for purchases of foreign currency or rupee travelers checks or travelers letters of credit for the use of the account holder and his family and dependents, but transfers of funds f rom an individual account to a simi- lar account of another person are ordinarily not permis- sible. Investments in the shares of Indian companies or in partnership firms, etc., or in immovable property can be made with the specific approval of the Reserve Bank. Interest on deposits in such accounts is exempt from income tax and is transferable. The balances held in such accounts are exempt f rom wealth tax. Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts denomi- nated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Indian nation- ality or origin who are resident in the External Group of countries. These accounts may be credited with amounts received through normal banking channels, including interest, which is free of income tax and wealth tax. Balances may be repatriated at any time in the currency of denomination, without reference to the Reserve Bank. Balances can also be used for the pur- poses for which debits to Nonresident (External) Accounts are allowed. Imports and Import Payments The Imports and Exports (Control) Act of 1947 empowers the Central Government to prohibit, restrict, or otherwise control imports. Under this Act, the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 was issued, which specified items subject to controls. Imports f rom Nami- bia (South West A f r ica) and South Africa are pro- hibited. There are two types of individual licenses: General Currency Area Licenses and Specific Licenses (used for imports f rom specified countries). The Import Policy for fiscal year 1981/82, which came into effect on April 3, 1981, with its subsequent amendments, contains the regulations covering imports. Imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts 226 for industry are classified into three categories: (1) banned, (2) restricted, and (3) canalized. All items not included on these lists are freely available under Open General License (OGL ). Licenses to indus try are issued automatically on the basis of annual requirements as determined by past consumption. Provided that he has exported at least 10 per cent of his production of speci- fied products in either of the two previous years, an actual user ( indus tr ia l) holding an automatic license may import an additional 10 per cent of the va lue of such a license, in the form of such items as are needed for the manu fac tu r ing process. The ac tual user ( indu s t r ia l) may also import, w i th in the value of the license, banned items up to a value of Rs 50,000 for each item, provided that the total of all items imported does not exceed 10 per cent of the value of the license. Supplementary licenses may be obtained in case of need, even for the import of banned items. All licenses to industry are issued against free foreign exchange. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods. Specified capital goods are banned, while other listed goods may be imported under Open General License, subject to certain conditions. For other capital goods, licenses are granted subject to prescribed procedure. For 13 industries and projects, capital goods may be imported on the basis of global tenders, irrespec- tive of whether the goods are manu fac tu red in India or not. Under the Import Rep len ishment Scheme (REP ), licenses are issued to merchant exporters, manu fac tu rer exporters, and export houses and t rad ing houses and are freely transferab le. Registered exporters are permitted to obtain REP licenses against export of specified products up to a certain proportion of the va lue of exports, and these licenses are valid even for the impor ta t ion of certain banned items necessary for the production of the par- ticular export product. Subject to a value limit on an ind iv idual item, manufac turer exporters are allowed to import banned items up to 20 per cent of the value of the REP license. In addition, the REP licenses may be utilized for direct imports of canalized items to the extent the license permits, and also for imports of capital goods, subject to necessary clearances. Small-scale units are given especially liberal treatment in respect of import licenses, and consortia of small-scale industries may form export houses. Non indus tr ial actual users, such as research and development laboratories, scientific or higher educational institutions, and hospitals, are eligible to import their requirements of technical and profes- sional equipment, raw materials, components, spare parts, or other items (but not consumer goods) under Open General License. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presenta- tion of the exchange control copy of the license and the shipping documents. License holders may make pay- ments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight d ra f ts. Use of suppliers' credit and other long- term import credit is subject to prior approval. Ad- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution vance rem i t tances before shipping documents can be submitted are not norma l ly allowed, but in special cases, e.g., imports of machinery and capital goods where deposits have to be made with overseas manu fac tu re rs, the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for advance payment for a pa rt of the value of the import. The import of certain commodities, including food- grains, certain oils and fa ts, a number of pharmaceutical products, na tural rubber, raw cotton, raw jute, cement, cashew nu ts, most fertilizers, most non fe r rous metals, and certain categories of steel, is reserved for the Gov- ernment or state trad ing enterprises (i.e., "canalized"), the most impor tant of which are the State Trading Corporation (STC), the Ju te Corporation of India, the Food Corporation of India, the Steel Authority of India, Ltd. (SAIL), the State Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals Corporation of India (CPC ), and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation. Bulk imports of certain raw materials that are not reserved for the public sector may also be arranged by state agencies, under the Industrial Raw Materials Assistance Center ( IRMAC) fac i l i ty. In add i t ion to any applicable import du ty, imports are subject to an auxiliary duty of 5, 15, or 20 per cent ad valorem. Among the exemptions are foodgra ins, raw cotton, tallow, and books. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, ma in ly for expenses incidental to trade transactions and t rans fe rs of recurr ing contractual obli- gations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to foreign nationals not permanently resident in India are to be paid only in foreign currency; pay- ment in rupees may be made only on annuities issued against payment from recognized superannuation or pension fund s; Ind ian residents are prohibited f rom taking out life insurance policies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising f rom the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of fore ign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Remittances of dividends by Ind ian com- panies to their nonresident shareholders do not require prior Reserve Bank approval, provided that certain con- ditions are met. Otherwise, there are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to bene- ficiaries permanently resident outside India, provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. However, remittances of pensions and divi- dends and interest on shares, securities, and deposits to Indian nationals who were granted exchange facilities for emigration on or after January 1, 1963 but before April 30, 1968 are subject to an overall limit of Rs 20,000 a year. For emigrants granted lump-sum exchange facilities af ter April 30, 1968 on grounds of INDIA hardship, no remittance of income is allowed. Foreign nationals temporarily resident in India on account of their business, profession, or employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance prem iums, for the sup- port of their families, and for other expenses. Autho- rized dealers may allow such rem i t tances by fore ign nationals, other than nationals of the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, and South Afr ica, to the extent of 50 per cent of net income, subject to a max imum of Rs 2,500 a month. Requests for the remittance of larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Under the Foreign Travel Scheme (FTS) of 1970, residents are permitted to travel abroad without "P" form forma l i t ies to all destinations, provided they have not traveled abroad under this scheme since the begin- n ing of the previous calendar year. For de term ina t ion of eligibility, all foreign travel other than under the For- eign Travel Scheme is disregarded. Residents are en t i t led to fore ign exchange up to US$500 or its equ iva lent on a round-trip t icke t, irrespective of the carrier by which they travel. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may book passages under the Foreign Travel Scheme for any person a f ter sa t is fy ing themselves about the in tend ing traveler's e l ig ib i l i ty; fore ign exchange for such persons may be released by any authorized dealer af ter similar ver if ica t ion. Travel to Bangladesh, Bu rma, Malaysia, Maldives, Mau r i t ius, Pakistan, Seychelles, and Sri Lanka is governed by the Neighborhood Travel Scheme, under which residents of India visiting neighboring countries are eligible for an exchange allowance of US$250 a person every two calendar years; th is a r rangement can- not be combined with the existing Foreign Travel Scheme. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may also book passages for persons going abroad with or w i thout an allocation of fore ign exchange (other than under the above schemes ), subject only to completion of a "P" form in cases where the passage or fa re is paid in rupees in Ind ia. Certain categories of passengers, inc lud ing persons traveling between India and Nepal by Ind ian and Nepalese airlines, deck-class passengers, and employees of airlines and steamship companies traveling abroad on business for th e ir company in one of its carriers are not required to complete a "P" form. Fares for nonresidents' jou r- neys to and f rom India may be settled, w i thout Reserve Bank approval, in rupees debited to Nonresident (Exter- n a l) Accounts. The export of Ind ian currency notes and coin, except to Nepal, is in general prohibited. The export to Nepal of Ind ian currency notes in denom ina t ions of Rs 100 or higher is also prohibited. However, deck-class pas- sengers to Bu rma, Malaysia, Singapore, Gu lf ports, and East Africa, and passengers to Bangladesh, Pakistan, or Sri Lanka, may take with them Rs 20 a person at any one 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA time in Indian notes and coin. Exchange bureaus and authorized money changers are permitted to sell fore ign currency notes and coin up to the equivalent of Rs 100 to travelers proceeding to Bangladesh and up to Rs 200 to those proceeding to other countries except Bhutan and Nepal. Nonresidents may take out the foreign cur- rency that they brought in (and declared on entry if it exceeded US$1,000), less the amounts sold to autho- rized dealers and authorized money changers in India. Unspent rupee amounts may be reconverted into foreign currency and taken out. There is a foreign exchange allowance of up to US$750 a person for settling in and for purchase of initial equipment by students going to foreign universities with full bursaries. A foreign travel tax at a rate of Rs 100 a passenger is levied on all passengers embarking on an international journey to any destination other than A fghan is tan, Bhutan, Burma, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Passengers to these destinations are required to pay tax at a rate of Rs 50 a passenger. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for some items, and most commodities may be exported without a license. Most of the controlled commodities are licensed freely to all shippers, a few may be exported through estab- lished shippers, and some commodities are subject to export quotas.6 Exports to Namibia (South West A f r ica) and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the fu ll export proceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the pre- scription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the proceeds of exports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or he is a foreign national or a foreign person of Indian origin, or he (or his foreign-born w ife) is not permanently resident in India, and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Export proceeds must be surrendered within six months of shipment or, if the goods are sold to Afghanistan or Pakistan, within three months of ship- ment. Exporters are required to obtain permission from the Reserve Bank of India through authorized dealers in the event of nonrealization of export value within the prescribed period. The Reserve Bank of India also administers a scheme under which export of engineering goods (capital goods and consumer durables) is allowed under deferred credit arrangements, permitting realiza- tion of export value in installments over a period exceeding six months. Some exports, including coffee, groundnuts, chrom- ium ore, and iron ore, are subject to export duties. Some others, including mica, tobacco, and handwoven 6 The export of certain commodities, including sugar, raw jute, and several categories of steel, is reserved for the state trading enterprises. 228 woolen carpets, are subject to m in imum prices. A substantial number of exports, ma in ly new manufac- tures such as engineering goods, receive cash compen- satory support, import du ty drawbacks, and exemptions. An Import Replenishment Scheme provides for imports of specified products against exports of certain products. Bona fide foreign tourists can f ree ly take out of India articles purchased with fore ign exchange or w i th rupees acquired against foreign exchange up to a value of Rs 20,000 a person; silverware of up to Rs 200 a person may also be exported on the same basis, subject to a limit of Rs 400 a fam i ly w i th in the overall limit of Rs 20,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered. There are schemes for the pr ior i ty allotment of motor scooters, agricultural tractors, and cement against certain inward remittances of fore ign exchange. The import of Indian currency notes and coin is, in general, prohibited. How- ever, deck-class passengers from Burma, Malaysia, Singa- pore, Gulf ports, and East A f r ica, and travelers from Pakistan and Sri Lanka, may import into India Rs 20 a person against presen ta t ion of evidence that they previ- ously had exported this amount f rom India. Travelers from Bu rma, other than deck-class passengers, may bring in Ind ian currency notes up to Rs 50 an adult and Rs 25 a child between the ages of 12 and 18 years. Travelers f rom Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought in to Ind ia without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of foreign notes, coin, and travelers checks exceeds US$1,000 or its equivalent. Foreign currency notes may be sold to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to any authorized money changer. Capital There are no restrictions on receipt of inward remit- tances f rom any country through authorized dealers in India; subsequent utilization of such f u n ds in India is, however, subject to approval in most cases. Foreign investments, once admitted, are eligible for the same t rea tment that Ind ian enterprises receive. Banks in Ind ia may borrow free ly f rom their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are utilized for the purchase of rupees from the Reserve Bank or in the in te rbank market to finance their normal business operations in India; repayment of such borrowings requires the prior approval of the Reserve Bank and may be effected only when the debtor bank has no ou ts tand ing borrowings in India f rom the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Foreign borrowing by nonbank Ind ian companies is subject to Reserve Bank approval; only in exceptional cases is permission granted for any loan which has not been obtained as an off ic ial or officially guaranteed credit by the Central Government. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Reserve Bank permission is required for in i t ia t ing, expanding, or continuing in India any business activity or holding or acquiring shares of any company carrying on a trading, commercial, or industrial activity in India, by nonresidents, noncitizens, nonbank companies not incorporated under Ind ian law, and Indian companies with over 40 per cent nonresident interest.7 The Reserve Bank will allow the latter companies to continue their activities with a nonresident equ i ty of more than 40 per cent and up to 74 per cent, depending on the extent to which the company is engaged in "core" indus try or export-oriented production, or in manu fac tu r ing activ- ities that require sophisticated technology. Foreign companies can retain a 51 per cent nonresident equity as long as their combined core sector production, appli- cation of sophisticated technology, and export produc- tion account for not less than 60 per cent of their annual turnover, with a m in imum of 10 per cent export per- formance within a period not exceeding two years from the date of approval by the Reserve Bank. If their combined core sector production, application of sophis- ticated technology, and export production account for not less than 75 per cent of their annual turnover, for- eign companies can retain 74 per cent nonresident ownership. Companies with exports exceeding 40 per cent of the total ex-factory cost of annual production are allowed to operate with 51 per cent nonresident equity, and those with export performance exceeding 60 per cent of total ex-factory cost of annual production are eligible to retain foreign equity up to 74 per cent. Com- panies that export 100 per cent of production may be wholly owned by nonresidents. Companies that are engaged predominantly in trading activities, or that do not meet the other criteria listed above, are required to reduce their foreign shareholding to 40 per cent within a specified period, or change their activities to meet the above criteria. Branches of foreign companies other than airlines, shipping companies, and liaison offices must in all cases become Indian companies. All companies are subject to "dilution" formulas, as follows: companies with foreign direct holdings exceed- ing 75 per cent must raise 40 per cent of the estimated cost of expansion through additional equity capital issued to Indians; for companies with foreign holdings above 60 per cent but below 75 per cent and above 51 per cent but below 60 per cent, the corresponding propor- 7 Persons of Ind ian na t iona l i ty or origin who are resident abroad may invest freely in any public or private limited company, in any partnership or proprietorship concern, and in industrial, manu fac tu r ing, or trade ac t iv i ty (except where the proposed investment is of an unde- sirable n a t u r e ), provided that the funds required are either remitted f rom abroad th rough normal banking channels or are drawn f rom their Nonresident Accounts, and provided that an unde r tak ing is given that repatriation of the capital invested or the profits and dividends arising the re f rom will not be requested. Nonresident Indians and per- sons of Indian origin residing abroad can also invest up to 20 per cent of the new equ i ty capital issued by new companies setting up permitted industrial projects and up to 74 per cent of new investments, including expansion of existing industrial undertakings in specified priority indus- tries, and can freely repatriate such investment and income therefrom after deduction of applicable Indian taxes. INDIA tions are 33.3 per cent and 25 per cent, respectively. No new foreign equity is permitted in companies engaged predominantly in internal trad ing and com- mercial activities. Without the permission of the Reserve Bank, residents are prohibited from lending to, or depositing money with, a nonbank firm or company in which the nonresident interest is more than 40 per cent. Noncitizens, non-Indian firms, and nonbank Indian firms with more than 40 per cent foreign participation must obtain Reserve Bank permission in order to acquire, hold, transfer, or dispose of immovable prop- erty within India (except when a lease for a period of not more than five years is involved). The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is also required for all transfers of shares of Indian companies by nonresidents or foreign nationals to other persons, whether resident or nonresident. Residents are prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, from engaging in any transaction which increases beyond 49 per cent the nonresident share of a business outside India in which the nonresident interest is 49 per cent or less, and they are also prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, from holding, acquiring, transferring, or disposing of immovable prop- erty outside India (except where a lease of not more than five years is involved). Residents also require Reserve Bank approval to transfer any interest in a business in India to a nonresident, a noncitizen, a non- bank company not incorporated under Indian law, or an Indian company with over 40 per cent foreign par- ticipation. Furthermore, Reserve Bank approval is required for residents exporting Ind ian securities and transferr ing Indian securities to nonresidents. Residents are prohibited —except with central government or Reserve Bank permission —from guaranteeing the obli- gation of a nonresident or the obligation of a resident in favor of a nonresident, and are also prohibited, except w i th central government permission, f rom associating with or participating in any business concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects a f ter Janua ry 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original investment, may be repatri- ated at any time. However, Reserve Bank approval must be obtained before effecting a sale which involves repatriation of assets. The proceeds of approved sales are allowed to be remitted in suitable installments, not exceeding four. The proceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are kept in a nonresident account. Ind ian nationals are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In cases of exceptional hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to the equivalent of Rs 100,000 in one lump sum at the time of emigration; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income is kept in a nonresident account and no fur ther remittances, including pensions, if any, are allowed. Foreign nationals who are tempo- 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA rarily resident in India (other than nationals of the Peo- ple's Republic of China, Pakistan, and South A f r ica) are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own countries the proceeds from the sale of their investments, subject to a limit of Rs 100,000 for each fam i ly at the time of retirement and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 50,000; in addi- tion, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Indian or foreign securities. The acquisition, sale, trans- fer, export, or other disposal of foreign securities requires approval. Residents (other than foreign nation- als temporarily but not permanently resident in India and their foreign-born wives also not permanently resi- dent in Ind ia) who are private persons are not normally permitted to purchase securities or personal real estate outside India. Indian nationals, and persons of Indian origin holding fore ign passports, resident abroad and wishing to return to India to take up employment or to set up small indus- trial units are upon application exempted, for a period of five years f rom the date of their return to India, f rom the requirement that any foreign currency balances in their possession be surrendered within three months of arrival. As an alternative to holding such balances in the form of foreign currency, the holder may use the funds for the import of machinery, raw materials, and com- ponents, subject to an import license, or, in small amounts, for personal requirements. Furthermore, they have the option of surrendering their balances immedi- ately, with the right to reacquire them within five years should they decide to re turn to a foreign country. Bal- ances held in Nonresident (Ex terna l) Accounts or For- eign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts in India by such persons on the date of their return to India are also eligible for similar retransfer or reconversion facilities. These various facilities are not available in respect of earnings arising from employment abroad with any Indian-owned organization. Foreign nationals in India not permanently residing there are permitted to main- tain foreign currency accounts; this permission is also extended to foreign nationals of Indian origin who have come to Ind ia for employment of a specified duration or for an assignment not exceeding three years. Under the Returning Indians Foreign Exchange Entitlement Scheme, persons of Indian nationality or origin returning to India for permanent residence on or after November 1, 1977 are entitled to avail them- selves of foreign exchange to the extent of 25 per cent of the amount they brought in on transfer of resi- dence, plus the balance held in their Nonresident (Ex terna l) Accounts and Foreign Currency (Nonresi- den t) Accounts for certain specified purposes for which exchange is normally not freely available. Persons eligible under the scheme may make use of the exchange facility within a period of ten years from the date of return of the head of the family. 230 Gold A detailed control is exercised over the acquisition, possession, manufac ture, and disposal of gold through the Administration of Gold (Control) Act. There is a ban on private possession of primary gold. Although there is no ban on possession of finished articles of gold ( inc lud ing coin) previously declared, there is restriction on their manufac ture and acquisition. There is no restriction on the acquisition, disposal, or possession of gold ornaments, except that holdings of such ornaments (wh ich may be of any pu r i ty) above specified limits must be declared. The consumption of gold by indus- trial users is regulated through permits and authoriza- tions. Control is exercised over dealers and goldsmiths through a system of licensing. Gold ref in ing is under state management. The Government Mint is licensed to accept tenders of gold for purposes of refining and conversion into standard gold bars. Forward t rad ing in gold or silver is prohibited; exports of silver bullion, sheets, and plates are banned, and exports of products of silver are subject to quota restrictions. With the exception of jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler, imports of gold in any fo rm by residents other than the monetary authorities require special authorization from the Reserve Bank and are not normally permitted; in certain cases, however, jewelers are permitted to manu fac tu re gold jewelry in bond from imported gold, for export purposes only. Special permission for imports of gold and silver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no for- eign exchange transaction is involved or the metals are needed for a par t icu lar purpose. Special permission is also granted in cases where the gold or silver is imported for processing and re-export, provided that payment for the import will not be required, that the en t ire quan t i ty of metal imported will be re-exported in the form of jewelry, and that the value added will be repatriated to India in foreign exchange through an authorized dealer. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry produced in India for export with a gold value not exceeding 10 per cent of total value, and jewelry con- s t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler, subject to certain monetary limits, are prohibited, unless the export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties. Under the gold jewelry export scheme, net export of gold from India is not permitted, and the export of gold jewelry is permitted only if the value added is 15 per cent or more; export under the scheme to the Bilateral Group of countries is not permitted. Changes during 1981 January 1. The trade and payments agreement be- tween India and Romania was renewed for a period of five years. Payments for transactions between the two countries would continue to be made in nonconvertible Indian rupees. January 1. The trade and payments agreement be- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tween India and Poland was renewed for a period of five years. Payments for transactions between the two countries would continue to be settled in nonconvertible Indian rupees. January 1. The trade and paymen ts agreement be- tween India and the German Democratic Republic (GDR) was renewed for a period up to December 31, 1985. Payments for transactions between the two countries would continue to be effected in nonconvertible Indian rupees. (The Deutsche Aussenhandelsbank A.G. Berlin, acting on behalf of the Government of the German Democratic Republic, would ma in ta in with the Reserve Bank of India a "Central Clearing Account GDR-India" and also o ther accounts in India with banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange.) January 1. Exports of ins tant coffee were exempted from export duty. January 6. Export duties were reduced on leather. January 9. Export du t ies were increased on ground- nuts. February 3. Au thor iza t ion was granted (subject to ex post s c ru t iny) for exporters benefiting under the Blanket Permit f a c i l i ty and exporting goods such as mach inery under project exports to make remittances through b lanket exchange permits, to meet miscellane- ous unforeseen expenses such as consultation charges, demurrage claims, and inland t ranspo r ta t ion expenses in connection w i th exports f rom India. February 12. Authorized dealers were allowed to open rupee accounts on their books in the names of their branches or correspondents in Pakistan and the People's Republic of China without prior reference to the Reserve Bank. Such accounts should be used to finance permissible transactions in terms of the provisions contained in the Exchange Control Manual and other relevant instructions by the Reserve Bank. Authorized dealers must, however, seek directions from the Reserve Bank before opening accounts in the names of branches of Pakistani and Chinese banks operating outside Paki- stan and the People's Republic of China, respectively. March 3. Authorized dealers were required to obtain approval of the Reserve Bank before opening letters of credit for f inanc ing purchases of goods abroad for on-sale abroad. To expedite business, authorized dealers were permitted to approve such transactions subject to specified conditions. March 12. The Reserve Bank raised from US$500 to US$750 a person the limit on exchange allowance for settling in and for initial equipment for students going to foreign universities with fu ll bursaries. March 16. In a simplification of the terms guiding transactions relating to the ordinary rupee accounts of nonresidents, the following changes were introduced: (a) local disbursements other than for payments toward investments in India and booking of international passages may be freely made, except that amounts up to Rs 10,000 or more must be reported to the Reserve Bank on an ex post basis; and (b) payments toward INDIA investments in Unit Trust of India, National Plan or Savings Certificates, and Securities of the Central or State Government may be freely made. April 2. It was announced tha t, effective May 1, 1981, all banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange could release foreign exchange quotas to eligible travel- ers und er the Foreign Travel Scheme. (Previously, only 14 nationalized banks and the State Bank of India were perm i t ted to release exchange up to US$500 under the Foreign Travel Scheme.) The fa re ceilings hitherto applicable to passengers booked under the scheme had also been removed. April 3. The fo l low ing changes were introduced in export and import regu la t ions: (a) a total of 165 d ifferent items were eliminated f rom the list of products importable und er Open General License (OGL ), while 63 other items were added to the list; (b) issuance of supplementary import licenses was made subject to closer scrutiny and limited to items that could not be obtained locally or imported under automatic licenses; (c) the special fac i l i ty for impor ta t ion under the OGL accorded to the Oil and N a t u r al Gas Commission and Oil India was extended to Coal Ind ia and Neyveli Lignite Corporation; (d) the special fac i l i ty for OGL imports, available for raw materials, components, and spares, was extended to capital goods imported by unde r tak ings administered by government departments and to the railways, on the basis of foreign exchange released by the Government; (e) the following items were added to the list of "canalized" impor ts: aluminum rods, writing and p r in t ing paper, all edible and nonedible oils and f a t ty acids, while the following were eliminated from the list: cinematographic films, brass and copper scrap, tinplate waste, acrylic fiber and polyester filament ya rn (poy ); (f) the res tra in ts on imports of spares, accessories, and toolings associated w i th capital goods imports under OGL were eased to permit imports of such items up to 5 per cent of the value of the main equ ipmen t; (g) add i t ional concessions were announced for export houses qua l ify ing as trad ing houses, including entitlement to additional licenses for the impor ta t ion of restricted, banned, or canalized items up to specified limits and foreign exchange for export promotion purposes overseas; (h) to meet the needs of the small and cottage industries, export houses and small- indus t ry corporations under the state governments were allowed to import certain items of scrap metal under the OGL for distribution among small and cottage indus tr ies; (i) as a means of curtailing imports of items locally available, issuance of additional import licenses to export houses was tightened, with the exception of export houses which are small units or consortia thereof; (j) in a simplification of the system of the Advance Licensing Scheme for duty-exempt im- ports by exporters, permission was granted for specified exporters to apply for such licenses on the basis of predetermined input-output coefficients without the usual prior certification or recommendations; permission 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA transferred was also granted for bulk advance licenses to be issued to established exporters of manu fac tu res to import on the basis of a phased export program; (k) the eligibility list for imports of banned or restricted items through REP licenses was extended to include manufacturers exporting through others; and (1) in a modification of the system of duty-free imports against REP licenses, the actual user condition was abolished, and exports of hand-knitted woolen carpets were added to the three small indus try items previously eligible under the system. April 27. Importation of raw cashew nuts was decanalized and brought under OGL. April 29. Certain steel products were from OGL to the restricted list. May 23. The limit on the value of articles pur- chased with foreign exchange or with rupees acquired by sale of foreign exchange, which bona fide foreign tourists can freely take out of India, was raised f rom Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000 a person; silverware of up to RS 200 a person may also be exported on the same basis subject to a limit of Rs 400 a family within the aforesaid overall limit of Rs 20,000. The Reserve Bank will not accept applications f rom tourists to take out silver articles in excess of the value permitted under the Baggage Rules. June 1. The following changes were introduced in the export regulations: (a) effective June 4, the guiding regulations for exports of products with a silver content were liberalized (with the exception of silver salts, chemicals, and compounds ); and (b) 47 items were added to the list of items eligible for duty drawback on exports, while the du ty drawbacks were increased for several products. June 2. A scheme in operation since Ocober 14, 1980 was extended until March 31, 1982, under which the Handicrafts and Handlooms Export Corporation of India Limited produces gold jewelry for export against gold supplied by the foreign buyer. June 5. The following changes were introduced in the import regulations: (a) suppliers of capital goods, raw materials, components, and spare parts to fully export-oriented units were made eligible for import replenishment licenses; (b) four items were trans- ferred from the capital goods (CG) licensing pro- cedure to OGL; (c) printing machines were trans- ferred from the OGL to the CG licensing system; (d) components of insulators were transferred from OGL to the restricted list; and (d) certain veterinary life-saving drugs were included in the OGL list of imports. July 7. As part of the import policy for fiscal year 1981/82 four items were transferred from the restricted list to the banned list, and two other items were banned from importation by export houses against their addi- tional licenses. July 7. The facility of capital goods imports on OGL, previously available to four public sector cor- porations, was extended to six other public sector corporations in the coal sector. 232 July 27. The following changes were introduced in the import regulations: (a) 16 millimeter Xenon or arc projectors were t rans fe r red from CG licensing procedure to OGL; (b) benemyl was t rans fe r red from OGL to the restricted list; and (c) skeifs and semi- automatic deps and tangs were included in the OGL list for registered exporters of gems and jewelry. July 28. The Reserve Bank advised its offices to apply stricter scrutiny concerning the release of for- eign exchange for foreign business travel other than export promotion. August 14. Certain seamless carbon steel tubes and pipes were transferred from the list of restricted items to the banned list. August 19. Ind ia concluded a credit agreement with Uganda (re troac t ive to May 5, 1981) under which India provided a line of credit for Rs 2.5 crores for imports of specified commodities f rom Ind ia by Uganda; the terminal date for d raw ings under the line of credit was September 30, 1982. September 4. Impo r ta t ion of pig iron was canalized. September 22. It was announced that with effect f rom October 1, 1981, the Reserve Bank would change its exchange rate quo ta t ions f rom a "ready" or "cash" basis to a "spot" basis (de l ivery a f t er two business d a y s ); however, in order to help au thor ized dealers and customers, quotations on a "cash" basis would be applied in exceptional cases and for valid reasons upon applications from au thor ized dealers. September 22. In a modification of settlement pro- cedures, it was announced, in ter alia, that with effect f rom October 1, 1981, transactions cleared through the Clearing House In te rbank Payment System (CHIPS), New York, should be settled in "same day" f u n ds (i.e., immediately available f u n ds instead of in "next day" funds as h i ther to). Authorized dealers were accordingly advised to a r range with their overseas correspondents for settlement of transactions in U.S. dollars on the va lue da te in "same day" funds and to ensure that payments were arranged for credit to the ir accounts on "same day" basis; where U.S. dollars were sold by authorized dealers to the Reserve Bank of India ( inc lud ing sales under Foreign Cur- rency Nonresident Scheme), the delivery should be made and the Bank's account w i th the Federal Reserve Bank of New York credited on the va lue date in "same day" funds. September 23. Imports of L. Base (am inod io l) for export houses against their additional licenses were prohibited. October 15. A license to deal in foreign exchange in Ind ia has been granted by the Reserve Bank to Banque de 1'Indochine et de Suez ( INDOSUEZ ), France, in terms of which the Bank could unde r take all types of foreign exchange transactions in all permissible cur- rencies at its branch in Bombay. October 16. Imports of machinery for the seafood industry were put on the OGL list, while drawing repro- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution duction films were transferred from the OGL list to the restricted list. November 18. The following shifts were made in the various lists of impor ts: (a) graphite crucibles of a specified size f rom the banned to the restricted list; (b) certain benzene products from the restricted to the banned list; (c) granu la ted cork from the OGL to the banned list; (d) salbutamol from the OGL to the restricted list; and (e) certain carbon steel from the OGL to the canalized list; in addition, four speci- fied items were removed from the OGL list, and five other items were banned for import by the export houses against their additional licenses. November 26. Flint bu t tons were banned for import by the export houses. December 5. Imports of certain steel products were canalized. December 16. Certain items of synthetic rubber were banned from importation by the export houses. INDIA 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian Rupiah. Since November 16, 1978 the middle rate of the rupiah in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, has been set by Bank Indonesia using a basket of cur- rencies of Indonesia's main t rad ing partners as one of the variables. Transactions in the Jakar ta Foreign Exchange Bourse are effected at rates within 1 per cent either side of the middle rate of the rup iah; on Decem- ber 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates for telegraphic t rans fe rs were Rp 642.50 and Rp 646.00, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for certain other currencies1 are determined on the basis of the rates in the Jakar ta Bourse for the U.S. dollar and rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In the Bourse, daily calls for exchange are conducted under the management of Bank Indonesia. Bidding for exchange is restricted to the authorized foreign exchange banks, nonbank f inanc ial institutions, and licensed for- eign exchange dealers. Bank Indonesia is committed to deal with any willing buyer or seller at the going rate. Representatives of the foreign exchange banks no t i fy Bank Indonesia of their supply to the market, and each presents a bid for the total of his bank's requirements at a par t icu lar rate. Bank Indonesia clears the market at the in terven t ion rate. The Bank also offers authorized banks and nonbank f inanc ial institutions certain facilities for swap transactions in U.S. dollars. Administration of Control The implementation of exchange and trade control is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives, the M in is try of Finance, authorized foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Exchange control is administered by Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance. Sabang is entirely outside the Indonesian exchange and trade control system,2 but the Indonesian rupiah is legal tender there. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks and are normally effected in conver- tible currencies. Export proceeds must be received in 1 Currencies commonly used in Indonesia's international trans- actions, i.e., Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 With the exception that the prohibition on imports of certain automobiles is applicable also in Sabang. 234 specified currencies.8 Indonesia maintains no operative bilateral payments agreements.4 Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by fo re ign na t iona ls of accounts in Indonesia in rupiahs or fore ign currencies with authorized foreign exchange banks. No distinction for exchange control purposes is made be- tween resident and nonresident accounts. However, no checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts; if the account holder wishes to w i thd raw funds, a letter must be sent to the bank. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers, and an initial deposit is required for registration. Since Octo- ber 31, 1968 only Indonesian na t iona ls can be au tho- rized as importers, although foreign investors are per- mitted to import the items required for their own projects. Imports f rom Angola, South A f r ica, and Zimbabwe are prohibited, as are imports f rom all sources of most secondhand goods and of specified commodities. The latter include bu i l t -up sedans and station wagons; com- ponents for the assembly of luxury automobiles; bu i l t -up commercial vehicles and motorcycles; certain types of airplanes and helicopters; radio and television sets in bu i l t-up or semiknocked-down condition; galvanized iron sheets; iron roofing sheets; mosquito sticks; matches; monosodium glutamate; mattresses; certain types of cotton shirting and specified types of textiles; automo- bile tires; batteries; printed ma t ter; office supplies; animal traps; bottles; and certain lamps and light bulbs. Imports of certain goods, such as cloves, fertilizer, gold, pesticide, rice, refined sugar, and wheat flour are restricted to approved importers. Imports of certain commodities for the "basic national stockpile" are reserved for state enterprises; these currently include cement, newsprint, certain types of paper, automobile tires, asphalt, cotton weaving ya rn, sheet iron, rein-? forcing steel, raw materials for ma r i t ime industries, and pharmaceutical raw materials. No special licenses are required for permitted imports, except for imports of cement, certain newsprint, and certain cotton weaving yarn. In principle, all permitted imports may be paid for with general exchange (Devisa Umum). Bankers' sight letters of credit are required for most private sector imports, with the exception of parcel impor ts, goods brought in by travelers of a value not exceeding US$100, imports specifically authorized by the Ministry of Trade 3 The currencies listed in footnote 1 and the U.S. dollar. 4 Indonesia maintains an inoperative bilateral paymen ts agreement with the People's Republic of China. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and Cooperatives or by the Investment Coo rd ina t ing Board in the case of goods cons t i tu t ing p a rt of a fo re ign inves tmen t, and those specific cases in wh ich usance letters of credit may be allowed.5 Import du t ies, which are pa r t ly specific and p a r t ly ad valorem, are imposed on "check" prices ( ind ica t ive prices) determined by the M in is ters of Trade and Cooperatives, Indus t ry, and Finance on the recommen- dation of a Check Price Team. These prices reflect c.i.f. prices and are changed when prices abroad d i f f er by more than 10 per cent f rom the check pr ices for the preceding three months. Sales taxes of 5, 10, and 20 per cent are levied on most imports on the ir c. & f. va lue plus impo rt du ty. Cer ta in commod i t ies are granted preferential duty trea tment w i th in the frame- work of the ASEAN p re fe ren t ial t rad ing a r rangemen t s. Items that are exempt f rom import duties are also exempt from sales taxes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Angola, the People's Republic of China, Israel, South A f r ica, and Zimbabwe are pro- h ib i ted, as are exports to all countries of gold ore and pu re gold; rawh ides of cattle; cer ta in categories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber; cer ta in logs and t imbe r; all types of waste paper ( f rom Java and M a d u r a ); scrap of bronze and copper (except f rom Ir ian J a y a ); iron scrap; steel scrap; fertilizers; rice; sugar; kapok seeds; and raw ra t tan. Registration of authorized exporters is required. Exports of certain domestically produced commodities are controlled by means of quotas, in order to ma in ta in supplies to meet domes t ic d em a n d; these include logs, fertilizers, cement, cons t ruc t ion re in fo rcemen ts of iron, automobile tires, paper, a spha l t, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat flour, sugar, maize, soybeans, rice, copra, coconut oil, palm oil, palm kernel oil, olein, and meat. The prior authorization of the M in is ter of Trade and Cooperatives is required for the export of flatbark crepe, cinchona bark, clove seeds, pepper seeds, silver, antiques of cultural value, and all goods produced f rom subsidized raw materials. Other- wise, all commodities may be free ly exported by regis- tered p r iva te firms and state t rad ing firms. Certain export transactions may be settled u n d er usance letters of credit; the m ax imum m a tu r i ty is 180 days, s tar t ing f rom the date of the bill of l ad ing. Otherwise, all exporters except certain m i n i ng com- panies and licensed "border-crossing" traders must require their buyers to open a bank le t ter of c red it covering the value of the goods to be exported. The exporter must su r render the fu ll fo re ign exchange va lue prior to shipment if there is no banker's letter of c red i t .6 For the principal export commodities other t h an pe t ro- 5 The requ i rement for importers abolished on J a n u a ry 16, 1982. 6 The requ i rement that exporters must surrender export proceeds in foreign exchange to Bank Indonesia was abolished on J a n u a ry 16, 1982. letters of credit was to open INDONESIA leum, the sale prices must not be lower than the "indica- tive" prices determined periodically by the M in i s ter of Trade and Cooperatives. The f u ll proceeds f r om expo r ts other than petroleum, produc ts of cer ta in m i n i ng com- panies, certain exports from export-processing zones, and goods exported by licensed "border-crossing" traders are subject to surrender. Exports of copra cake, sawn timber, palm oil, and a few other com- modities are subject to a 5 per cent tax, the ma jor m ine ral products to a 10 per cent tax, and semi- processed r a t t an, unsawn t imber ( log s ), and certain types of hides to a 20 per cent tax. Cer ta in commodities produced in border reg ions may be exported to Malaysia and the Ph i l ipp ines in e x c h a n ge for certain eligible goods. In this "border-crossing" trade with Malaysia, the va lue of impo rt or export t r an s a c- t ions must not exceed M$600 a mon th, whe ther t r a n s- ported overland or by sea; for the Ph i l ipp ines, the v a l ue of imports or exports must not exceed the r u p i ah or peso equivalent of US$150 for a single tr ip if trans- ported by sea-going vessel or US$1,500 if t r an spo r t ed by boat. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted or subject to control. Pro- ceeds f rom invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and b r ing in any amount in fo r e ign bank- notes but only Rp 50,000 in Indones ian notes and coin other than gold and silver commemora t ive coins (see section on Gold, be low ). Capital Foreign capital invested in Indones ia is governed p r ima r i ly by the Foreign Capital Inves tment Law of J a n u a ry 10, 1967, as amended in August 1970, by Presidential Guidelines issued on J anu a ry 22, 1974 and September 21, 1974, together w i th two P res iden t ial Decrees promulgated on October 3, 1977, and by a Presidential Decree issued in Ju ly 1981. In pr inc ip le, such inves tmen ts may be under taken only th rough a jo int ven tu re with an Indonesian par tner. All invest- ments in Indonesia require the approval of the President on the recommenda t ion of the Investment Coo rd ina t ing Board (BK PM ). Enterprises that are wholly or largely operated in Indonesia as separate business un i ts must be incorporated under Indonesian law and must have the ir domicile in Indonesia. The operating pe rm it for fo re ign investment is usua l ly valid for a max imum of 30 years. Among the inducements offered are exemption f rom, or reduction in, corporate and dividend taxes and customs duties on imported raw ma ter ia ls and capital goods for a cer ta in number of years. Investors are gran ted the right to t ran s fer profits (a f ter settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indones ia) and to make transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of fore ign nationals in Indonesia, and in respect of depre- ciation allowances af ter the expiration of the tax holiday 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA f rom corporation tax. The law provides that no t rans fer permit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as the investments benefit from tax relief; at present, how- ever, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. The exploration and development of petroleum re- sources are governed by the Petroleum Law of 1960. A Debt Investment Conversion Scheme (DIGS) exists for the benefit of foreign creditors holding non- guaranteed claims against Indonesia. Rupiahs covered by the Scheme are administered in two k inds of DICS- Rup iah Accounts, A and B, the former relating only to claims of which the creditor is the first holder. Private creditors willing to accept the terms of the Scheme and prepared to make investments under the Foreign Capital Investment Law of 1967 are paid in rupiahs in settle- ment of their claims. These claims are transferable to other potential investors in Indonesia, but only the original creditor's DICS rupiahs may be used, in the creditor's own projects that have been approved under the Foreign Capital Investment Law of 1967, for the purchase of foreign exchange for the import of equip- ment and raw materials necessary for the establishment and operation of those projects. There are no limitations on the remittance to Indo- nesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or commodities. Both residents and nonresidents may hold foreign currency deposits with foreign exchange banks. However, foreign exchange banks and nonbank financial institutions are subject to Bank Indonesia directives with respect to borrowing abroad, the acceptance of deposits from nonresidents, and the issuance of certificates of deposit to nonresidents. A 15 per cent reserve require- ment is applicable to the foreign currency liabilities of foreign exchange banks; no reserve requirements are applicable to the foreign borrowings of nonbank finan- cial institutions or private companies. Certain borrow- ing abroad is subject to clearance by Bank Indonesia, and all foreign borrowing is subject to reporting to Bank Indonesia or the Ministry of Finance. The prior approval of the Minister of Finance is required before any public enterprise or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign nationality may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securi- ties denominated in rupiahs or in foreign currency. Gold Indonesia has issued six commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indonesia. Exports of gold ore and pure gold, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are prohibited. Travelers may freely take out Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970 up to Rp 65,000 a person and gold and silver coins issued in Octo- ber 1974 up to Rp 130,000 a person; amounts in excess 236 of these limits require the prior approval of Bank Indo- nesia. Gold may be imported free of license only by importers designated by the Government. Such imports require prior notification to the Ministry of Industry and are subject to an additional levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Changes during 1981 January 1. For a period up to March 31, 1981 an add i t ional export tax was imposed on f a n cy sawn tim- ber, black tea, coffee, palm oil, and stearin. January 1. For a period up to February 28, 1981 an additional export tax was imposed on copra and coconut oil. February 12. A par t ial exemption from import du ty and import sales tax was granted on imports of in ternal combustion piston engines of not more than 20 horse- power, equipped with the sha ft and propeller for river and coastal public transportation facilities. February 13. Tax reliefs on import du ty and import sales tax were granted on imports of corrugated iron sheets for use in construction projects. March 16. A partial exemption f rom import du ty and import sales tax was granted on the import of certain photographic equipment. March 24. A par t ial exemption f rom import duty and import sales tax was gran ted on the import of sev- eral kinds of raw ma ter ia ls for the m anu f a c tu re of polyurethane leather. April 1. A partial exemption f rom import duty and import sales tax was granted on imports of certain types of paper and carton paper. April 15. Exemption f rom import du ty and import sales tax was granted on import of raw material for the manu fac tu re of fishnets and fishtraps. May 1. The export quota on logs was reduced, as follows: companies already having a plywood mill in operation will be allowed to export up to 20 per cent of their output, while those in the process of setting up a plywood mill would be allowed to export up to 66 per cent of the output during the next two years. (Changes in export regulations during the year also included sev- eral changes in export taxes, involving the discontinu- ance of export taxes on, in ter alia, coffee and rubber .) May 8. A partial exemption f rom import duty and import sales tax was granted on the import of certain types of fishnet floaters. May 18. A partial exemption from import duty and import sales tax was granted on the import of rubber- mixed carton paper, including synthetic rubber. August 29. The list of commodities eligible for pref- erential duty treatment within the framework of the ASEAN preferential trading arrangements was expanded by 150. September 18. The 40 per cent advance deposit requirement was abolished. import ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iran is the Iran ian Rial, which is pegged to the SDR at Rls 92.300 = SDR 1. Exchange rates for ind iv idual currencies are determined daily on the basis of the SDR-rial rate and the rates of such currencies in terms of the SDR as declared by the Fund. On December 31, 1981 the official rates of Bank Markazi Iran ( the Central Bank) for the U.S. dollar were Rls 79.225 buy ing and Rls 79.675 selling, per US$1. These da i ly exchange rates are used for the purpose of ca lcu la t ing import registration fees and import duties. A preferen t ial rate is applied to pro- ceeds from non-oil exports, and other posted rates are applied to sales of fore ign exchange for tourism and certain other payments for invisibles. Administration of Control Exchange control au thor i ty is vested in Bank Mar- kazi. All foreign exchange transactions must take place through this Bank or authorized banks. Imports and exports are governed by regulations issued periodi- cally by the M in is try of Commerce af ter being approved by the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Transactions with seven of the ten countries with which Iran has bilateral paymen ts agreements1 must be conducted through agreement accounts denominated in U.S. dollars, while those with the People's Republic of China, the German Democratic Republic, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea must be con- ducted through accounts denominated in Iran ian rials. Settlements with Mexico may optionally be made through a clearing account denominated in U.S. dol- lars. Settlements w i th the other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (Bangladesh, Bu rma, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, na tu ral gas, and their produc ts) may be effected in Asian Mone tary Un i ts or in the currency of a country that is a pa r ty to the ind iv idual contract. Payments to and f rom Pak is tan and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, petroleum and petro- leum products, and defense ma ter ia ls) are settled over clearing accounts ma in ta ined by the respective central banks in U.S. dollars. Payments to Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts With the prior approval of Bank Markazi, foreign na t iona ls may ma in ta in accounts in rials, as well as in fore ign currencies, with authorized banks; rial accounts may be used for payments in Iran. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited and special regu la t ions apply to certain commodities when o r ig ina t ing in Hong Kong. Some imports are made by government-operated import agencies ( import c en t e r s ), but ind iv idual importers can in i t ia te the impor- ta t ion of goods, subject to the prior approval of the import centers and to a check by the la t ter that the invoice is in order. Foreign exporters are required to o f fer supplies to the relevant impo rt center be fo re o f fe r- ing them to pr iva te impor ters. The import policy is re-exam ined per iod ica l ly, and a new Impo rt List, effec- t ive for the next I ran ian year (Ma rch 21-March 20 ), is pub l ished by the M in i s t ry of Commerce. The Import List distinguishes between "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods.2 "Authorized" imports consist of goods considered as essential. "Unau thor ized" imports are goods whose impor ta t ion is not considered essential, inc lud ing goods whose local produc t ion is su f f ic ient to meet domestic demand. Commodities may be shifted f rom t h e- "authorized" list to the "unauthorized" list, and vice versa, as and when deemed necessary. For "prohibited" goods, no au thor iza t ions are given; these comprise items such as opium, f i rea rms, and imports considered to be luxu ry goods. At the t ime of registration of imports, a fee of 1 per cent of the amount of the import order, calculated on the basis of the official selling rate, is collected by authorized banks. For some goods, impo r te rs must lodge w i th Bank Markaz i, th rough an au thor ized bank, a deposit of 15 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue; th is is done at the t ime of registration. Most food items and cer- ta in other commodities are exempt f rom the registration deposit. The deposit is re fundab le upon presentation of the customs clearance certificate a f ter the goods have been cleared th rough customs, or if and when the order is canceled. Bank Markazi may permit, when neces- sary, the sh i f t ing of imports f rom the category in which an advance import deposit is required to the exempt category and vice versa. Authorized banks make payments for permitted impor ts against the presentation of shipping documents. Approval of the sh ipp ing documents by the authorized banks represents approval of the fo re ign exchange transfer. Most imports are subject to commercial benefit taxes, which are either specific or ad valorem and are imposed in addition to any applicable customs duty. Monopoly taxes are included in the commercial benefit taxes. The authorities specify in the Import List the commercial 1 Albania, Bu lga r ia, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Democratic People's Repub- lic of Korea, Poland, Roman ia, and U.S.S.R. 2 As f r om October 5, 1981 all imports in to I ran are requ i red to be au tho r ized by the m in is t r ies and o rgan iza t ions concerned, before being registered by the authorized banks. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN benefit taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to the customs before customs clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon the presentation of shipping documents endorsed by an authorized bank, specifying that payment has been made or will be made, and, when required, that the special import authoriza- tion has been received from government agencies prior to lading of goods in the country of origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports are made on the same basis as payments for the f.o.b. value of those imports. Official exchange is granted to importers for insurance of imports against bills for collection; for imports covered by documen tary letters of credit, insur- ance must be taken out in Iran. Official exchange also is not granted for the payment of other insurance premiums, although payment of premiums for reinsur- ance is permitted. Foreign nationals working in Iran, whose employ- ment has been recognized as necessary by the Govern- ment, may remit about 50 per cent of their net salaries. The basic travel allowance for an individual Iranian is up to the equivalent of US$1,000. Upon presentation of a valid passport, valid exit visa, travel ticket, and evidence of payment of travel tax, extra allowances can be provided to the spouse and children of the pass- port holder. Persons needing medical treatment may obtain for- eign exchange up to the equivalent of US$10,000; addi- tional foreign exchange can be obtained against medical bills certified by an Iranian consulate abroad. The sale of fore ign exchange to students s tudy ing abroad varies for different countries according to the cost of living in the respective countries, up to US$750 a year; an additional allowance of 35 per cent of the basic allow- ance is provided for married students. Iran ian nationals leaving the country are required to pay a travel tax of Rls 20,000 for each single-journey exit permit. The tax is imposed also for pilgrimage travel. For family members traveling on the same passport (w i fe, and children f rom 7 to 18 years of age ), the rate is Rls 5,000 a person. Iranians resident abroad and students studying abroad but visiting home tem- porarily are exempt f rom the tax. Travelers leaving Iran may take with them Rls 20,000 in Iranian banknotes. Travelers of foreign nationality may not export foreign currency in excess of the amount they imported less the amounts they have sold to autho- rized banks, as recorded in their passports. the time of import of raw materials contained in manu- fac tu red goods for export may be re turned to the exporter af ter the export has taken place. Bank Markazi offers preferential rates of exchange for export pro- ceeds in certain cases. The foreign currency proceeds f rom exports of com- modities must be sold to banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Authorized banks normally accept export proceeds only in currencies quoted by Bank Markazi, but, with the prior approval of Bank Markazi, they may accept other currencies. Exports to Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles may be retained in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank; transfers from such accounts require the prior approval of Bank Markazi. Travelers may free ly bring in Rls 20,000 in Iran ian banknotes; the import of larger amounts requires the prior approval of Bank Markazi. Capital Iranian nationals may re ta in in domestic fore ign cur- rency accounts any capital receipts accruing in foreign exchange; transfers abroad f rom such accounts require the approval of Bank Markazi. Re t rans fer abroad of foreign capital is permitted with approval f rom Bank Markazi, provided that the inf low has been specifically authorized by, and registered with, Bank Markazi. The net short-term foreign liabilities of the commercial banks are subject to a reserve requirement of 20 per cent. Gold No I ran ian gold coins are legal tender. Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold and silver in any form in Iran, and there is a free market for both metals. Authorized banks may import gold and silver bullion with prior approval of Bank Markazi against settlement at the official rate. The import and export of gold for monetary purposes or for international settlements is reserved for the Bank Markazi, while imports for indus tr ial and dental use are effected by professional organizations at the official rate and subject to supervision by Bank Markazi. The export of Iran ian gold coins for numismatic purposes requires prior approval by Bank Markazi. Imports of gold are f ree f rom customs duty but are subject to a commercial benefit tax of 5 per cent and an import registration fee of 1 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of some commodities require licenses. The commercial benefit tax and customs du ty charged at Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 238 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ID 1 = US$3.3778. The official buy ing and selling rates on December 31, 1981 were US$3.3950 and US$3.3778, respectively, per ID 1. Buying and selling rates for cer- tain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in marke ts abroad. The Central Bank of Iraq undertakes transactions in the listed currencies only with authorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchase or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control au tho r i ty is vested in the Board of Administration of the Central Bank; this au tho r i ty has been delegated to the Governor and his Depu ty who act on recommendations subm i t ted by an Adv isory Com- mittee on Foreign Exchange. Certain approval author- ity has been delegated to the Department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Governor. All branches of the Ra f ida in Bank, the sole commercial bank, are licensed dealers. Import policy is determined by the Board for the Regulation of Trade. A foreign exchange budget, inc lud ing an import pro- gram, is established annually, and foreign exchange allocations under the import program are supervised by the Import Program Committee. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries n o rm a l ly m u st be made in any of the listed currencies or by draw ing on a nonresident account in Iraqi dinars, provided that the funds on the nonresident account were obtained orig- inally through credits in any one of the listed currencies. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Pay- ments to and receipts from Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Nonresi- dent accounts are divided in to ord inary nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of capital transfers. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities norma l ly are handled by the socialized sector. All private imports are subject to licenses, except imports of ma te r ia ls cons t i tu t ing basic elements for development projects bene f i t ing f rom Law for Major Development Projects No. 157 of 1973. In principle, licenses are issued in accordance w i th an annual import program. Imports of all goods f rom Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of some commodities on a protection l ist are, in p r inc ip le, prohibited from all sources. A tax is levied on the amount of any supp lemen ta ry import licenses above a private importer's annu al quota. Regulations determining the incidence of this tax are issued annually. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5 per cent is levied on imports of cap i tal goods and a tax of 0.75 per cent on imports of con- sumer goods. All imports subject to import d u ty are also subject to a customs surcharge of 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty. The Rafidain Bank makes exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for educational and med ical expenses abroad, fre ight on exports effected on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. The Raf ida in Bank is per- mitted, subject to the approval of the Central Bank, to transfer up to 50 per cent of annual income accrued to Arab and foreign nationals resident in Iraq, unless the particular contract extends this limit to 75 per cent. Certain nonresident private sector companies that have contracts with public institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts provided for in those contracts; those not employed under contracts may transfer abroad up to ID 900 a person a year. There is a basic exchange allowance for tourist travel of ID 500 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 250 for persons under 18) for trips to A rab coun- tries, socialist countries, Iran, and Turkey, irrespective of the length of stay; for subsequent trips in the same calendar year these allowances may be reduced to 50 per cent of the basic allowance for one trip. For tourist travel to other countries, the basic allowance is ID 1,000 a trip for each person 18 years of age (ID 500 for persons under 18 years), irrespective of the length of stay, and 50 per cent of the basic allocation for subsequent trips in the same calendar year. 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ The individual exchange allowance for official mis- sions abroad is ID 60-70 a day for Group A countries (Western European and Arab countries) and ID 50-60 a day for Group B countries (socialist countries, Turkey, and Cyprus), subject to a limit of 90 days a trip. For- eign exchange allocations for Iraqi students abroad are as follows: in addition to actual tuition costs, for each academic year, ID 1,800 for students in the United States, ID 1,600 for the United Kingdom, ID 1,450 for the Netherlands, ID 1,200 for Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, and ID 900 for other Arab countries; supple- mentary allowances of ID 300 a year to students in Western Europe, ID 250 for those in Arab countries, and ID 100-300 for those in the U.S.S.R. are also permitted. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance of that allowance in travelers checks. Residents on pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to take out the equivalent of ID 500, whether they travel on their own or make arrangements through travel agents. Half of this allowance is permitted for persons under 18 years. Exchange allowances for pil- grimage are unrelated to other traveling allowances dur- ing the year. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Afr ica and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The Board for the Regulation of Trade has authority to prohibit the export of any commodity when supply falls short of domestic demand. The export of certain items is reserved for the General Organization for Exports. All other exports are licensed freely. Exporters generally must undertake to repatriate their foreign exchange proceeds through the Rafidain Bank and to surrender them within six months after shipment. Proceeds from exports of dates taken by sailing boats to countries of the Gulf area (excluding I ran ), India, and Pakistan are exempt from these requirements when the amount does not exceed ID 600 in value or 25 tons in weight. Exports of certain goods are subsidized through an Export Subsidy Fund. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 50 from invisibles must be surrendered within three months to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israel currency), in unlimited amounts, provided that the funds are declared on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. Travelers may bring in ID 25 in Iraqi notes, and Arab nationals of Gulf countries may bring in ID 100 in such notes. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel or South Africa, but they must deposit it with the Rafidain Bank; such deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the coun try of origin is permitted. Under Resolution No. 1646 of the Revolutionary Command Council, enacted in November 1980, the following regulations on investments are applied: (a) no foreign (defined as non-Arab) participation is allowed in the capital of private sector companies; (b) citizens of A rab states may participate with Iraqis in the capital of industrial projects and commercial companies; (c) shares of for- eigners (other than nationals of Arab states) participat- ing in the capital of indus tr ial projects and commercial companies in Iraq must be phased out w i th in a period of one year from the in troduc t ion of this Resolution. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval. Special facilities allow Arab investors to bring in con- vertible currency; similar facilities permit Iraqi nationals abroad to open accounts at the Ra f ida in Bank with for- eign currencies that are free ly transferable abroad. Under the Industrial Promotion Law (No. 22 of 1973), certain incentives and guaran tees may be granted to approved investments of domestic or foreign capital in Iraq. Under the Iraqization Law of June 1961, all branches of foreign firms and all foreign-owned firms must have a ma jor i ty of Iraqi equity capital; this law does not cover export agencies and operations requiring special skills. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Iraq in any form other than gold bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form require the approval of the Central Bank. The Rafidain Bank has a monopoly over the import and domestic distribution of gold needed for industrial purposes; it sells gold to registered gold- smiths only, under a quota system based on their past turnover of gold. Travelers may freely br ing gold into Iraq, provided that it is declared at the point of entry on a foreign exchange form. Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 240 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ireland is the Irish Pound. Ireland participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Fed- eral Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS ). In accordance with this agreement, Ireland ma in ta ins the spot exchange rates between the Irish pound and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 2.25 per cent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 per cent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Central Bank of Ireland stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1981 these rates were as follows: Irish Pounds Specified Intervention Rates Per: Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 1.71755 100 Danish kroner 8.84854 100 deutsche mark 29.0480 100 French francs 11.3375 100 Italian lire 0.055875 100 Netherlands guilders 26.2790 1.64198 8.45922 27.7700 10.8387 0.049560 25.1228 The participants in the EMS are not ma in ta in ing exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention curren- cies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$1.5805 and US$1.5795, respectively, per I r < £ l. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On February 15, 1961, Ireland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the au thor i ty for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Industry and Energy or the Department of Trade, Commerce, and Tourism if the goods are of an industrial na ture or by the Depart- ment of Agriculture if they are agricultural in charac- ter; import licenses are also issued by the Department of Fisheries and Forestry and in some cases by the Department of Health or the Department of Justice. Import licensing is not used for exchange control pur- poses. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency The administration of Irish exchange control is based on the distinction between entities that are per- manen t ly resident in Ireland and nonresidents, i.e., residents of other countries. The latter comprises two categories: (1) residents of EC member countries and (2) residents of all other countries. Authorized pay- ments may be made in Irish pounds or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports must be received in foreign currency or in Irish pounds from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Irish pounds of nonresidents are desig- nated External Accounts. All credits in excess of I r<£ 250,000 to External Accounts held by nonbanks require specific approval by the Central Bank, except where the credit is in respect of imports into Ireland. There are also limits on max imum balances in Exter- nal Accounts of nonresident banks; these may be maintained without prior approval of the Central Bank. External Accounts may be credited w i th paymen ts that are eligible for transfer abroad under a general or specific exchange control approval, w i th transfers from other External Accounts, payments for any foreign currencies purchased from account holders, the pro- ceeds of Irish currency notes in denom ina t ions not exceeding Ir<£20, payments from w i th in the coun try up to Ir£100 in value, and interest payable on the accounts; they may be debited for transfers to residents, transfers to other External Accounts, the cost of any foreign currency sold to account holders, the transfer of any part of account balances to account holders, and bank charges, if applicable. Authorized banks may operate foreign currency accounts in the names of nonresidents in any foreign currency; these accounts are subject to the same require- ments as External Accounts. Authorized banks may also operate foreign currency accounts in the names of residents under specific central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain goods into Ireland is subject to five types of administrative control, as follows: Quantitative Restriction. Special quota restrictions apply to (1) bicycle tires f rom countries other than member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and Japan; (2) certain textile products originating in the state trad ing coun- tries; (3) automobile tires from the German Demo- 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND cratic Republic; (4) footwear from Czechoslovakia, Republic of Korea, and Taiwan; and (5) certain sacks and bags other than those of wool, cotton, and man- made fibers (ma in ly ju te bags originating in Hong Kong, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, Pakistan, Taiwan, the state trad ing countries, and Yugoslavia). Autonomous import restrictions have been imposed by the EC on certain textiles from Taiwan. Voluntary Restraint. The EC has negotiated bilateral restraint agreements with various supplying countries on trade in textiles under which import quotas are set each year for d ifferent products. Ireland has a volun- tary restraint agreement w i th Poland in regard to certain footwear. Surveillance. Ireland operates a system of surveil- lance on imports of certain live plants or floricultural products, certain processed f ru it and vegetable prod- ucts, certain phosphate fertilizers, certain iron and steel products, certain clothing and textiles, certain footwear, twine, cordage, and certain motorcar types. National Public Policy. For reasons of national policy, imports of certain goods (e.g., specified drugs, explosives, firearms and ammun i t ion) are prohibited without special licenses. Prior Permission. Under this type of control, prior permission of the Central Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than nine months a f ter the date of the order, or if payment is not being made in an approved manner. Goods not for use in Ireland must, in general, be paid for with borrowed foreign currency. Special import restrictions apply in regard to motor vehicles. Imports from non-EC countries of products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC may be subject to various charges such as levies and monetary compensatory amounts under that policy and to duties under the common customs t a r i f f. For permitted imports, permission to make payments to nonresidents is granted automatically. Au thor i ty to make payments is delegated to authorized dealers. Exchange control forms are required for import payments exceeding I r£ 10,000. Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents require approval. Approval to make payments for most invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tourist travel there is a basic allowance for resi- dents of Ireland of Ir<£600 a person for each trip, or where the trip exceeds two months, I r<£ 2,000. For business travel, up to Ir<£3 ,000 at a rate of I r<£100 a day is allowed for each journey. Limits are also established for allowances for education and other pur- poses. Applications for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is 242 involved. Not more than Ir<£500 of an allowance of foreign currency may be issued in the form of currency notes. Residents may also take with them up to I r<£100 in Irish currency notes. Nonresidents may take with them any foreign currency notes that they brought into Ireland. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. Exporters of goods must obtain pay- ment for the goods w i th in six months of shipment, if their value exceeds Ir<£100. When payment is received in foreign currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Exchange con- trol forms are required for exports exceeding I r<£ 10,000 and must be produced to Irish customs at the point of exportation. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requ iremen ts governing exchange receipts f rom invisibles, but if foreign cur- rencies are received they must be offered for sale to an authorized bank or permission for the ir retention must be obtained. Any foreign currency held by a person a f t er his re turn from a trip abroad may be retained for subsequent travel purposes for three months f rom the date he received the exchange. There are no l im i ta t ions on the import of Irish or foreign banknotes, but prior central bank approval must be obtained to credit Irish bankno tes in denominations exceeding I r<£20 to External Accounts. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all trans- fers of capital to nonresidents. Au tho r i ty to make certain payments has been delegated to authorized dealers; other payments require central bank approval. The normal allowance available to Irish residents on emigration is I r<£ 40,000 for each fam i ly. Where the total value of an emigrant's assets exceed I r<£ 40,000, the t rans fer of the excess amount is restricted for a period of four years f rom the emigrant's redesignation as a nonresident, i.e., f rom the date of departure from Ireland; however, du r ing this four-year period, income on restricted assets may be transferred abroad. After the four-year period, the balance of restricted assets may be freely exported without limit. For Irish resi- dents taking up permanent residence in an EC country, including those taking up employment, applications to transfer Irish assets to the new country of residence in excess of the normal allowances are considered. There are no restrictions on the inflow of capital, but inward direct investment requires exchange control approval. Purchases of unquoted Irish securities by nonresidents require exchange control approval, and the purchase of nonurban land by foreign nationals in some cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The Central Bank considers applications by Irish residents for permission to purchase property for per- sonal use in a member coun try of the EC with foreign currency purchased at the official rate of exchange. The acquisition of personal property outside the EC may be financed only by fore ign currency loans, which are approved by the Cen tral Bank on application, subject to a l im it of I r<£ 20,000 a property and one property for each fam i ly un i t. Borrowings may be repaid with official foreign exchange in equal annual installments over a period of not less than five years. The entire foreign currency proceeds f rom the sale of property outside Ireland purchased for personal use of a resi- dent must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Transactions in fore ign currency securities are con- trolled to ensure tha t, in general, capital is not trans- ferred outside Ireland. All such transactions must be routed through an approved agent (an Irish bank, stockbroker, or solicitor). Resident holdings of all foreign currency securities may be sold only to non- residents. Where such securities are sold, the proceeds must either be reinvested in foreign securities or be offered for sale to an authorized dealer within three months. During that three-month period, in the absence of the specific approval of the Central Bank, the pro- ceeds must be held under the control of an approved agent. Purchases of fore ign currency securities, apart from switches referred to above, are prohibited. The Central Bank may, however, approve applications by authorized insurers and pension funds for the export of a limited amount of f u n ds at the current rate of exchange for investment in foreign currency securities. Foreign currency borrowing by in s t i tu t ional investors and professional por tfo l io managers for portfolio invest- ment abroad may also be approved in some cases. The Central Bank will grant permission for investment at the current rate of exchange in securities issued by the EC, the European Investment Bank, the European Coal and Steel Community, and the European Atomic Energy Community. Direct investment abroad requires prior approval and may normally be financed by borrowing foreign currency; in certain cases the use of official exchange may be approved, depending on the merits of the project. Use of official exchange is allowed, however, for all approved new direct investments by Irish resi- dents in EC member countries. Purchases by nonresidents of Irish registered securi- ties must be funded with foreign currency or Irish pounds from an External Account; purchases in excess of Ir <£ 100,000 must be notified to the Central Bank. Remittances of cash gifts or personal loans are normally permitted up to I r£ 1,500 a donor a calendar IRELAND year. Applications by Irish residents to make cash gifts to EC residents, in excess of the normal allow- ance, are considered. Residents require prior exchange control approval (1) to accept loans from nonresidents, irrespective of the currency of such loans, and (2) to accept loans in foreign currency from any source; such applications are considered on their merits and, except as regards borrowing for the acquisition of property for personal use, on the benefit l ike ly to accrue to the economy. Public sector borrowing f rom nonresidents is under- taken fo l low ing consultation with the Central Bank. Lending of Irish currency to nonresidents is not nor- mally permitted, except to the extent that overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of diplomatic and consular missions in Ireland. Provided that the company is not a channel for por tfo l io invest- ment, a subsidiary or branch of a company controlled directly by interests in EC countries may ob ta in f rom Irish banks, subject to exchange control approval, all the finance it requires for its operation in Ireland. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coin in Ireland. Dealings in gold bullion are restricted, and no dealings take place in Ireland. Although there are no import restrictions, residents require specific exchange control permission to pur- chase gold coin or bullion outside Ireland. Specific exchange control permission also is required for the export of gold coin and bullion outside Ireland. Spe- cific permission to buy or export gold coin or bullion normally is given only for bona fide num isma t ic or industrial purposes, respectively. Residents of Ireland are not permitted to hold gold abroad. Changes during 1981 October 4. Following a similar action on March 22, 1981, currency realignments were effected within the European Monetary System, resulting in the following changes in intervention rates: Specified Intervention Rates Per: lOOd eu t s che mark 100 French francs 100 Italian lire 100 Nether- lands guilders Irish Pounds Old l im i ts Upper Lower New limits Upper Lower 27.533 26.323 29.0480 27.7700 11.6881 11.1739 11.3375 10.8387 0.0612801 0.0543545 0.055875 0.049560 24.9089 23.8130 26.2790 25.1228 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Israel is the Shekel. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transac- tions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to smooth out fluctuations in rates and to ma in ta in orderly conditions in the market. Authorized banks are permitted to deal in foreign exchange with residents and with their correspondents in fo re ign markets. At the end of the morn ing trad ing session, the Bank of Israel publishes an average of the quotations of the day as a representative rate. On December 31, 1981 the representative rate for the U.S. dollar was IS 15.6041 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is the responsibility of the Control- ler of Foreign Exchange and is administered by the Bank of Israel, in cooperation with other government agencies, and is carried out through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the cur- rency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' f u n ds are held either in foreign cur- rency accounts or in local currency accounts. The open- ing of nonresident foreign currency accounts does not require prior approval. The holder may freely effect transfers from his foreign currency account. He may also convert funds held on the account into local cur- rency at the market rate of exchange. There are no restrictions on the opening by a non- resident of a local currency account; such funds may be used locally in permitted transactions, including transfers between nonresidents. Nonresident holders of local currency may convert at the market rate of exchange up to US$3,000 for each visit to Israel, which may be transferred abroad, together with an amount of local currency not exceeding IS 500. This is additional to the repurchase of foreign currency brought in by the nonresident traveler for his current visit. The sales pro- ceeds of real estate and other investments may be trans- ferred in their entirety if the original investment was made through an authorized dealer with foreign cur- rency or State of Israel Development Loan bonds. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may ma in ta in foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Israel on either (1) PATAM accounts, which may be held by all recipients of foreign 244 currency or foreign currency acquired f rom a bank, or (2) PATAM-Res t i tu t ion accounts, which may be held by recipients of res t i tu t ion paymen ts and cer ta in d isab i l i ty pensions. PATAM accounts are demand or t ime deposit accounts in foreign currency placed w i th au thor ized banks, which mu st redeposit, respectively, 90 per cent or 80 per cent of the foreign currency f u n ds w i th the Bank of Israel. Balances in these accounts may be used to pay for any bona f ide in te rna t ional current transac t ion but may not be used for internal transactions. PATAM -Res t i tu t ion accounts also are demand or t ime deposit accounts in convertible currencies w i th autho- rized banks, which must redeposit all of these fore ign currency funds with the Bank of Israel. Funds deposited in res t i tu t ion accounts are free of taxa t ion. PATAM- Restitution accounts are permitted to be used up to a l im it of US$1,800 for payment of expenses in connec- tion w i th travel and subsistence abroad in excess of the basic travel exchange allocation. Holders of PATAM- Res t i tu t ion accounts may resell securities bought with f u n ds in such accounts for foreign currency and may deposit the proceeds in a PATAM-Res t i tu t ion account. Residents who are not holders of PATAM-Res t i tu t ion accounts may deposit the fore ign exchange proceeds f rom the sale of foreign securities in PATAM accounts. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited f rom all sources. Almost all impor ts are free of licensing and adm in i s t ra t ive or quan t i ta t ive restrictions. A few imports on a Restricted List are subject to approval; this list includes some meat and da iry products, sugar, and tobacco. Oilseeds are imported exclusively by or for account of the Govern- ment. Exchange to pay for authorized imports is gran ted au toma t ica l ly by the banks upon presen ta t ion of proof of the import transac t ion. A value-added tax is levied on almost all imported and domestically pro- duced goods, other than capital goods and travel tickets. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments abroad on account of invisi- bles is provided au toma t ica l ly upon proof of the na ture of the transaction. The exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$3,000 a traveler for each journey, of which up to US$500 may be in banknotes and the balance in travelers or bank checks. Foreign currency drawings by means of credit cards are included in this allowance. Resident travelers may take out part or all of the travel allowance in Israel bankno tes. Non- resident travelers leaving Israel are perm i t ted to repur- chase through authorized dealers fore ign currency up to US$3,000 and may also take out up to IS 500 in Israel banknotes. This is in addition to the repurchase of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution foreign currency brought in by the nonresident traveler during his current visit. Commercial banks are autho- rized to sell abroad unlimited amounts of Israel currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses, although for some commodities export licensing is retained for qual- ity control. Export proceeds, which may be received in foreign currencies only, must be surrendered or held in a PATAM account. Exporters may retain in a bank deposit abroad or in a special exporter account in Israel an amount equivalent to 10 per cent of their turnover in the preceding year. For inputs directly imported by an exporter there is a system of rebates of customs duties, wharf charges, and other related charges. The Israel Foreign Trade Risks Insurance Company provides an export insurance facility to cover unfavorab le move- ments in domestic currency costs as measured by movements in the weighted average rate of the shekel against five ma jor currencies, namely, the U.S. dollar, pound sterling, Netherlands guilder, French f ranc, and the deutsche mark. Proceeds front Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles must, in general, be surrendered or kept in foreign exchange in PATAM accounts. Any resident is free to accept specified con- vertible currencies from tourists in payment for cus- tomary tourist services and commodities other than commercial exports, securities, and real estate. For 20 years af ter entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from the requirement to surrender their foreign exchange to the Treasury, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. There are no limits to the amounts of Israel banknotes or foreign currency that may be brought in by travelers. Capitol Foreign exchange brought into Israel for the purpose of investment in the form of loan and equity capital may, subject to approval, be granted preferential treat- ment in accordance w i th the Law for the Encourage- ment of Capital Investment, which grants a limited withholding tax of 25 per cent on income resulting from these investments. Approved investments (loan and equ i ty) are granted exemption f rom the compul- sory deposit requirement and negative interest rate. Approvals granted under the law are classified as "approved enterprises," "approved investments," or "approved loans." Approved enterprise status is granted to enterprises in selected fields of production that are (1) in the fields of industry, tourism, transportation, and agriculture; (2) established in pr ior i ty areas; or (3) export oriented or in the field of import substitu- tion in some specific lines of production. Approved investment or approved loan status may be granted to any enterprise in the above-mentioned sectors; how- ever, loans may only be shareholders' loans. The period ISRAEL of the loan should not be less than seven years and the rate of interest not more than 9 per cent. Beginning in December 1978, a series of measures was adopted restricting the right of residents to receive credits in foreign currency. Since April 1979, direct fore ign cur- rency borrowings from abroad by nonbank residents, except suppliers' credits, have been subject to a com- pulsory deposit requirement of 30 per cent of the value of the loan. Since November 1979 a freeze has been in effect on all such direct foreign borrowing by non- bank residents. Nonbank residents may, however, con- tract loans in foreign currencies f rom resident banks subject to an interest surcharge of 7 per cent. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liquidation of foreign assets are treated in the same way as other proceeds in foreign currency. Residents are not nor- mally permitted to retain abroad real estate, money, securities, or the income from these assets, although residents may invest in foreign securities through local banks. Resident exporters and airline and shipping companies may ma in ta in foreign bank accounts. In addition, residents traveling abroad may ma in ta in limited sums in foreign accounts. New immigrants may retain their foreign assets for 20 years. Transfers abroad of a capital na ture by residents other than new immigrants are generally not permitted. Nonresidents are permitted to purchase in Israel real estate, shares, and debentures. In order to repatriate the principal or profits on these investments, proof is required by an authorized dealer that they were pur- chased w i th foreign currency through an authorized dealer. Direct loans in any form to nonresidents are subject to licensing. Gold Under the regulations concerning the purchase, sale, and holding of gold, there are four categories of gold for various purposes, as follows: ( 1) Bullion for indus- try may be imported by an importer holding an import license. ( 2) Bullion for investment, or certificates con- fe r r ing a right to gold bullion, may be bought or sold only through authorized dealers and must be held in a gold custody account with an authorized dealer. (3) The following bullion coins are at present included in a list of gold coins for inves tmen t: (a) Krugerrands of South Afr ica; (b) 50 dollar Maple Leafs of Canada; (c) 50 pesos of Mexico; (d) 100 corona and 4 dukat coins of Austria; (e) sovereigns of Great Britain; (f) 10 dollar and 20 dollar Liberty coins of the United States; and (g) 20 f r anc napoleon coins of France. These coins may be bought or sold through authorized dealers and must be held in a gold custody account with an authorized dealer. (4) Other gold coins and medallions may be bought, sold, or held by an Israeli resident without restriction. These coins may be imported and exported in the same manner as other goods. Sales of gold included in the above categories are subject to a value-added tax of 12 per cent. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Changes during 1981 February 24. Except with official permission, it was prohibited for a resident to purchase 5 per cent or more of any securities issued by a fo re ign company or to acquire vo t ing r igh ts in such a company. March 1. The interest surcharge on foreign currency loans f rom local banks was reduced f rom 9 per cent to 7 per cent. In addition, the negative interest rate of 4.5 per cent on compulsory deposits f rom direct fore ign currency loans was abolished. April 1. A new law was enacted, mak ing the estab- lishment by Israeli banks of new subsidiaries in Israel or abroad subject to the approval of the Central Bank. June 3. It was officially decided to pay subsidies to exporters of manufac tures, equivalent to 6 per cent of the domestic value added in such exports to European markets dur ing the period March-June 1981, to compensate exporters for losses resulting from the depreciation of European currencies relative to the dollar. Similar compensation schemes were also intro- duced for diamond exporters and citrus growers. July 26. The Israel Foreign Trade Risks Insurance Company introduced an export insurance fac i l i ty to cover unfavorab le movements in domestic currency costs (as measured by the index of wholesale indus tr ial input prices) relative to the average weighted exchange rate of the Israel shekel against five ma jor fo re ign cur- rencies (U.S. dollar, pound sterling, Ne the r lands guilder, French f ranc, and deutsche m a r k ). The coverage, which was applied to domestic va lue added, included an initial premium of 3 per cent in the case of exports to Europe and of 7 per cent for other exports. October 26. Import duties were raised on certain types of textiles. November 2. Imports of certain textiles were made subject to licensing, with the exception of those from the EC. 246 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Italy is the Italian Lira. Italy par- ticipates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS ). In accordance with this agreement, Italy ma in ta ins spot exchange rates between the Italian lira and the cur- rencies of the other participants within margins of 6 per cent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of Italy (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1981 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Belgian or Luxembourg franc Danish krone Deutsche mark French f ranc Irish pound Netherlands guilder Italian Lire Upper limit Lower limit 33.885 174.57 573.08 223.67 2,017.75 518.45 30.055 154.84 508.31 198.395 1,789.71 459.85 The participants in the EMS are not ma in ta in ing the exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Official rates for 17 foreign currencies1 are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.2 On December 31, 1981 the rate for the U.S. dollar was Lit 1,200 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. D ifferent exchange rates arise for outward transfers of resident-owned capital, for the large ma jor i ty of which a deposit in lire of 50 per cent must be lodged with the Bank of Italy. Outward direct investment and certain types of portfolio investment are, however, normally exempt from the deposit requirement. In addition, most foreign exchange payments abroad are subject to a 90-day noninterest- bearing deposit requirement equal to 25 per cent of the 1 Currencies officially quoted are Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, the ECU, French francs, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. aThe official rate is the average of the "fixing" quotations of the foreign exchange markets in Milan and Rome. value of transaction.3 Current and capital transactions exempt from this requirement include, inter alia, imports of wheat, iron and steel products, certain non- ferrous metals, certain energy products, books, products subject to the EC Common Agricultural Policy, freight payments, and lending by Italian residents in foreign countries. Payments under Lit 100,000 and scheduled amortization and interest payments on foreign loans are also exempt. The monetary authorities do not, in principle, inter- vene in the forward exchange market; forward pre- m iums and discounts are norma l ly left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currency, and in forward exchange transactions up to 360 days in major convertible and externally convertible cur- rencies,4 when dealing with other banks and nonbank residents, or up to 180 days when dealing with non- banks or nonresidents. Forward cover is freely permitted only for commercial transactions; cover in respect of f inanc ial transactions requires authorization. Italy formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (U f f ic io I ta l iano dei Cambi, or UIC) on the basis of instructions issued by the M in is try of Foreign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange must be effected through banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the M in is try of Foreign Trade. Certain imports and exports require the prior visa of the Na t ional Foreign Trade Institute. Issues of securities by nonresidents require the prior approval of the M in is try of Foreign Trade and are subject in addition to the rules governing the issuing of Italian securities in Italy. Payments to and from the Republic of San Marino or Vatican City are not subject to exchange control. The net external position of the banks is subject to control by the UIC. This control encompasses ( 1) the net foreign position in foreign currencies and lire together; and (2) the overall position, spot and forward combined, in all foreign currencies; a balanced foreign currency position on a daily basis is required separately in (a) U.S. dollars, (b) EC currencies, (c) ECUs,5 and (d) all other conto valutario currencies 3 This advanced deposit requirement was initially imposed on May 28, 1981 at a rate of 30 per cent of each transaction. It was reduced to 25 per cent on October 1, 1981, 20 per cent on J a n u a ry 1, 1982, and 15 per cent on February 1, 1982; it was abolished on February 8, 1982, slightly ahead of schedule. 4 These currencies are referred to in the Italian regulations as the conto valutario currencies. 5 Under Ministerial Decree of July 27, 1981. 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY combined. Authorized banks are not subject to any ceiling on their net foreign liability position but are prohibited f rom maintaining a net foreign asset position; in addition, outstanding net forward transactions against lire are subject to a ceiling set individually for each bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries must normally be made in convertible currencies or in lire on Foreign Accounts. For settlements with Egypt, there are special arrangements under a debt liquidation agreement. Nonresident Accounts The main types of accounts in Italian lire which nonresidents are allowed to ma in ta in with authorized banks are Foreign Accounts and Capital Accounts.6 The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain investments, is described below. Foreign Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, f rom Capital Accounts, and f rom Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, with lire from authorized current and capital payments, and with the proceeds f rom sales of convertible currencies. They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies in the ordinary market, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account for payments to residents of Italy for current and capital transactions, for payments due to residents on account of their disinvestments abroad, and for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his nominee. Capital Accounts may be credited with transfers from Foreign Accounts, from Special Accounts, and f rom other Capital Accounts and with the proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investments in Italy not made under the provisions of Law No. 211 or Law No. 43 (see below). Capital Accounts may be debited for transfers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts and for the purchase of investments not made under Law No. 43, including purchases of personal property or real estate in Italy. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in Italy convertible currencies or exter- nally convertible European currencies in accordance with the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue of convertible cur- rencies sold in Italy, with transfers from Foreign 6 Italians living or working abroad as well as "border area" residents are permitted to maintain with Italian banks Emigrants' Foreign Cur- rency Accounts denominated in conto valutario currencies. They may be credited with remittances (including banknotes) sent directly to the bank from abroad (up to 80 per cent of the holder's wage or salary earnings) and with interest on the balance; they may be debited freely for conversion into lire, for withdrawals in fore ign banknotes (up to Lit 100,000 for r e tu rn trips ab road ), and for t ran s fe rs abroad (except for accounts held by "border-area" residents). These accounts may also be held by Italian representatives abroad and by Italian s taff employed by international organizations. 248 Accounts, or from other Special Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of investments that have been made in accordance w i th Law No. 43. They may be debited for purchases of the same currency that was originally sold and for investments in Italy, and bal- ances may be transferred to Foreign Accounts, Capital Accounts, or any other Special Account. Nonresidents may also maintain "foreign accounts in foreign exchange" to which may be credited foreign exchange receipts f rom abroad, t ran s fe rs f rom other "foreign accounts in foreign exchange," paymen ts from residents for authorized transactions and, in approved cases, receipts from the sale of assets. Imports and Import Payments Imports are governed by a M in is te r ial Decree of May 6, 1976. The import regu la t ions va ry w i th the coun try of or ig in. Countries are grouped in three ma jor areas: Zone A, wh ich is subdivided into sub- zones A/ 1 (EC countries, Guadeloupe, French Guiana, Ma r t in ique, and R e u n i o n ), A /2 (overseas coun tr ies and territories, member countries of the European Free Trade Association, and other countries associated with the EC ), and A /3 ( th i rd coun t r ie s ); Zone B, which comprises member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA ), A lban ia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea; and Zone C ( J a p a n ). The import control procedures distinguish between goods that may be free ly imported w i thout quan t i ta t ive restric- tion and goods that require a special license. Import liberalization is v ir tua l ly complete for subzones A /1 and A /2, while very few quan t i ta t ive restrictions remain for subzone A /3. Many types of goods from Zones B and C are heavily restricted. For imports f rom countries in Zone B, as well as Egypt and Yugoslavia, the country of origin must also be the country of shipment. Imports f rom non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Ag r icu l tu ral Policy of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agr icu l tural and livestock products. For imports not exceeding Lit 1 m i l l ion in value, no exchange control fo rm is required; for imports f rom Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a f o rm completed by the importer is required; for imports over Lit 2 mil- lion in va lue an import document completed by an authorized bank is required.7 Where settlement takes place more than 360 days a f ter impor ta t ion, the importer must choose an authorized bank as his bank of 7 Effective J a n u a ry 1, 1982, the m a x im um va lue of impo rt or export transaction exempt f rom the requ i rement of an exchange control form and the m in imum va lue of import or export transac t ion for which import documents must be completed were raised f r om Lit 1 million and Lit 2 million, respectively, to Lit 5 million and Lit 50 million, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution domicile, through which he must carry out all payments operations. Deferred payments for imports are per- m i t ted f ree ly if se t t lement is to take place w i th in 360 days after impor ta t ion; such paymen ts require the prior approval of the UIC if the settlement is to take place between 12 months and 24 months a f ter importation. In all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required; where, according to the contract, settlement is to take place more than 360 days a f t er the date of impor ta t ion, the approval of the UIC (in some cases the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade) is required to make the payment prior to the due date set in the contract. Advance paymen ts for imports require special approval when they are to take place more than 120 days before impor ta t ion, except that a 10 per cent advance payment may be made up to 360 days before importation. Advance paymen ts in excess of Lit 5 million must be made with fore ign currency borrowed f rom au thor ized banks. When prepayments for imports exceed Lit 100 m i l l ion, an advance deposit of 5 per cent is required. For all authorized imports, the authorized banks provide exchange or permit payment in I ta l ian lire to a Foreign Account, provided that appropriate payment terms are observed (see section on Capital, be low ). In te rna t ional postal money orders may be used for import paymen ts, subject, in the case of payments to Switzerland, to a l im it of Lit 30,000 for each remitter and foreign beneficiary. Payments for Invisibles In principle, paymen ts abroad for invisibles require au thor iza t ion by the exchange control au thor i t ies. However, the au thor ized banks may sell fore ign exchange for paymen ts for invisibles provided that the necessary documents are submitted. Their au thor i ty to sell exchange for fam i ly rem i t tances is limited to Lit 300,000 a year, and approval of the UIC is required for t rans fe rs by I ta l ian imm ig ran ts if the amoun ts exceed cer ta in limits or if the t r an s f er is to a coun try other than the coun t ry of origin. Exchange is granted free ly for remittances of ea rn ings or investments. Resi- dents may use in te rna t ional postal money orders for payments, subject to a l im it of Lit 400,000 for each remitter and fo re ign benef ic iary. Paymen ts for services are governed by the same provisions regarding advance and deferred paymen ts as are paymen ts for imports. Certain transactions (but not the related paymen ts) in respect of services are subject to approval by the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade or the M in is t ry of Indus t ry. All contracts for insu rance of ships and a i rc ra ft must be approved by the M in is t ry of Indus try. Approval is also required for contracts in excess of Lit 5 million for services rendered by motion picture artists and tech- nicians who are not residents of an EC member country. In add i t ion, approval is required for the fol- lowing transactions if involving residents of countries that are not members of the IMF: repairs to ships and ITALY a i rc ra ft which are not urgent and necessary for safety of operation; expenditures in excess of Lit 5 m i l l ion a mon th incurred by press agencies and correspondents of dailies and periodicals; and contracts in excess of Lit 5 million for the services of company managers, self-employed persons, athletes, and entertainers other than motion picture artists and technicians. Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain f rom the banks exchange equivalent to Lit 1,100,000 a person a year for tourism, business, medical treatment, and education ( the corresponding amount for group travel also is Lit 1,100,000); authorized banks grant foreign exchange above these allowances (except for tou r i sm ), provided that they are satisfied that this is jus t if ied in view of the dura t ion and purpose of the trip. The limit on the amount of I ta l ian bankno tes that can be taken out is Lit 200,000.8 Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in fore ign bank- notes that they have previously declared upon en try, subject to a limit of the equivalent of Lit 300,000 a person if an oral declaration is made, as well as Lit 200,000 in I ta l ian banknotes. However, the export of Italian banknotes in denom ina t ions larger than Lit 50,000 is -prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any country of a few commodities in a special list (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for exports from Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a fo rm completed by the exporter is required; for exports exceeding Lit 2 million in value, an export document completed by an authorized bank is required (see footnote 7 ). If settlement takes place more than 360 days before exportation or more than 120 days a f ter expor ta t ion, the exporter must effect the paymen ts operations related to his export transactions through an authorized bank as his bank of domicile. Advance payments for exports may be received freely if exportation is to take place w i th in 360 days; in all other cases such receipts require the prior approval of the UIC. Deferred payments for exports are permitted if settlement of at least 90 per cent is to take place w i th in 120 days a f ter exportation, and the balance w i th in 24 months. For settlements between 120 and 360 days af ter exportation, the approval of the UIC is required. In all other cases such receipts require the prior approval either of the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade or of the Autonomous Agency for Export Credit Insurance ( SACE ), depending on whether the maximum delay granted to the foreign importer is longer or shorter than five years, and on whether the transaction will be covered by state insurance. All export proceeds must be surrendered to autho- 8 Persons living in border areas may not take out more than Lit 30,000 a day in domestic banknotes and coin, and the equivalent of Lit 50,000 a day in foreign notes and coin. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY rized banks within 15 days of effective receipt.9 Proceeds in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally convertible European currencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in "Foreign Exchange Accounts" for up to two weeks, during which period such balances may be used for per- mitted transactions or sold to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies to residents for authorized transactions or to negotiate them freely with the UIC or among themselves. In cases where documentation is not in order at the time of surrender, proceeds may be posted to "Ordinary Wait- ing Accounts" for a period of up to 30 days from the date of surrender. If the necessary documents are not received un t il af ter the 30-day waiting period, the proceeds must be assigned to the UIC upon completion of the transaction and will be converted into lire at the lowest exchange rate quoted dur ing the waiting period. Export proceeds may also be received by international postal money order, up to Lit 600,000 for each pay- ment, and in certain circumstances, in foreign bank- notes that are accepted in the country of issue for credit to bank accounts, balances in which are con- vertible at official market rates. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same collection, retention, and surrender requirements as receipts from exports. Shipping and insurance com- panies and travel and forwarding agencies may keep Operating Accounts (Conti Autorizzati) in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally con- vertible European currencies; unutilized balances must be surrendered periodically. Residents may not retain foreign banknotes left over f rom trips abroad above the equivalent of Lit 50,000 but must sell them to an authorized bank. Persons may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes and Lit 200,000 in Italian banknotes, in denominations not larger than Lit 50,000. Capital Inward and outward movements of nonresident capi- tal are free, but most loans from nonresidents to resi- dents and from residents to nonresidents require specific authorization from the Ministry of the Treasury or the Ministry of Foreign Trade, respectively; long-term loans (other than loans from financial institutions to non- residents) from member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) for establishing or maintaining lasting economic rela- tions, and loans to relatives up to the third degree of relationship do not require authorization. Short-term loans (up to one year and not exceeding Lit 250 mil- lion) and medium-term (up to five years and not exceeding Lit 250 million) financial loans (i.e., loans not connected with commercial operations or the performance of services) from EC countries also do 8 Effective April 19, 1982 the retention period for export proceeds was reduced from 15 days to 7 days. 250 not require authorization. Repayment of such loans may be made freely. A deposit requirement applies to outward transfers of resident-owned capital for direct investments, port- folio investments, financial loans, purchases of real estate, and personal capital movements. The transferor must lodge a lira deposit equivalent to 50 per cent of the amount transferred (25 per cent for certain investment fund securities, but mu tual funds investing entirely in Italian securities are exempt) in a noninterest-bearing account with the bank effecting the transfer. In addi- tion, when foreign investments are transferred between residents against lire, the transferee is subject to the deposit requirement, regardless of the date when the investment was made. The deposits are released only when, and to the extent that, disinvestment operations occur, and their release requires the prior approval of the Bank of Italy. Reinvestments of funds in new issues or on the secondary market are exempt if the original investment was made prior to July 27, 1973. Purchases by residents of certain bonds issued by speci- fied EC institutions are also exempt. Outward direct investment transactions have f rom time to time been given an ad hoc exemption. Foreign investment in Italy is, in principle, governed by Law No. 43 and subsequent implementing regula- tions. Foreign investments of any k ind, including both direct and portfolio investment and the purchase of real estate, are permitted freely, and no restrictions are applied to their repatriation. Direct investment in OECD countries by physical or jur id ical persons (other than participation by a financial institution that has its main office in Italy in a foreign company not having the same corporate purpose) is permitted in any fo rm and without any limit.10 Direct investment in other countries may be made only by juridical persons in firms that are in the same line of business as that of the Italian firm making the invest- ment and under the supervision of the UIC; other types of direct investment in such countries require special authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these investments also covers the reinvestment of earnings and the use for this purpose of the liquidation proceeds of previous investments (a f ter crediting the proceeds of the dis- investment to bank accounts similar to those established for proceeds from exports and invisibles; see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, above ). Residents are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of Italy or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on foreign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among them- selves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities, except securities of Lit 300,000 or less, have to be 10 Financial investment, i.e., investment not intended to establish permanent relations, is not considered direct investment. The regula- tions governing direct investment are also not applicable to participa- tions in "holdings" abroad of any kind. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution deposited w i th an I ta l ian bank or with a bank abroad for account of an I ta l ian bank. The purchase by resi- dents of shares of fo re ign financial institutions of any kind ( inc lud ing mu tual f u n d s ), as well as convertible bonds issued by such institutions, requires prior approval by the UIC. In practice, however, a resident is able to purchase freely shares of fore ign funds that have received authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Trade to sell their shares in Italy, since that authorization is valid also for the ind iv idual resident subscriber. Such au thor iza t ion is given only to funds meeting certain requirements, inc lud ing the investment of at least 50 per cent of the ir por tfo l io in Italian securities and the establishment of a branch office in Italy. Residents do not require authorization to pur- chase real estate in EC countries. All issues of securities by nonres iden ts on the Italian capital market require the prior approval of the M in is try of Foreign Trade and are subject to the rules governing the issue of domestic securities. These rules include the prior approval of the Bank of Italy and, for issues above Lit 500 m i l l ion, that of the M in is try of the Treasury, the M in i s t ry of Indus t ry, and the Inter- m in is ter ial Credit Committee. Issues are norma l ly restricted to in te rna t ional ins t i tu t ions. Transfers in connection w i th donations, inheritances, and dowries may be made freely. The t rans fer of property of residents leaving I ta ly pe rmanen t ly is allowed in two stages: the equivalent of Lit 5 million a person is allowed upon presentation of specified docu- ments to an authorized bank at the time of leaving Italy, and the remainder is subject to examination of the documents by the UIC, when residence has been estab- lished abroad. In relations w i th EC countries, the reciprocal gran t ing of credits for commercial transac t ions or the perfor- mance of services, with a m a tu r i ty longer than the time limits that banks are authorized to approve and up to five years, may be effected a f ter exam ina t ion of the documents by the UIC. This applies also in relations with Austria, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland. Loans and credits ( the la t ter only beyond a certain du ra t ion, generally 180-360 days) not connected with commercial transactions or with the performance of services require the approval of the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade and are severely restricted. However, financial loans may be granted to or by residents of EC countries as indicated above. The export of Italian and foreign securities is per- mitted only when they are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, or externally convertible Euro- pean currencies, or against funds on a Foreign Account or a Capital Account. Gold Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in Italy, with the exception of unrefined gold ITALY imported under m in is ter ial license for indus t r ial pur- poses. The monetary authorities may freely acquire unrefined gold abroad. Agent banks may acquire unref ined gold abroad upon submission of licenses issued by the M in is try of Foreign Trade to Italian firms for industrial use. Exports of w rought and semimanu- fac tu red gold, other than jewe lry, are subject to licens- ing. Imports of unref ined gold are not subject to value-added tax but such a tax is applied to subsequent sales; at the end of 1980 th is rate was 15 per cent. Importation and exportation of gold coins that are legal tender in a foreign country are prohibited in the absence of a special au thor iza t ion. Imports of other gold coins for num isma t ic purposes are subject to va lue- added tax at 18 per cent. Changes during 1981 March 23. The central rates for the lira in the EMS were adjusted downward by 6 per cent. March 12. A M in is ter ial Decree consolidating exist- ing fore ign exchange regulations was published in the Official Gazette, to take effect in 90 days. In addition to minor technical changes to ex is t ing regulations, the provisions of the decree included the fo l low ing regula- tions: (a) au thor iza t ion was gran ted for residents of the Italian foreign exchange area to accept guarantees f rom persons outside the area; ( b) the limit on advance payments for imports w i thout secur ing fo re ign currency financing f rom authorized banks was raised to Lit 2.5 million; (c) the amount of fore ign banknotes that nonresident travelers may take out of the country w i thout documentation was raised to the equ iva lent of Lit 300,000; and ( d) the amount of fore ign securities that Italian residents may hold w i thout depositing them with an authorized bank was raised to Lit 300,000. May 28. An advance deposit requirement was imposed on most exchange payments abroad, equivalent to 30 per cent of the value of the t ransac t ion, to be posted in a noninterest-bearing deposit for 90 days. Among the current and capital transactions exempted f rom the requ irement were imports of wheat and petro- leum, all paymen ts not exceeding Lit 100,000, and payments of scheduled amor t iza t ion and interest on fore ign loans. (This regulation was in i t ia l ly scheduled to lapse a f ter f o ur months —see en t ry for September 30, below.) June 19. The list of items exempted f rom the advance deposit requirement imposed on May 28 was expanded to include, in ter alia, fre ight payments and lend ing by Italian residents in foreign currencies. July 24. Payments for imports of iron and steel products were exempted f rom the advance deposit requirement. September 17. It was announced that, effective Janua ry 1, 1982, exchange control fo rms would no longer be required for imports and exports valued at less than Lit 5 million. (Previously, forms were not required for amounts below Lit 1 million.) 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY September 30. The advance deposit requirement introduced on May 28, 1981 was extended until the end of February 1982, but made subject to phased elimination from 30 per cent to 25 per cent on Octo- ber 1, 1981; to 20 per cent on January 1, 1982; to 15 per cent on February 1, 1982; and to fu ll termina- tion at the end of February 1982. (The requirement was in fact terminated on February 8, 1982.) In addi- tion, effective October 1, 1981 products subject to the EC Common Agricultural Policy, as well as certain energy products and some nonferrous metals, were exempted from the deposit requirement. October 5. The central rates of the lira in the EMS were adjusted downward by 3 per cent. October 27. Imports of books were exempted from the advance deposit requirement. 252 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ivory Coast is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French f ranc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buy ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French f ranc and the CFA f ranc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill on transfers from countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, and one of 2.50 per mill on transfers to such countries.2 Banks and the postal sys- tem also levy a commission on t rans fe rs to all countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or sudsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exeption of measures re la t ing to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, the exchange con- trol measures of Ivory Coast do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Depar tmen ts and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of External Finance and Credit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any information necessary to compile the bal- ance of paymen ts statistics, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Admin- istration, and notaries public. All exchange transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Since Ivory Coast is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are nor- i rT he CFA f r anc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de PA f r ique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agen- cies of the BCEAO. mally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usally effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Ab id jan by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is pro- hibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO banknotes that are mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited (e.g., wheat, flour, and a speci- fied type of coffee-husking machine) or subject to import license thereby requiring prior authorization (e.g., paints, matches, detergents, iron or steel tubes, man-made fabrics, articles of leather, footwear, and c a rp e t s ); as noted below, certain other import items are subject to annual volume quotas. Imports of rice depend on domestic production, since they are intended as a supp lemen tary means of satisfying domestic demand; such imports take place on the basis of an in terna t ional invitation to bid. All other imports may be made freely from any country; however, when valued f.o.b. at CFAF 100,000 or more they are subject to the submission of a declaration of intent to import, and when the value f.o.b. exceeds CFAF 1.5 million or more they are subject to mandatory preshipment inspection by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva, in order to control their price, quantity, and quality. Tariffs have been raised for certain goods that compete with local production and, in the case of some goods, have been supplemented by annual vol- ume quotas. Special ceilings have been set for selected imports from certain countries having low production costs with which the trade balance has been consis- ten t ly in large deficit. These quotas and ceilings are reviewed annually. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000; transactions of lower value also must be domiciled with an authorized bank if a financial transaction is to be under taken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attes- 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST tations entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before ship- ment, if a documentary credit is opened, or only on the due date of payment, if the commodities have already been imported. Effective June 15, 1981 foreign exchange for import payments must be purchased either on the settlement date specified in the commercial contract or at the time when the required downpayment is made. Spot foreign exchange cover is limited to imports effected by means of documentary credits; the trans- action must be domiciled with an authorized inter- mediary, and shipment of goods must be within eight days of the exchange transaction. Forward cover for imports in eligible cases must not extend beyond one month for certain specified goods and three months for goods designated as essential commodities; no renewal of cover is possible. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are also per- mitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Any resident may make payments abroad freely, at any time, through an authorized bank, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a month without sub- mitting any documentation. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation for tourism of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a year (CFAF 87,500 for children under t en ). For business travel a special foreign exchange alloca- tion is authorized up to a maximum of CFAF 20,000 a day and CFAF 400,000 a trip. Any foreign exchange rema in ing in excess of CFAF 5,000 a f ter return to Ivory Coast must be surrendered. The transfer of the fu ll basic salary of a foreigner working in Ivory Coast is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and non- resident travelers to foreign countries may take out BCEAO banknotes up to CFAF 25,000. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes; however, if they travel to a country that is not a member of the West A f r ican Monetary Union, the amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers to foreign countries may freely take out foreign banknotes and coin up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any travelers checks, etc., issued abroad. Subject to documentation, they may also 254 take out any amount of travelers checks, etc., in foreign currency established in their name a f ter conversion of foreign currency into CFA francs, or drawn against a Foreign Account in Francs, or in a foreign currency in Ivory Coast. Nonresidents who have made a currency declaration upon entry or are able to show the proper bank ing notices may take out larger amounts. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declaration only. Exports of certain processed and unprocessed agricultural commodities, however, require the visa of the Directorate of External Trade. The due date for payment in respect of exports to foreign countries, including those in the French Franc Area, must not be later than 180 days af ter the arrival of the goods at their destination. Regardless of the currency of settlement and the buy ing country, export receipts must be col- lected and repatriated through authorized intermediary banks within one month of the due date. Regardless of destination, all export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign banknotes or other foreign means of payment must sell any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an authorized bank within eight days and must make a declaration to the customs upon entry. Capital Capital movements between Ivory Coast and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over foreign inward direct investment, over all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for sale of fore ign securities in Ivory Coast. Such opera- tions require prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance as do issues by Ivory Coast companies. Exempt f rom authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Ivory Coast Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertis- ing, or o f fe r ing for sale in Ivory Coast has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above ), Monaco, member countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Ivory Coast require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance.3 Foreign direct investments in Ivory Coast,4 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. Effective June 15, 1981 at least 75 per cent of investments abroad by residents of Ivory Coast must be financed by borrowing abroad. The l iqu ida t ion of investments, whether direct investments or not, in Ivory Coast or abroad must similarly be reported in advance to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Ivory Coast investments abroad or foreign investments in Ivory Coast, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days fo l low ing each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans taken up by indus tr ial firms to finance transactions abroad, to finance imports into or exports from Ivory Coast, or by approved international trading houses to finance in terna t ional merchanting transactions; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and ( 3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual 3 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Ivory Coast and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies resident in Ivory Coast. 4 Including those made in Ivory Coast by companies that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Ivory Coast of foreign companies. IVORY COAST interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans constituting a direct investment is subject to the formalities prescribed for the liquidation of direct investments. The repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authorization. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 provides tax and customs duty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as having priority status. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Ivory Coast. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance, which is rarely granted. Exempt f rom this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated ar t ic les); and ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1981 March 25. Ministry of Commerce Order (arret) No. 038 was issued, raising f rom CFAF 100,000 to CFAF 500,000 the m in imum f.o.b. value of imports of "essential" goods for which a declaration of intent to import was required. The m in imum f.o.b. value of imports above which preshipment inspection by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva would be mandatory was also increased from CFAF 500,000 to CFAF 1.5 million. March 30. Imports of writing pads for schools were prohibited, irrespective of origin. June 15. The Directorate of Finance in the Ministry of Economy and Finance issued four foreign exchange regulations (Nos. 657, 658, 659, and 660), which pro- vided successively as follows: (a) Foreign exchange for import payments would be required to be purchased either on the settlement date specified in the commercial contract or at the time when the required downpayment was made. ( b) Spot foreign exchange cover is limited to imports effected by means of documentary credit; the transaction would be required to be domiciled with an authorized intermediary, and shipment of goods would be required within eight days of the exchange transaction. (c) Forward cover for imports in eligible cases could not extend beyond one month for List A goods and three months for List B (or "essential") goods. (d) At least 75 per cent of investments abroad by residents of Ivory Coast would be required to be financed by borrowing abroad. July 8. Decree No. 81-554 was issued with imme- 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST diate effect, extending the list of commodities subject to import licensing, with the exception of those from member countries of the West African Monetary Union. December 13. In an amendment to Circular No. 038 of March 25, 1981, Notice No. 81-0019 was issued, limiting to CFAF 100,000 the minimum f.o.b. value of imports of "essential" goods for which a declaration of intent to import was required. 256 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, which are identical except for the commission mentioned below were J$ 1.781423 = US$1. The intervention cur- rency is the U.S. dollar, and Jamaica avails itself of wider margins. There are no taxes on sales of foreign exchange. The Bank of Jamaica's dealings against Jamaica dol- lars are confined to transactions in certain ma jor cur- rencies.1 The Bank of Jamaica sets da i ly official buy ing and selling rates for dealings with the banks on the basis of the previous day's closing quotations in New York or London. The Bank also fixes daily rates at which commercial banks must deal with their customers. For spot dealings with commercial banks in the major currencies, the Bank of Jamaica charges no commission on purchases but 0.0625 per cent is charged on sales. The commercial banks apply a commission charge of 0.375 per cent on sales of non-CARicoM currencies and a discount charge of 0.125 per cent on purchases of these currencies. For CARICOM currencies, the com- mercial banks apply a commission charge of 0.25 per cent on sales and a discount charge of 0.25 per cent on purchases. Jamaica forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange control on behalf of the Minister of Finance, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Minister is required. The commercial banks are desig- nated as authorized dealers. Except for the allowance for tourist travel, for which the commercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange, payments under the Special Retained Account, and transfers from Exter- nal Accounts, all foreign exchange payments require the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. Com- mercial banks act only as agents of the Bank of Jamaica; they sell foreign exchange receipts to the Bank of Jamaica and in tu rn purchase foreign exchange from the Bank of Jamaica against documentation. Import licenses are issued by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the M in is ter of Indus try and Commerce. 1 Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and the currencies of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM ). The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Bar- buda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an External Account or in any for- eign currency.2 Receipts f rom all countries must be received by debit of an External Account or in any fore ign currency. Nonresident Accounts The commercial banks are empowered to open Exter- nal Accounts in Jamaica dollars for nonresidents, pro- vided that no credit of Jamaica dollars is made to the accounts without the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. The funds on these accounts may be trans- ferred freely between nonresidents. External Accounts may be credited with paymen ts by residents of Jamaica that have been approved by the exchange control authorities, with t rans fe rs f rom other External Accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for paymen ts to residents of Jamaica, for trans- fers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts which are credited w i th funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents of Jamaica ( inc lud ing the proceeds f rom the sale of unde- veloped l a n d) are designated Blocked Accounts. Blocked f u n ds may be used without limitation by nonresidents for local expenditure while they are in Jamaica, and for investment in Jamaica dollar securities or local mort- gages. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts in excess of J$5,000 a calendar year, for use in Jamaica by the nonres ident owner, must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. As an exception to the surrender requirements for fore ign exchange, approved importers may open special foreign exchange accounts in commercial banks in Jamaica; payments f rom such accounts can be made only for authorized expenditures. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts or ig ina t ing in South A f r ica are prohibited. A small number of goods may be imported freely f rom v i r tua l ly all sources under an open general license.3 All other imports require specific licenses, irrespective of origin. For some goods, licenses are not normally issued unless they originate in member countries of the CARicoM.4 Imports are subject, in pr inc ip le, to a global 2 All currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered fore ign currencies. All foreign currencies have been designated as specified currenc ies. 3 For these goods, the open general license applies to all coun tr ies except South A f r ica. Goods imported under the license must be consigned f rom one of the permitted countries and must also originate in a permitted coun try. 4 For import licensing purposes, the Bahamas CARICOM member country. is treated as a 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA annual ceiling. Certain food items may be imported only by a public sector agency, the Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation. Payments for imports are subject to prior registration with the Bank of Jamaica, and all paymen ts for imports are subject to the licensing requirements, if any, being met; the importer must present a copy of the settlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and value, together with documentary evidence that the goods either have been shipped or are about to be shipped or that he is under contract to make prepayment up to six months prior to shipment; specific exchange control approval is required for advance payments. Certain goods are subject to a consumption tax, whether they are imported or manu fac tu red domes- tically. In addition, a 10 per cent stamp du ty tax is applied to imports, with the exception of government imports, basic food items, crude petroleum, fuel for utility companies, imports f rom CARICOM countries, and most raw materials. These taxes are collected at the port of entry and are calculated on the sum of the value accepted for customs and the customs duty. Cer- tain import payments have been delayed. These arrears have been centralized, and the Bank of Jamaica is in the process of settling them in accordance with certain priorities. In December 1978 the authorities initiated a scheme whereby, within certain limits, priority for access to foreign exchange is granted to those importers who qualify for "certified exporter status." Access to that status is linked to past and projected export perfor- mance and to the local value-added content of the exported product. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange is not, as a rule, made available for remittances of income f rom emigrants' property in Jamaica, remittances for family maintenance, and cash gifts. In the case of t rans fe rs from emigrants' income and paymen ts for fam i ly maintenance, limited exceptions may be approved by the Minister of Finance on human i tar ian grounds. All interest and dividends payable to nonresident investors are approved net of taxation. Certain current payments have been delayed; these arrears also have been cen- tralized, and the Bank of Jamaica is in the process of settling them in accordance with certain priorities. A basic exchange allowance of US$55 a person for each calendar year for foreign travel other than for business or professional reasons is made available to residents by authorized dealers. The sale of foreign exchange for travel for business and professional rea- sons is subject to the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica and to daily limits of US$150 a day for the United States and US$175 a day for Europe. The num- 258 ber of days for which the approval is granted is deter- mined on the merits of each case. Expenses for hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc., that are settled in Jamaica in domestic currency must be deducted from the travel allocation. Non-Jamaicans working in Jamaica under a work permit are allowed to remit abroad 30 per cent of their gross salary during the period of their contract and their accumulated assets at the end of the contract period. Residents going abroad may take w i th them Jamaica bankno tes not exceeding J$20 and other bankno tes not exceeding the equivalent of J$50. Bona fide requests for additional amoun ts are approved by the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents may take out the fore ign cur- rency notes they brought in. All visitors to Jamaica carrying more than US$500 or its equivalent must declare the foreign exchange they b r ing in or take out of Jamaica. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods valued at not more than J$300 (f .o .b .) may be freely exported by post or air express to any coun t ry not on the prohibited list.5 Where the value exceeds J$300, the goods may still be exported to all countries except those on the prohibited list, but a specific license is required for the export of certain agr icu l tural products, ammun i t ion, explosives, firearms, antique fu rn i tu r e, ready-made garments, gold bullion, mineral and metal ores, and antique paintings. Exporters are required to surrender their exchange proceeds to authorized dealers within three months from the date of shipment. However, with the approval of the exchange control authorities, certain exporters may re ta in an agreed portion of their settlement of overseas commitments, as may be necessary for their operations; such retained export proceeds must not be sold to other nonbank residents. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in fo re ign currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Residents re tu rn ing to Jamaica may bring in Jamaica banknotes up to J$20 a traveler, provided that this amount was declared on leaving the country, and all travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return. Tourists are required to settle their hotel bills in foreign currencies, unless they can prove that they had purchased w i th foreign currency an equivalent amount of Jamaica dollars from an authorized bank in Jamaica. Capital Outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted, irrespective of their destination. Investments abroad 5 The list comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Poland, Roman ia, South Africa, and U.S.S.R. Exports to these countries require specific licenses. In practice, no licenses are issued for exports to South Africa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by residents and the purchase of local assets by resi- dents from nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control authorities and are not approved, unless they result in tangible benefits for Jamaica. For- eign exchange is not made available to residents to make cash gifts to nonresidents. With the exception of certain types of investment in real estate, all approved direct investments in Jamaica by nonresidents are granted "approved status," under which the investor is given written assurance that he will at any time be able to repatriate his original invest- ment plus any capital gain. In order to obtain approved status, the investor must apply to the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents are normally not permitted to take up security in respect of loans made to Jamaican com- panies owned or controlled by them. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents and to nonresident-controlled companies is subject to selective credit controls; for this purpose, firms are considered to be nonresident-con- trolled when the controlling interest is held beneficially, either directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the CARICOM area. Such lending is subject to approval by the Bank of Jamaica. In general, non-Jamaican nonresidents are not per- mitted to raise local mortgages. However, nonresidents working in Jamaica under a work permit may acquire a house to live in, with the permissible amount of mort- gage restricted to 50 per cent. Foreign nonresident owners of land in Jamaica, when selling to residents, are allowed to remit from Jamaica in the first instance, the amount they paid originally f rom funds brought into Jamaica; the balance of the sale price can be remitted annua l ly in ten equal installments, subject to a maximum remittance in any one year of J$ 10,000, except where the owner had received a previous under- taking that the investment in land carried "approved status." Foreign nonresident owners of houses built on residential lots are treated similarly, provided that the nonresident seller can sa t isfy the Bank of Jamaica as to the amount spent in Jamaica in acquiring the lot and constructing the building. Except for special cases, which may be approved by the Minister of Finance on human i ta r ian grounds, no foreign exchange is made available for remittances of capital or income to Jamaican nationals who have emi- grated abroad and to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies. JAMAICA Between J anu a ry 1977 and March 1979 principal payments for pr iva te nongua ran teed debt were not be ing released. App l ica t ions received up to June 1978 for the remittance of principal were placed in the Deposit Scheme and were released between April and December 1979. The balance of ou ts tand ing private nongua ran teed debt has been consolidated with repay- ment scheduled over a 70-month period which began in Janua ry 1980. Gold Commemorative gold coins in denom ina t ions of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, resi- dents other than the mone tary au thor i t ies and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Finance; such licenses are not no rma l ly g ran ted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and indu s t r ial users. All commercial imports of jewelry require import licenses. Changes during 1981 April 27. As an exception to the su r render require- ment for foreign exchange, approved importers were permitted to open special retained foreign exchange accounts in commercial banks in Jamaica; but the excep- tion did not apply to fore ign exchange acquired f rom the following sources: (a) exports; (b) receipts for services performed in Jamaica, such as f rom tourism; (c) proceeds of fore ign loans; and (d) proceeds f rom investments made in Jamaica by persons not resident in Jamaica. Payments f rom the special re ta ined fore ign exchange accounts could only be made for authorized expenditures. May 1. The limit on the release by the commercial banks of funds f rom Blocked Accounts without refer- ence to the Bank of Jamaica was increased from J$ 1,000 to J$5,000. June 1. The foreign exchange allowance for travel for business and professional reasons was increased from US$100 to US$125 a day for the United States and f rom US$135 to US$175 a day for Europe. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Japan is the Japanese Yen. The authorities of Japan do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions and exchange rates are deter- mined, in principle, on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. How- ever, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the markets. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The interbank rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1981 was ¥ 220.25 per US$1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions with nonresident banks and among themselves; their forward transactions with resident customers must have unde r- lying authorized transactions. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated mainly by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (M IT I ), and the Bank of Japan acting as the Government's agent. Most of the author- ity for verifying normal payments is, however, delegated to authorized banks referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import and export reporting requirements are handled by the MITI. Inward direct investments are under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance and other appropriate ministers. Outward direct investment requires prior notice to the Bank of Japan, as agent for the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any cur- rency, including yen, and receipts also may be obtained in any currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in yen may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. There are no restrictions on credits to or payments f rom these accounts, and balances may be converted freely into any foreign currency. Payment of interest on balances in such accounts may be restricted when it is deemed necessary to prevent drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate of the yen. Imports and Import Payments Imports can be freely made, with the exception of specifically restricted items. The Import Restriction System covers 73 items, 27 of which have been notified to the GATT as residual restrictions, while the remain- ing items have been notified as falling under the state 260 trading, national security, public health, and moral pro- tection provisions of the GATT. For the restricted items, once the importer has obtained au tho r iza t ion from the MITI, he receives an import quo ta cer t if ica te that entitles him to receive an import license f rom an autho- rized foreign exchange bank au toma t ica l ly upon applica- tion. For the importation of certain other goods from specified countries or shipping areas, ind iv idual authori- zation must be obtained from the MITI. Items under state t rad ing include certain da i ry prod- ucts, certain cereals, salt, raw s i lk, raw and manu- fac tu red tobacco, poppy s traw, raw op ium, and ethyl and denatured alcohol. Payment for imports may be effected up to one year before the import declaration or a f ter customs clear- ance. Longer settlement periods requ ire the prior approval of the MITI. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made w i thout any limitation, subject to verification by fore ign exchange banks. Gifts and donations to nonres iden ts (except relatives abroad) exceeding ¥ 5 m i l l ion are referred to the Bank of Japan, which approves the payment after ver ify ing its au then t ic i ty. However, rem i t tances to rela- tives abroad, as well as other cu r rent payments for invisibles, such as the purchase of foreign currencies in connection with travel abroad, may be made without limit. Both residents and nonresidents may acquire foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Japan and may take out freely any amount in any fore ign currency; in the case of Japanese yen, the freely exportable limit is ¥ 5 million. Overseas deposits by resident individuals up to the equivalent of ¥ 3 million are subject to auto- matic approval by the Bank of Japan. Qualified Japa- nese enterprises in insurance, transpor ta t ion, securities, etc., are permitted to acquire overseas deposits under blanket licensing from the Bank of Japan. Exports and Export Proceeds Export restraint may be exercised by v i r tue of the Export and Import Transactions Law and an Export Trade Control Order issued under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export restraint may be applied either globally or to specified destinations, and it may cover export volume, or export prices, or other conditions. Exports of passenger cars to the Un i ted States are subject to quan t i ta t ive limits for the two-year period ending April 30, 1983 and w i ll be mon i to red on a monthly basis for a 12-month period thereafter. Exports of passenger cars to certain other ma jor marke ts were expected to be lower than in the previous year. At the end of 1981, there were 61 export cartels under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Of these, 46 required prior notice of exporters' agree- ments in respect of export transactions, 15 required prior approval of manufac turers' agreements on domes- tic transactions in goods for export, and 9 were rein- forced by an export transactions license requirement. In addition, 205 items were subject to license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law, in order to control their export to specified socialist coun- tries, or because of short supply in the domestic market (e.g., tungsten o re ), or to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., on sewing machines and certain textiles). Exports under process- ing contracts and exports for which settlement is under the "special" method also require individual licenses. Exports to Iran other than food and medicines and exports of specified raw materials for foreign process- ing and reimport require individual licenses; "special" settlement methods are those effected by means of open account or those involving payment later than one year after shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may generally be accepted without a license. Residents as well as nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in Japanese or fo re ign currency. Capital Capital transactions are permitted unless specifically restricted. Such specific restrictions may take the form of requiring ( 1) prior approval; (2) prior notice with a waiting period, dur ing which the Minister or Ministers concerned may request or order that the transaction be suspended or its particulars be modified on the basis of prescribed criteria; or (3) prior notice without a wait- ing period. Other transactions are normally free, although in many cases must be reported. Under emer- gency conditions, most capital transactions not subject to specific restrictions may be subjected to prior approval; emergency conditions are defined as situa- tions where a capital transaction might ( 1) make the maintenance of equilibrium in Japan's balance of pay- ments d i f f icu l t; (2) result in drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate; or ( 3) result in an international flow of funds large enough to adversely affect Japan's money or capital market. A distinction is made between direct investment in Japan and other capital transactions. Besides majority equity ownership of enterprises or establishment of branch operations, other types of investment that come under the direct investment regulations include (1) any acquisition of shares in unlisted companies; ( 2) acqui- sition of 10 per cent or more of the shares of a listed company by a single foreign investor; and ( 3) acquisi- tion of loans of more than one-year ma tu r i ty or securi- ties privately placed in Japan, under certain circum- stances. Any change of business objectives of a company with more than one-third foreign ownership is also sub- JAPAN ject to the provisions for direct investment. Requests or orders for suspension or modification of specific aspects of the transaction may be made if the Minister or Ministers concerned consider the transaction to have adverse implications for national security, public order, public safety, the activities of Japanese enterprises in related lines of activities, the general performance of the economy, or for the ma in tenance of mu tual equality of t rea tment of direct investment with other countries. As a trans i t ional measure, Japanese enterprises may be "designated" by the Minister concerned if a large degree of foreign ownership m ight be considered likely to have adverse implications for na t ional security, pub l ic order, public safety, or the performance of the economy. For such designated enterprises, any fore ign acquisi- tion of stock that would raise the proportion of fore ign ownership above a stated level (generally 25 per cen t) would be subject to provisions s im i lar to those for direct investment regulations. Acquisition of securities for por tfo l io through desig- nated securities firms can be free ly made, but acquisi- tion of such securities through securities firms other than the designated ones requires prior notice w i thout a wait- ing period. Issues of securities abroad by Japanese enterprises (or guarantees related to such issues) or nonresident acquisition of real estate in Japan other than for personal use are subject to prior notice with a 20-day waiting period. Transactions requiring prior notice with a 20-day wa i t ing period may be subjected by the M in is ter of Finance to suspension or modification if in his opinion the transaction m ight adversely affect ( 1) domestic and in te rna t ional money marke ts, (2) Ja- pan's international reputation, (3) business activities of a sector of the Japanese industries or the smooth per- formance of the national economy, and (4) implemen- tation of Japan's international agreements, in terna t ional peace and security, or the ma in tenance of public order. Prior approval is required for the issue of Euro-yen bonds by nonresidents. Other transactions by non- residents may be generally carried out freely. Outward investments by residents in the fo rm of loans, usance exceeding one year, issue of yen-denominated bonds in Japan by nonresidents, and direct investment abroad are subject to prior notice with a 20-day wa i t ing period. The criteria for suspension or modification of specific aspects of such transactions are as in the preceding paragraph. Foreign currency deposits overseas by residents and borrowing and lending in foreign cur- rency between residents require prior approval. Other external transactions by residents may normally be carried out freely. Foreign exchange banks are subject ind iv idua l ly to controls over their overall net position in foreign cur- rency (their oversold or overbought po s i t ion ), and limits are also applied to the net spot oversold position. Foreign loans by banks are legally subject to prior notice with a waiting period, but in most cases they can be made upon notification. Foreign exchange banks are free 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN to accept foreign currency deposits f rom residents and nonresidents and to make foreign currency loans to residents; foreign currency or yen deposits of non- residents as well as residents are subject to minimum reserve requirements adjusted f rom time to time by the Bank of Japan. Foreign banks are licensed to operate in Japan subject to Japanese bank ing regulations; they may obtain resources from inward remittances of foreign currency as well as f rom money markets in Japan. Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may f ree ly hold gold and purchase and sell it in domestic transactions. The import and export of gold bullion is free from licensing, but such transactions requ ire notifi- cation to a foreign exchange bank or customs house. Futures trading in gold other than by designated com- panies is subject to exchange controls. Changes during 1981 In addition to the measures listed below, the fo l low ing other changes occurred during the year: (a) the sus- pension of private placement of bonds in Japan by nonresidents imposed in 1979 was l i f ted; and (b) in a relaxation of existing rules by the M in is try of Finance, Japanese banks were allowed to guarantee their overseas subsidiaries' bond issues in foreign capital markets, and authorization was granted for the subsidiaries to issue bonds in foreign markets of the ir choice. January 26. Japan and Canada agreed to allow their commercial banks to open a total of five branches in each other's country in 1981. The agreement stipulates that two more bank branches each will be opened by the end of 1982. February 1. The Bank of Japan raised the reserve requirement ratios for foreign currency deposits by residents. The ratio was raised f rom 0.25 per cent to 0.5 per cent for t ime deposits, which account for the bu lk of foreign currency deposits, and from 0.25 per cent to 1.25 per cent for other types of deposits. (The ratios for fore ign and Japanese currency deposits of nonresidents remained unchanged .) February 10. The ban on the export of C-type fuel oil imposed in 1979 was lifted. March 17. The Bank of Japan established a special lending rate mechanism for lending short-term funds to the country's leading commercial banks at interest rates higher than the official discount rate, in order to dis- courage, inter alia, capital outflows induced by widening interest rate d i f fe ren t ia ls with other ma jor industrial countries that are likely to result in a depreciation of the yen. (This provision has so far not been activated .) April 1. Application of the GSP scheme was extended by Japan for another ten-year period and modified as fo l lows: (a) enlargement of the size of imports sub- ject to preferen t ial treatment, owing to the adoption of 1977 instead of 1975 as the base year for the calcu- 262 la t ion of basic ceiling quotas; and (b) in troduc t ion of d i f fe ren t ial application of preferences, under which par t icu lar beneficiaries may in certain circumstances be excluded f rom p re fe ren t ial trea tment in respect of a pa r t icu lar product. April 1. Japan reduced impo rt du t ies on m anu f a c tu r ed tobacco products and certain motor vehicle parts and accessories. April 1. The reserve requ i rement for time deposits in foreign currency by residents was reduced from 0.5 per cent to 0.375 per cent, and for other resident deposits f rom 1.25 per cent to 0.5 per cent. (The per- centage for nonresident deposits in fore ign and Japanese currencies remained unchanged .) April 15. Imports of ham, bacon, and sausage f rom the Un i ted K ingdom (exc lud ing No r the rn I re land) were prohibited for an inde f in i te period, for hea l th reasons. May 1. The Government of Japan announced the decision to vo lun ta r i ly limit Japan's passenger car exports to the United States for a three-year period s ta r t ing f rom April 1, 1981. In the first year of the r e s t r a in t, passenger car exports to the United States will be limited to 1.68 million un i ts, or 7.7 per cent below the level of exports in the previous year. Exports du r ing the second year will be 1.68 million un i ts plus 16.5 per cent of the increase in car sales in the United States; thereaf ter, exports w i ll be mon i tored on a mon th ly basis un t il March 1984. May 1. Following consultations between Japan and New Zealand and in response to a surp lus of domes- t ica l ly produced bu t ter in Japan, New Zealand agreed to vo lun ta r i ly reduce exports of compound bu t ter to Japan by about 10 per cent f rom the 1980 level. May 25. The Diet approved, w i th effect from April 1, 1982, a bill amending the Bank ing Law of 1927; credit associations will be allowed to hand le fo re ign exchange operations, and banks and securities companies will be authorized to buy and sell in the domestic market commercial paper and cer t if ica tes of deposit issued abroad. May 28. The M in is t ry of F inance in fo rm ed Japanese banks that their overseas branch offices may free ly lend to nonresidents Japanese cu r rency held overseas as deposits (Eu ro -yen) for one year or less to finance in te rna t ional trade. May 28. By means of a revision to the pertinent M in is t ry of F inance ord inance, fo re ign exchange con- trols on fu tu r es t rad ing in gold were generally relaxed and, in specified cases, were l i f ted. June 7. The Japanese Ministry of In te rna t ional Trade and Indus try informed Canada of the forecast that the export of Japanese passenger cars to Canada dur ing the fiscal year ending in March 1982 would not exceed the level of such exports to Canada in 1980 by more than 10 per cent. July 9. A f ter ano ther round of the ta lks in i t ia ted in 1975 between the British Society of Motor Manu- facturers and Traders and the Japanese Automobile ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Manufacturers Association, the latter stated its intention to continue to recommend prudent marketing policies to its members in order to avoid disrupting the British car market. August 10. Japan set a quota for commercial van exports to the United States at 82,500 units for the fiscal year ending March 1982; an export quota of 70,000 units of cars and commercial vans was also established for Puerto Rico. September 22. Trade in gold bullion between resi- dents and nonresidents was classified as a capital trans- action for the purposes of Article 20 of the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. September 30. Japan and the United States agreed to accelerate tariff reductions on semiconductors to the final concession rates of the Tokyo Round of Multi- lateral Trade Negotiations. The reductions were sched- uled to be completed by 1987. December 7. The beef import quota for the second half of the fiscal year 1981/82 was reduced by 6.4 per cent compared with the same period in the fiscal year 1980/81. December 16. Japan decided to introduce the follow- ing measures: (a) opening up the domestic market through improved import testing procedures and easing of import restrictions; (b) foreign currency lending as a temporary measure for emergency imports, together with an increase of about 1.5 million kiloliters in government-owned oil stocks du r ing fiscal year 1981/82 and promotion of private stockpiling of raw materials; and (c) efforts, inter alia, to avoid excessive concentra- tion of exports of specific products. 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jordan is the Jordan Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at JD 0.388 = SDR 1. The middle rate of the Jordan dinar for the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, is determined by the Central Bank of Jordan on the basis of the daily calculations of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1981 the buy ing and selling rates of the Central Bank for the U.S. dollar were US$2.9411 and US$2.9586, respec- tively, per JD 1, and those for sterling were ,£ stg. 1.5372 and <£ stg. 1.5466, respectively, per JD 1. Buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are fixed on the basis of the appropriate cross rates in international financial markets. A fee of 0.10 per cent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Central Bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institutions. Forward exchange transactions in U.S. dollars against the Jordan d inar are permitted in specified cases. For corporations or projects of v i tal national interest, the Central Bank may offer a fo rwa rd fac i l i ty in respect of forward exchange cover by Jordanian banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank, which also issues exchange permits; the Central Bank has delegated to authorized banks the issuance of exchange permits for import payments and, within per- mitted annual limits, for payments for educational expenses of Jordanians studying abroad and for various other purposes. An Import Committee comprising representatives of the Ministries of Industry and Trade and of Finance and Customs and of the Central Bank reviews import policy. In addition, an Economic Security Committee is empowered to amend existing regulations or issue new ones concerning economic policy. Prescription of Currency All settlements in respect of trade with Turkey must be made in U.S. dollars through clearing accounts under a special reciprocal line of credit in U.S. dollars between the Central Banks of Jordan and Turkey.2 Payments to other countries may be made in any currency.3 Pro- ceeds f rom exports (except those of Jordanian goods to neighboring Arab countries or, excluding f ru i ts and vegetables, up to JD 500 to other countries and re- exported goods of foreign origin up to JD 1,500 in 1 Belgian f rancs, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 The arrangement for reciprocal clearing accounts between Jordan and Turkey was scheduled for termination on May 10, 1982. 3 A bilateral paymen ts agreement with Egypt has been suspended. 264 va lue) and invisibles must be collected, and surrendered where required, in any convertible cu r rency through an authorized bank in Jo rdan, or in Jo rdan d inars from a nonres ident account w i th an authorized bank in Jordan. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may open nonres ident accounts in domestic cu r rency; these accoun ts may be credited only w i th approved fund s. The approval of the Cen tral Bank is necessary for t r an s f e rs f rom resident to non res ident accounts, but t r an s f e rs between non res ident accounts are perm i t ted free ly. In add i t ion, nonres iden ts, inc lud ing Jo rdan ians wo rk ing abroad, may f ree ly open in teres t- bea r ing fore ign cu r rency accoun ts w i th authorized banks. Balances on these accoun ts may be w i thd rawn f r e e ly in convertible cu r rency, and the in terest rate is f ixed in accordance w i th rates p r e v a i l i ng in in te rna- t ional ma rke ts. Jo rdan ian na t iona ls residing in Jordan may m a i n t a in fore ign cu r rency deposits w i th licensed banks in Jordan, provided t h at such deposit accounts are credited w i th fo re ign currencies f rom any source and that the to tal of the deposits that any one person holds does not exceed the equivalent of JD 30,000. Jo rdan ians who have worked abroad for more than three years and have decided to re tu rn may open accounts in fore ign currencies w i thout limits for a period of up to five years, a f t er which the deposits in excess of the equivalent of JD 30,000 must be con- verted into Jordan dinars. Foreign Currency Accounts Deposit accounts denom ina ted in fore ign currency may be opened at the Cen t ral Bank by semigovernmental entities as well as the specialized lend ing ins t i tu t ions, licensed finance companies, and domestic corporations of vital na t ional interest ( in c lud ing those companies in which the Gove rnment owns more than 25 per cent of the cap i ta l), provided that ou t s t and ing ba lances ( inc lud- ing interest ea rn ings) in each account do not exceed JD 1.0 million. This ceiling could be raised to JD 3.0 mil- lion in certain cases. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts of cer ta in i tems4 f rom any source, some impo r ts from Roman ia, and all impor ts f rom Israel are prohibited. All other imports, un less covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting coun try (i.e., ag r icu l tu ral products f rom ne ighbo r ing coun t r ies ), require import licenses if the ir c. & f. va lue exceeds 4 These inc lude carbonic acid; some nonalcoholic beverages; cigar- e t tes; secondhand passenger cars and buses t h at are more than five years old; and m i l i ta ry u n i f o rm s. Ce r ta in of these commodities may be impo r ted, however, f r om A r ab Common Ma rket coun t r ies and f rom coun t r ies w i th wh ich t rade agreemen ts are in force. Impor ts of barley, lentils, olives, olive oil, and some o ther ag r i cu l tu r al commodities may be prohibited in good crop years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JD 100. These are gran ted free ly by the Ministry of Indus try and Trade, except for certain i tems5 that are subject to scrutiny by the Minister of Industry and Trade (whose pr ior approval is also required for imports of indus tr ial machinery and of all materials needed for the establishment or expansion of an industrial firm) or by the appropriate ministry. Imports that require an import license also require an exchange permit, which is granted automatically when an import license has been ob ta ined; the importer hold- ing an exchange perm it may either open a letter of credit or pay aga inst documen ts. A fee of 0.10 per cent is levied on exchange perm i ts for imports, except those made by government depa r tmen ts and certain approved ins t i tu t ions. The use of suppliers' credit is subject to prior central bank approva l, wh ich no rma l ly is given for essential impor ts only. Most imported commodities are sub ject to an import du ty of 4 per cent of the c. & f. va lue, payab le on the issue of the import license. In add i t ion, a surcharge of 15 per cent of the duty-paid va lue is levied on most imports to finance social we l fa re and the deve lopment of certain public facilities. Payments for Invisibles Rem i t tances by postal order do not require exchange control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a mon th (JD 100 a person a month for Kuwa it and JD 50 for the Un i ted K i n g d om ). Payments for the fo l low ing types of invisibles are generally per- m i t ted w i th in ce r ta in l im i ts: rem i t tances to residents' dependents; reasonable l iv ing expenses of Jordanian na t iona ls ab road; expenses of Jordan ian residents trav- eling abroad; educa t ional expenses; expenses for medi- cal t rea tmen t; business expenses abroad; and insurance paymen ts in accordance w i th special regulations.6 No limit exists on the rem i t tance of income accrued to nonresidents or savings of fore ign nationals who intend to return to their own countries. The exchange allowance for business and tourist travel is the equ iva lent of JD 5,000 a person (JD 500 for children under 18 ). These allowances are granted annua l ly for one or more trips. For fam i ly support, an annual allowance of JD 5,000 for each beneficiary is perm i t ted; however, rem i t tances by postal order may be made for amoun ts not exceeding the equ iva lent of JD 10 a mon th to any one person resident abroad (JD 100 a mon th for Kuwa it and JD 50 for the United K ingdom) and are not subject to this ceiling. The policy in respect of payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. In practice, the Central Bank does not restrict rem i t tances of income accruing to 5 These items on the "restricted list" include frozen meat, fish, and pou l t ry; ghee, ma rga r ine, and other vegetable fa ts; tomato juice; saccharin; Dulcin; pectin; superphosphates; dry batteries; guns; fire- crackers; and wireless transmission and reception appara tus other th an televisions and radios. 6 All in su rance must be taken out in Jordan, but fore ign exchange is g ran ted for p rem iums in respect of insurance contracts concluded prior to May 1965. JORDAN nonresidents or of savings of fore ign na t iona ls re tu rn ing to their own coun try. In add i t ion to any travel a l loca t ion, residents and nonresidents trave l ing abroad may take out up to JD 300 in Jordan ian notes and coin and any amount in foreign notes and coin, provided these are for their own use. Furthermore, all travelers may take out checks, travelers checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan, in accordance w i th exchange perm i ts authorized by the Cen tral B ank. Tourists and o ther nonres iden ts may also take out fo re ign cu r rency notes and coin and any other fo re ign means of payment that they had prev ious ly b rought in and declared to the customs au tho r i t ies at the time of en t ry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are proh ib i ted. Export proceeds must be collected and the fore ign exchange su r rende red w i th in six mon ths of shipment. Exempt f rom th is requ i rement are the proceeds f rom exports of fo re ign goods w i th a v a lue of less than JD 1,500, of Jo rdan ian products to ne ighbor ing A r ab coun tr ies, and proceeds of up to JD 500 f rom exports (exc lud ing f r u i ts and vegetables) to other countries. Exporters and residents of Jordan are not perm i t ted to m a in t a in bank ba lances abroad for any purpose. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange rece ip ts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to an au thor ized bank or, if bankno tes and travelers checks are received, to an authorized bank or to an au thor ized exchange dealer. Travelers en ter ing Jordan may b r ing in any amount in Jordan ian and fo re ign notes and coin.7 Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be requ ired by the Central Bank to surrender to an au thor ized bank any fo re ign cu r rency at h is disposal. Capital Cap i tal may be imported free ly, but exports of cap i tal require approval and are not norma l ly allowed, except that the Central Bank is prepared to examine applications by banks, in su rance compan ies, i n d u s t r i al or t rad ing firms, and con trac tors for permission to trans- fer funds abroad for specified inves tment or operating purposes. Cu r rent income resu l t ing f rom nonresident inves tmen ts in Jordan may be t ran s fe r red abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, profits from approved fore ign inves tmen ts may be rem i t ted, w i thout l im i ta t ion, in any convertible cur- rency. A f t er two years, repatriation of the capital is perm i t ted in three equal annual ins ta l lmen ts in any con- ver t ib le currency. The Investment Committee may approve more liberal provisions, and exchange permits are gran ted accordingly. The Companies Registration 7 App roval is not given for the c r ed i t ing of such Jo rdan ian cu r rency to a nonresident account or for the rem i t tance abroad of the equivalent in foreign currency. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Law No. 46 of 1975 provides various benefits for foreign companies establishing branches in Jordan for the purpose of conducting business outside the country; such branches may also be granted nonresident status for exchange control purposes. Premium Development Bonds denominated in Jordan dinars may be purchased with convertible currencies by nonresidents; maturity proceeds, premiums, and interest are transferable in any convertible currency. Gold The Central Bank has issued ten gold coins, including two issued in 1981. These coins, although legal tender, do not circulate and are available only to nonresidents and domestic numismatists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or investment purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not, in principle, allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry are issued by the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the recommendation of the Central Bank, while exports of gold in any form require a license from the Central Bank. Licenses are not normally granted, except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 266 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kenya is the Kenya Shilling, which is pegged to the SDR at K Sh 11.95 = SDR 1. The middle rate of the Kenya shilling for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank is determined on the basis of the da i ly U.S. dollar-SDR rate. The Central Bank's buy ing and selling rates are each set at 0.15 per cent below and above the rate thus determined. On Decem- ber 31, 1981 buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K Sh 10.2707 and K Sh 10.3016, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate New York closing rates. The Central Bank does not deal in other foreign currencies, except occasionally on behalf of the Government. Add i t ional effective exchange rates arise f rom an advance import deposit scheme as well as f rom the application of a levy on the purchase of travel tickets. The Central Bank deals up to six months forward with commercial banks in sterling and U.S. dollars to cover their contracts with exporters and importers; com- mercial banks may cover their forward exchange con- tracts in outside markets in other foreign currencies against U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the adminis- tration of exchange control to the Central Bank. Author- ity is delegated to the authorized banks for approving certain payments for imports, many payments for cur- rent invisibles, and some capital payments. Import and export controls are administered by the Director of Internal Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. The responsibility for issuing import and export licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or the exporter in Kenya before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for imports are forwarded by the Director of Internal Trade to the Central Bank. The quota system is administered by the Import Quota Committee (IQC) and the Foreign Exchange Allocation Committee (FEAC), both of which are composed of representatives f rom the Minis- tries of Finance, Commerce, Indus try, and Planning, and the Central Bank. The IQC, under the Ministry of Commerce, allocates quotas to ind iv idual importers, while the FEAC, under the Ministry of Finance, sets global quotas. The government-owned Kenya National Trading Corporation, Ltd. has a monopoly over the 1 Bu rundi francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, Ethiopian b irr, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Ugandan shillings, and Zambian kwacha. import of specified commodities, and the export of certain agricultural commodities is controlled by State Marketing Boards. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of coun tr ies other than South A f r ica may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of an Ex ternal Account in Kenya or in any fo re ign cur- rency. Receipts may be obtained in Kenya shillings f rom an External Account in Kenya or in any market- able fore ign currency. Remittances to South A f r ica are prohibited, w i th the exception of pensions payable by the Government of Kenya. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of countries other th an South A f r ica with authorized banks in Kenya are, w i th exchange control approval, desig- nated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized paymen ts to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers f rom other Ex te rnal Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of any cu r rency (other than South Afr ican cu r rency) and gold by nonresidents to authorized dealers. External Accounts may be deb- ited freely for paymen ts to residents and nonresidents. Non t rans fe rab le funds of nonresidents are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed procedures, balances on Blocked Accounts (other than those in the beneficial ownership of residents of South A f r i c a) may be used for approved domestic expenditures and for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Government or by local au thor i t ies and officially quoted in Kenya.2 The redemption proceeds of these securities are transferable, and interest is free ly trans- ferab le to nonresidents as and when it accrues. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom South A f r ica are prohibited. Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy; imports of certain other goods are not being licensed. Certain items are imported only by the Kenya Na t ional Trading Corporation, Ltd. These in- clude sugar, salt, rice, edible oils, blankets, and cotton piece goods. All imports are classified into three schedules (Sched- ules I, IIA, and IIB) and are subject to specific import licensing. All private sector imports require a license for the allocation of foreign exchange, issued jo in t ly by the Director of In ternal Trade and the Central Bank. Applications must be approved before firm orders are placed. Schedule I contains high-priority items, for which licenses are automatically approved by the Director of 2 Such securities must be payable in Kenya shillings and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years f rom the date of acquisition. 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA Internal Trade, and foreign exchange is expeditiously allocated by the Central Bank. Schedule IIA is sub- divided into IIA-special, which includes high-priority items whose importation requires authorization by a state agency, and IIA-ordinary, which comprises non- luxury consumer goods. Schedule IIB contains items that are domestically produced, or whose substitutes are available from domestic industry, and luxury consumer goods. Importation of items in Schedules IIA and IIB is limited to importers who have been granted foreign exchange quotas. Quotas for the high-priority items in Schedule IIA-special are set so as to satisfy expected demand, and import licenses up to the quotas are given automatically. The importers' quotas for items in Sched- ule IIA-ordinary are flexible, in that they are usable for any items within that category, provided that an import license has been issued. The importers' quotas for Schedule IIB, on the other hand, are item-specific. Applications for foreign exchange allocation licenses for imports are subject to a charge of 1 per cent of the amount of the application. When an exchange allocation license has been obtained f rom the Central Bank or when such a license is not required, authorized banks are permitted to pro- vide exchange against documents, but normally not prior to customs entry. Prior exchange control approval must be obtained for imports of capital goods on deferred payment terms, and for imports of machinery and equipment, which are regarded as a contribution toward capital or are to be accounted for on a loan basis. With the exception of imports from Tanzania, Uganda, and some other countries, most imports with an f.o.b. value in excess of K Sh 25,000 are subject to preshipment inspection as to quality, quantity, and price by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva acting for the Central Bank. A "Clean Report of Find- ings" must be obtained before shipment, and authorized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clearance of imports until this "Clean Report" has been received. All goods purchased by importers in Kenya must be insured with companies licensed to transact insurance business in Kenya. Some imports are subject to a temporary import deposit requirement of 50 per cent or 10 per cent of the c. & f. value, or 100 per cent in the case of passenger automobiles and textiles; some commodities are exempt. The deposits bear no interest and are refundable within one month (three months for passenger automobiles and textiles). There is a surcharge of 1 per cent on all imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments without limitation or up to estab- lished limits. Amounts above these limits as well as other current payments may be approved administra- 268 in practice tively, and most current payments are unrestricted. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 24,000 a person for a fu ll scholastic yea r3 and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon presentation of evidence of debt. The Central Bank may approve higher remit- tances for education expenses. Foreign nationals who work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as certain categories of the self-employed, such as doctors and den t is ts) for not more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to one third of their mon th ly salaries but not more than K Sh 4,000 a mon th; in add i t ion, they may rem it funds to cover ma in tenance, education expenses, etc., provided that their total remittances including savings do not exceed one half of their monthly salaries. Expatriates who have stayed for over four years may continue to remit f rom salaries as above, up to the end of the tenth year of their residence in Kenya, but in that case they are not entitled to transfer additional savings upon emigration w i th in that period. Remittances to South Africa, other than certain pen- sions, are prohibited. Nonresident individual property owners may remit up to K Sh 20,000 of net rental income in each 12-month period. Any excess of net rent over the per- mitted t ran s fer is placed in a Blocked Account and may be invested in approved securities with at least five years to maturity, af ter which period the redemption proceeds may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. Real estate companies deriving income solely from rent are permitted to transfer annua l ly up to 10 per cent of the book value of their properties as at September 25, 1970, or an amount not exceeding 10 per cent of issued capital. Where income is derived from rent as well as other sources, applications must be made to the exchange control authorities for approval of remittance of such incomes. Exchange control approval is required for outward remittance of profits and d iv idends on non- resident equ i ty holdings. The basic allowance for travel by adults holding round-trip tickets is K Sh 4,000 a person (K Sh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every two years, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes. Holders of one-way tickets are not entitled to the basic travel allowance but to an allowance of K Sh 2,000 for adults and K Sh 1,000 for children. The basic allow- ance is not available for travel to South Afr ica. Busi- ness travelers to Tanzania and Uganda are granted an allowance of up to K Sh 400 a night for a max imum period of ten days at a time. Business travelers to other countries are granted an allowance of up to K Sh 700 a night for a max imum period of 25 days. There is a once- only pilgrimage allowance of K Sh 6,000 for adults, 3 Authorized dealers are not allowed to remit any funds for educa- tional support to students at primary or secondary schools who were not abroad in the 1975-76 academic year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution which is available only to persons who have not utilized the basic travel allowance w i th in the preceding two years. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign cur- rency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Residents of Kenya trave l ing abroad on interna- t ional f l igh ts and holding re tu rn tickets may carry up to K Sh 100 with them for local expenses on re turn, but otherwise the export of Kenya bankno tes is prohibited. Temporarily, all sales of tickets to Kenyan residents for nongovernmen tal travel outside Kenya are subject to exchange control approval. Applications for travel t icke ts must be accompanied by a deposit of 10 per cent of the va lue of the air ticket and 5 per cent of the sea ticket, re tu rnab le only if the app l ica t ions are not approved. Residents may not send abroad more than K Sh 200 a year as a cash g i ft w i thout specific exchange control approval. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. All regu- lar exporters mu st be registered w i th the Central Bank. Exports of cer ta in food s tu f fs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction to ensure adequate supplies in the domestic market. Exports of tea, coffee, minerals, precious stones, and strategic ma ter ia ls are also subject to special licensing. Most other goods may be exported without special licenses other than exchange control approval. Coffee is exported th rough the Coffee Ma rke t ing Board. Export proceeds in fo re ign currencies must be collected w i th in three mon ths of expo r ta t ion and offered to an authorized bank in Kenya for conversion in to Kenya shillings.4 Exports of m anu f a c tu r ed goods w i th at least 30 per cent domestic value added are eligible for compensation equivalent to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value. All exports other than coffee, tea, sugar, sisal, py re th rum, horticul- tu ral products, petroleum products, soda ash, and most goods not subject to import du ty are covered by the export compensation scheme. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in fo re ign currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Nonresidents must settle hotel bills in fore ign currency or against an External Account. Travelers may br ing in freely foreign cur- rency notes, except those of Tanzania and Uganda. The import of domestic bankno tes is prohibited, except that residents re tu rn ing to Kenya may br ing in up to K Sh 100 previously taken out by themselves. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are restricted. Trans- fers to South A f r ica are not allowed. With the excep- tion of expatriate employees who have opted for remit- tance of savings f rom salaries, an em igrant is allowed to t ran s fer up to K Sh 300,000 a f am i ly un it f rom his 4 There are m inor exemptions with respect to Ethiopian birr and Somali shillings for persons resident in specified border areas. KENYA declared assets as a settling-in allowance to the new coun try of residence. Of this sum, K S hi 00,000 is made available for immediate remittance and the remainder will be authorized for remittance in not more than five annual ins ta l lmen ts not exceeding the equivalent of K Sh 40,000 each year. The in i t ial settling- in allowance of K Sh 100,000 lapses if it is not remitted within the first two years of the emigrant's depar ture f rom Kenya. All rema in ing f u n ds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in approved securities, and redemp t ion proceeds become transferab le, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years f rom the date of purchase. If assets in Kenya are valued at K Sh 1 m i l l ion or more, they must be liquidated before any exchange control approvals are sought and the proceeds must be invested in prescribed securities. The investment of fore ign f u n ds in Kenya is not generally restricted, but to ensure eventual repa t r ia t ion it is necessary to obtain f r om the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the inves tmen t. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of produc- t ion requires approval. Local borrow ing by nonresident- owned or nonresident-controlled companies, as well as borrowing by residents f rom nonres iden ts, requ ires exchange control approval and is restricted. All impo r ts and exports of securities require approval. App roval is granted for the purchase by non res iden ts of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an app rop r ia te manner. The income f rom such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must norma l ly be credited to a Blocked Account unless they are reinvested. Res iden ts are not norma l ly permitted to purchase fo re ign securities. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for num isma t ic purposes. With th is exception, resi- dents other than the mone tary au thor i t ies and authorized indus tr ial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a trav- eler require exchange control approval. Import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths, and impor ts of gold coin are not being licensed. Changes during 1981 February 3. The Kenya shilling was depreciated f rom K S h 9 . 66 = SDR1 to K Sh 10.15 = SDR 1. March 17. The exemption from repa tr ia t ion of for- eign deposits, securities, and other assets of va lue held abroad (ma in ly in the fo rmer Sterling Area) by residents prior to June 11, 1965 was abolished, and these items were subjected to the provisions of the Exchange Con- trol Act. Repatriation of the assets held abroad was required to be completed by December 31, 1981. 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA June 16. As part of import reform measures incor- porated in the Finance Bill of 1981, tar iffs were raised on over 1,400 import items. September 21. The Kenya shilling was depreciated by 15 per cent in terms of the SDR, to a new rate of K Sh 11.95 = SDR 1. November 20. A new import system was introduced whereby the previous four schedules and the open gen- eral license category were replaced by three schedules (Schedules I, IIA, and IIB) with an explicit listing of import items. In addition, the retention period for the advance import deposit was reduced to three months for passenger cars and textiles and to one month for all other goods subject to the scheme. 270 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Korea is the Korean Won, which is linked to a multicurrency basket (consisting of a trade- weighted basket and the SDR baske t), but other factors are also taken into account if necessary. The Bank of Korea establishes daily the exchange rate of the won in terms of the U.S. dollar, which is the intervention currency. On December 31, 1981 the buying and sell- ing rates of the Bank of Korea for the U.S. dollar were W 698.70 and W 702.30, respectively, per US$1, and the telegraphic transfer buying and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were W 698.30 and W 702.70, respectively, per US$1. The buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies are posted daily by foreign exchange banks on the basis of buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward trans- actions not only in foreign currencies but also between the Korean won and foreign currencies. In cases of forward transactions in foreign currencies, the terms of the forward contract may extend for up to one year between foreign exchange banks or between foreign exchange banks and nonresidents. Between foreign exchange banks and nonbank resident users of the facility, the term may extend for up to six months, provided that the forward contract relates to a bona fide transaction and that the amount of the contract does not exceed the expected receipt or payment aris- ing from that transaction. In cases of forward trans- actions between the Korean won and foreign curren- cies, the U.S. dollar, the pound sterling, the deutsche mark, and the Japanese yen are the foreign currencies covered. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance initiates policy with respect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmer- chandise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. It also prepares and administers the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand Plan, which sets overall ceilings on the amounts of foreign exchange that may be used. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes most of the above functions; it also regulates operations in the exchange market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has been dele- gated authority to control payments related to invisibles and certain capital transactions. The foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of foreign banks, are authorized to engage in commercial inter- national banking and in all foreign exchange dealings, with the exception of those specifically prohibited. The trade program for imports financed from Korea's own foreign exchange resources (KFX) is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try. Imports financed by foreign loans are drawn up separately by the Ministry of Finance in consultation with the Min- istry of Commerce and Industry. Import licenses are issued by the foreign exchange banks. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other countries are made in convertible currencies. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts w i th foreign exchange banks. Remittances f rom such accounts and withdrawals in the fo rm of currency notes upon depar- ture f rom Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remittances abroad or t ran s fer to other foreign currency accounts, or for remittances f rom remuneration for services in Korea, purchases of other foreign means of payment, or sales to a foreign exchange bank in exchange for domestic means of pay- ment or payments for approved transactions. The deposit may be disposed of by sale to a foreign exchange bank at the prevailing exchange rate and may be debited for salaries paid to foreign employees. All residents are allowed to open fore ign currency deposit accounts. The holders of these accounts may change the currency composition of these accounts as they wish. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses; for certain imports (see be low ), licenses are issued upon application. Imports are divided into two categories: those paid for with Korean foreign exchange (KFX impo r ts) and those paid for with foreign loan funds. KFX imports are classified as automatic approval or restricted items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved), unless they are in a list of restricted items, subject to the general limits set by the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand Plan. On December 31, 1981, out of 7,465 basic items in the Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature (CCCN), 1,886 were classified as restricted items. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are normally approved auto- matically, irrespective of, their classification. 1 In addition to the Hong Kong dollar and the Swiss f r an c, the list of prescribed currencies comprises the currencies of the member countries of the IMF that have accepted the obligations of Article VIII of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Import licenses are granted only to registered trad- ers; to maintain the status of a registered trader, a minimum value of US$1 million of exports is required each year for ordinary exporters. The commercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated, and advance import deposits ranging from 5 per cent to 20 per cent are required for goods imported by the private sector on a deferred payment basis. These requirements are met, for KFX imports, by a deposit of local currency at the time of the request for the opening of letters of credit. Advance deposits are retained until the bill of lading is released. The customs ta r i ff is a "flexible" ta r i f f. Furthermore, the Government may alter import du ty rates adminis- tratively by up to 50 percentage points. The Govern- ment also has authority to impose import surcharges of up to 30 per cent on all dutiable imports, but by the end of 1981 it had not invoked this authority. A defense surcharge of 2.5 per cent ad valorem is levied on most goods, whether locally produced or imported. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual licenses. Payments for invisibles connected with foreign trade and for certain other items such as banking charges, insurance premiums, communication fees, and periodi- cals are licensed automatically. In addition, Korean companies are authorized to use foreign exchange for the expenses of their overseas branches. Residents traveling abroad may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$3,000 each trip as the basic travel allowance plus US$200 a day (if the period of travel is in excess of 10 days ), or up to US$2,000 as a monthly allowance for living expenses (if the period of travel is in excess of 60 days), and may also purchase additional foreign exchange for extra expenses. The basic individual travel allowance for students is US$2,000; for others, including Koreans working abroad, it is US$1,000. Korean currency notes in excess of W 500,000 and foreign currency notes may not be exported without special permission. Nonresi- dents must register the foreign exchange that they bring into Korea if the amount exceeds the equivalent of US$10,000. Upon leaving the country, foreign resi- dents and tourists may acquire foreign exchange up to the amount for which they have proof of exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports on a restricted list require individual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an automatic approval procedure. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must either be surrendered to a foreign exchange bank at its posted customer rate or be deposited in foreign exchange accounts in banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds derived from invisibles must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank for won or be deposited in 272 foreign exchange accounts in the banks. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange, but the import by travelers of Korean currency in excess of W 500,000 is restricted. The proceeds received by construction companies from construction activity abroad must be deposited in foreign currency accounts, and the conversion of these deposits is subject to approval by a foreign exchange bank, for ascertaining the bona fides of the transac- tions; approval is given v ir tua l ly automatically. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Foreign capital investment, loans from abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guar- antee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. No limits are placed on the conversion and remittance of leg i t ima te profits and dividends, or on the repatriation of the original capital invested, but proposed remittances must be notified to the Ministry of Finance 90 days prior to the end of the fiscal year. No prior approval is required to hold abroad retained profits not exceeding US$10,000 from Korean direct investment overseas. Under the Foreign Capital Inducement Act, authorization is required for borrowing abroad of more than US$200,000 with maturities in excess of three years; for borrowings under US$200,000 repayable within three years, autho- rization is required under the Foreign Exchange Con- trol Act. There is a limit of US$100,000 on individual borrowings from foreign branches of Korean banks by Koreans living abroad. Foreign bank branches in Korea can enter into swap transactions with the Bank of Korea to secure funds for their domestic currency lending. Foreign exchange allowance for emigrants is subject to a limit of US$100,000 for each household. Foreign exchange banks may grant authorization for such remit- tances up to US$20,000; for remittances over US$20,000 authorization from the Bank of Korea is required. Gold Certain commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may free ly buy, hold, and sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry consti- tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Bank of Korea or a foreign exchange bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and authorized industrial users. The import of gold for industrial or medical purposes requires approval by a foreign exchange bank. Domes- tically produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. The free market price at public gold auctions was about W 11,200 a gram at the end of 1981. Changes during 1981 January 5. Tariff quotas were introduced for the period up to June 30 on 64 import items, including ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution foodstuffs, chemicals, pulp, and steel products; the tariff rates for the imports subject to the quotas were reduced on average f rom 19.5 per cent to 9.2 per cent. May 30. The import classification system in the Annual Export-Import Notice was changed from the CCCN four-digit system to the eight-digit system. On the basis of the new classification, 396 commodity cate- gories were transferred f rom the restricted to the auto- matic approval list, raising the share of imports on the automatic approval list from 69.4 per cent to 74.7 per cent of all basic items in the CCCN. June 20. The max imum foreign exchange allowance for emigrants was fixed at US$100,000 for each house- hold. Foreign exchange banks may grant authorization for such remittances up to US$20,000; authorization f rom the Bank of Korea is required for remittances over US$20,000. July 22. Tariff quotas for the period to December 31, 1981 were introduced on 62 import items, including foodstuffs, chemicals, pulp, and steel products. In addi- tion, the tariff rates on the quota items were reduced KOREA from an average of 21 per cent to an average of 10 per cent. July 29. A new set of guidelines was announced to promote inward foreign direct investment, including (a) expansion of the list of eligible projects; (b) exten- sion of the list of projects for which 100 per cent and 50 per cent foreign participation is permissible; and (c) abolition of the regulation requ ir ing a m in imum of two years before the repatriation of capital. August 1. The limit on ind iv idual borrowings f rom foreign branches of Korean banks by Koreans living abroad was raised f rom US$50,000 to US$100,000. August 1. The following changes were in troduced to activate outward direct investment: (a) simplification of the procedure, including abolition of the require- ment of prior approval of the Bank of Korea; and (b) termination of approval requirements for retained profits of up to US$10,000. August 1. The list of invisible payments eligible for automatic approval was extended. 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti Dinar. The exchange value of the Kuwaiti dinar is determined on the basis of the fixed but adjustable relationship between the Kuwaiti dinar and a weighted basket of currencies of Kuwait's major trad ing partners. For exchange transac- tions with local banks in the intervention currency, the U.S. dollar, the Central Bank of Kuwait normally sets marg ins of 0.0625 per cent on either side of the middle ra te. The Central Bank sets the rate for the U.S. dollar each day on the basis of the latest available market quo- tations for that currency in relation to the other cur- rencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1981 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were KD 0.28123 and KD 0.28159, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. On April 5, 1963 Kuwait formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control, and residents and non- residents may freely purchase and sell foreign currencies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currencies of Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited.1 General and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. A limited control over exports is adminis- tered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Customs and Ports Administration. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwaiti d ina rs and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all commercial imports other than foods tu f fs; licenses are issued freely for registered Kuwaiti merchants and companies, except for wheat, flour, and asbestos pipes. Registered import- ers hand l ing a variety of commodities may obtain a gen- eral license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which also are valid for one year. Imports of industrial equip- men t, machinery, and the ir spare parts require industrial licenses. Private imports of personal objects may be per- mitted under individual or specific licenses. Importation 1 In add i t ion, all imports from these countries and all exports to them are prohibited; payments may not be made to them or be received from them for any type of transaction. 274 of certain items (ma in ly oxygen, certain steel and asbes- tos pipes, pork or foods tuffs con ta in ing pork, alcoholic beverages, used trucks and buses over ten years old, and used automobiles over five years o ld) is prohibited. Commercial imports are limited to registered import- ers. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwa i ti merchant or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwa i ti nationals own at least 51 per cent of the stocks. Imports f rom any permitted source may be paid for freely. Du r ing 1981 customs ta r i f fs continued to be used for the protection of domestically produced goods. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry and of certain other items (such as sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, fish, milk, cheese, bu t ter, olive oil, fresh f ru i t s, vegetables in any fo rm, beans, lentils, chick-peas, jams, and cement) may be prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quanti- ties only, under a special license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Exports of arms, ammun i- tion, and scrap metal require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports: the proceeds need not be repatriated or sur- rendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in Kuwaiti or other banknotes. Capital There are no exchange control res tra in ts on the trans- fer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in corporations in Kuwait, and a license is required for the establishment and operation of industries in Kuwa i t; at least 51 per cent of ownership of new Kuwa i ti companies must be held by nationals. No restrictions are imposed on out- ward capital payments by residents or nonresidents. Dealings in the stocks of foreign companies in the Kuwait stock exchange are prohibited, and foreigners may not buy or sell stocks at this exchange. Gold The monetary authorities and merchan ts registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-karat fine; gold jewelry may not ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Kuwaiti nationals may freely, and without license, pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, carry their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manu- fac tured or unmanufac tured, are subject to an import du ty of 4 per cent. Changes during 1981 January 1. The import duty on cigarettes and tobacco was raised from 4 per cent to 30 per cent. KUWAIT 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Repub- lic is the Kip (KN ), which was introduced by decree on December 10, 1979 to replace the Kip of Liberation at KN 1 = KL 100. On December 31, 1981 the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Na t ional Bank of Laos ( the central b a n k) was KN 10 = US$1. The offi- cial exchange rate applies to most foreign exchange transactions. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies 1 are also officially quoted. An exchange premium of KN 15 to KN 25 per US$1 is determined periodically and applies to sales transactions by tourists and embassies and to inward transfers. Administration of Control The Bank for Lao Foreign Trade, a subsidiary of the Na t ional Bank, handles all official foreign exchange transactions related to foreign trade and services. All other official transactions are handled by the National Bank, which also administers exchange controls. Most foreign trade has been nationalized and applications for imports through official channels must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Min- istry of Finance. The Societe du Commerce Lao (SCL) carries out the actual trade transactions and collects a commission of 2 per cent of the c.i.f. value of each export or import transaction. The SCL directly distributes the imported commodities and pays the import taxes. It values mer- chandise received under foreign aid at the domestic sale price of the product; import taxes on aid imports are levied on 80 per cent of this price. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirement is imposed on receipts or payments but, in principle, the National Bank provides and accepts only deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. The Lao People's Democratic Republic has bilateral trad ing arrangements covering all com- modity trade with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the Ger- man Democratic Republic, Hungary, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. The unit of account is the transferable ruble, and each account is settled at the end of the year in commodities valued on the basis of a moving average of past world market prices. Imports and Import Payments The SCL has the monopoly of imports of investment goods, industrial inputs, and basic consumer goods. An annual import plan is formu la ted by the Department of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- 1 Deutsche ma rk, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 276 try, based on requests furn ished by each government ministry, province, and state enterprise. In general, priority is given to the import of spare parts, raw mate- rials, mach inery, and basic commodities, inc lud ing rice. The import program is reviewed and revised every three mon ths du r ing the fiscal year. An allocation of foreign exchange to a state enterprise lapses at the end of the year if it is not u t i l ized; state en terpr ises may mod i fy their import requ iremen ts d u r i ng the year, subject to the approval of the P l a n n i ng Comm i t tee. State enter- prises must t rans fer the ir export earnings to the Na t ional Bank, but once an enterprise has met its p lanned target for foreign exchange ea rn ings, it may keep 50 per cent of additional earnings in a special account at the National Bank; f u n ds in such special accounts can then be used by the enterprise to import machinery and spare parts, as well as to cover ce r ta in prescribed opera- t ional expenses in fo re ign exchange. These amounts are not included in the annu al import p lan. A similar provision holds for provincial governments. The SCL has a monopoly on exports of t imber, rice, m ineral ore, coffee, ca rdamom, and stick lac. Ind iv idua ls are allowed to export and import commodities outside SCL monopoly provided that they submit a quarterly foreign t rade plan spec ify ing the way in which their imports will be financed. Payments for Invisibles There is a foreign exchange budget de ta i l ing the Government's paymen ts in fo re ign exchange du r ing the fiscal year. Paymen ts for all other inv is ib les are subject to prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is t ry of Finance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of gold and silver are proh ib i ted, except when made by or on behalf of the mone ta ry authorities. There is an export tax of 10 per cent on all exports except logs, which are taxed at 25 per cent, and silk, which is taxed at 40 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the Na t ional Bank. Capital There is no foreign inves tment code. All ou tward capital transactions are prohibited. Gold Residents are prohibited f rom buy ing or selling gold in any form. Changes during 1981 March 31. A f ter having been prohibited in late 1980, foreign trading by private traders was allowed again, with the exception of the commodities that are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution within the monopoly of the SCL. At the same time, a list of export and import commodities was issued for which the state trad ing company continues to have a monopoly. May 15. The exchange premium on sales transac- tions by tourists and embassies, including inward remit- tances, was raised f rom up to KN 5 to a range of KN 15-25, per US$1, LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. The au thor i t ies do not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined largely on the basis of demand and supply con- ditions in the exchange market. However, the authori- ties intervene when necessary in order to ma in ta in orderly conditions in the exchange marke t. On Decem- ber 31, 1981 the ra te for the U.S. dollar was LL 4.5970 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. The calculation of duties and taxes for a given mon th on amounts invoiced or expressed in foreign currencies is based on the middle rate of those currencies du r ing the previous month. Prescription of Currency No restrictions are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some transactions with certain countries w i th which Lebanon has bilateral payments agreements l may be made through specific accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (ma in ly arms and ammuni- tion, narcotics, and similar products) are either pro- hibited or reserved for the Government. All imports f rom Israel and Zimbabwe are prohibited. Imports of wheat and wheat derivatives, as well as of certain agri- cu l tural products that are produced locally, are either prohibited year-round or du r ing a specified period of the year. Imports prohibited year-round include wheat, which, in principle, may be imported only by the Gov- ernment, and citrus f ru i ts, apples, olives (excluding olives in cans weighing less than 2 k i log rams ), olive oil, and peanuts; imports prohibited at certain times inc lude squash, eggplant, green beans, watermelons, peas, peaches, and apricots. Imports of certain other agricultural products and all seeds require a license. Import licenses are also required for certain finished goods, san i ta ry ceramic wares, and electric and tele- phone wires and cables made of copper. All other commodities may be imported freely without a license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely. Banks are obliged to ensure that importers are in pos- session of a valid import license, if required, before issuing letters of credit. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those originating in an Arab country. A stamp tax is applicable to all imports, except gold and banknotes, at the following rates: LL 2 per mill for import values up to LL 100,000, LL 1.5 per mill for import values between LL 100,000 1 Czechoslovakia, Egyp t, Gu inea, Poland, and Romania; a r rangement with Gu inea is inoperative. the 278 and LL 400,000, and LL 1 per mill for import values exceeding LL 400,000. A surcharge of 10 per cent of the app l icab le import d u ty is levied on specified tex- tiles and garmen ts. Surcharges are also levied on motor vehicles, jewelry, watches, and alcoholic beverages. The rates of surcharge on motor vehicles, based on weight, are 20 piastres a kilogram up to 1,500 kilograms; 30 piastres a kilogram between 1,500 kilograms and 2,000 k i log rams; and 40 piastres a k i logram over 2,000 k i lograms. The ra te of surcharge on watches and jewelry is 5 per cen t, and that on alcoholic bever- ages is LL 4 a l i ter, or LL 145 for a case of whiskey con ta in ing 12 bottles. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on paymen ts for invisibles. Exchange may be ob ta ined through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of cer ta in goods (m a in ly arms and ammun i- tion, narcotics, and similar produc ts) to any destina- tion and all exports to Israel and Zimbabwe are pro- h ib i ted. Exports of wheat and its derivatives, to any coun try, and all exports to the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea requ ire a license. Exchange receipts f rom exports may be re ta ined, used, or sold in the f ree market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles may be retained, used, or sold in the free ma rke t. Capital There are no l im i ta t ions on cap i tal paymen ts or receipts. Exchange may be ob ta ined or sold through the f ree market. Banks are permitted to pay interest on nonresident-held deposits denom ina ted in Lebanese pounds. Bank credit in Lebanese pounds to residents for the purchase of fore ign exchange for purposes other than fo re ign t rade t ransac t ions is subject to a special reserve requ iremen t; the deposits amount to 40 per cent of Lebanese pound loans that directly give rise to fo re ign currency deposits and 15 per cent of foreign currency deposits directly arising f rom Lebanese pound loans to depositors. Banks are au thor ized to ma in ta in net foreign currency positions up to a ha lf of the amount of their own capital. Und er a "free zone" bank ing fac i l i ty, the commercial banks are exempt from reserve requ iremen ts and fees for deposit insu rance in respect of foreign currency deposits. Nonresidents are exempt f rom the 10 per cent tax on in terest earnings f rom foreign currency deposits. Under a National Investment Insurance Scheme, new foreign investments are insured against losses arising from noncivil risks, including war. Compensa- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON tion is paid on losses exceeding 5 per cent of the insured value. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license but must be officially recorded. The import, export, and domestic sale of foreign gold coin must be covered by a certifi- cate indicating the gold content and weight, issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer. Changes during 1981 May 13. The Central Bank reduced from 200 per cent to 50 per cent of corporate capital the net foreign currency position that can be maintained by commer- cial banks in Lebanon. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lesotho is the Maloti, which is equal in value to the South African rand. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 31, 1981 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dol- lar were US$1.04790 and US$1.04019, respectively, per M 1. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct fo rwa rd exchange operations. The South A f r ican Reserve Bank provides forward cover; for private sector transactions such cover is given to authorized dealers based on the middle spot rate adjusted by a percentage factor announced f rom time to time. The South A f r ican rand is also legal tender in Lesotho. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There is also a freely floating financial rand which applies to the local sale and redemption proceeds of South Afr ican securities and other investments in Lesotho owned by nonresidents, capital remittances by emigrants and immigrants, and approved outward capi- tal transfers by residents. The rate is usually at a discount from the commercial rand rate. Exchange Control Territory Lesotho forms part of the Rand Mone tary Area, which is a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, South Afr ica, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Monetary Area; these are uncontrolled and unrecorded. In rela- tion to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are largely similar to those of South Afr ica and Swaziland. Administration of Control The Lesotho Monetary Au thor i ty controls external currency transactions. Au thor i ty to approve certain types of current payments is delegated to commercial banks up to established limits. Lesotho's trade licensing arrangements are designed ma in ly to raise revenue and to prevent tax evasion; permits are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Licenses for financial institutions and insurance agents are issued by the Monetary Authority. Imports and Import Payments Lesotho is a member of a customs un ion with Bo- tswana, South Afr ica, and Swaziland, and there are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from countries outside the customs un ion are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations; Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment 280 upon customs entry. There are no b i la teral payments arrangements. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing for revenue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is restricted to the export of diamonds. Most exports are shipped without license to or through South A f r ica. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for cu r rent transactions, although subject to control, are not no rma l ly restricted. Au tho r i ty to approve some types of cu r rent payments has been delegated to authorized dealers up to estab- lished limits, such as the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel (the equivalent of M 4,000 in a ca lendar year for an adu lt and M 2,000 for a ch i ld) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to ne ighbor ing countries. The allowance for business travel is M 7,500 in a calendar year. Capital Applications for ou twa rd t rans fe rs of capital are con- sidered on their merits. The rulings on applications for inward and ou tward capital t rans fe rs may depend on whe ther the applicant is a tempo ra r i ly resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. At present, the financial maloti market is open only to nonres iden ts and imm igran ts who in tend to reside in Lesotho for not more than three years. Certain tax incentives for inwa rd direct investment are provided to m anu f a c tu r- ing undertakings approved by a Pioneer Indus tr ies Board under the Pioneer Indus tr ies Encouragement Act, 1969. Em igrant families may t ran s fer up to M 100,000 through the financial rand system ou ts ide Lesotho as a settling-in allowance, and single persons may t ran s fer for the same purpose and through the same system up to M 50,000 a person. Any excess must be credited to a Blocked Account. The free t ran s fer of income from an emigrant's blocked assets is l im i ted to an annual maximum of M 100,000 a fam i ly un i t. An emigrant fam i ly or an individual may export one automobile only, with a max imum value of M 20,000, provided the automobile was purchased at least one year prior to emigration. Gold Residents may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell any gold coin that is legal tender. Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Liberia is the Liberian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at $1 = US$1. There is no official intervention. U.S. currency is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along with Liberian coinage. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requ iremen ts are in force. Settlements w i th the Central Bank of West A f r ican States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Gu inea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, M au r i t an i a, N iger ia, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control, but the impo r ta t ion of some items is subject to licensing and qu an t i t a t ive restrictions by the M in is try of Commerce, Indus try, and Transportation and the Na t ional Invest- ment Commission to protect local indus t ry. These items comprise automobile batteries, biscuits, brooms and brushes, crown corks, exercise books and note pads, insecticides, k i tchen towels, roofing nails, paint, paper napk ins, sugar, toilet tissues, and wheelbarrows. A few items (e.g., arms and ammun i t ion, explosives, used clothing, and Pha rmaceu t ica l s) require prior licenses. Imports of rubber footwear, household candles, safety matches, and powdered detergents have been suspended temporarily. In addition, imports of cer ta in goods (e.g., pornographic l i te ra tu re, narcotics other than for medic- inal purposes) and all imports f rom South A f r ica are prohibited. Petroleum is imported only by the Liberia Petroleum Re f in ing Company, although a private com- pany is the sole d is tr ibu tor of aviation fuel. are at present required for precious metals, precious stones, elephant tusks and ivory, wild animals, cement, agr icu l tural products other than rubber, flour, and sugar, and certain other items, such as arms and ammu- n i t ion and explosives. Licenses are generally issued free ly, and no licenses are required for direct exports by fore ign concession holders; licenses serve ma in ly to enforce taxation or, for agr icu l tural products, to assure certification of quality and origin and to safeguard the export monopoly of the Liberia Produce Ma rke t ing Corporation. The surrender of export proceeds is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. An export tax is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Under an Investment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises unde r tak ing new investment projects may be granted a five-year, 90 per cent du ty exemption on imports of raw ma ter ia ls and machinery, total tax exemption on reinvested profits, a 50 per cent exemption on distributable profits, and a protective ta r i ff on competing imported products. The five-year incentive may be renewed for a fu r th er two years in certain circumstances. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm are subject to licenses issued by the Minister of Lands and Mines; import licenses are issued freely but export licenses are granted restrictively. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports of rice have been temporarily suspended. Export licenses Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya is the Libyan Dinar. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is LD 0.296053 = US$1. The Central Bank of Libya publishes daily buy ing and selling rates for 15 currencies.1 It deals with commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, at rates fixed daily. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dol- lars through their fore ign correspondents. The banks may not deal among themselves in foreign currencies. Ne i ther authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into fo rwa rd commitments in for- eign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to imports and exports is determined by the General People's Commit- tee for the Economy. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th other countries are made in con- vertible currencies, usually U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. Certain commercial settlements with Turkey are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. All settlements with the People's Republic of China, Israel, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Central Bank, who is ga in fu l ly employed in the country is permitted under the exchange control regulations to open and maintain a nonresident account in Libyan dinars with any autho- rized bank. Legitimate earnings of such nonresidents, inc lud ing overtime payments, can be credited to their nonres ident accounts. Similarly, authorized banks have authority to credit interest earned on balances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. (For debits on such accounts see section on Payments for Invisibles, below.) Funds brought in by nonresident contractors under- tak ing contracts in their own names are required to be kept in "special resident accounts" with a bank. Pay- ments received by contractors in respect of their con- tracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remit- tances f rom these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank a f t er submission of the prescribed evidence. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be t rans fe r red abroad is credited to blocked accounts. With the approval of the Cen tral Bank, funds in blocked accoun ts (w i th cer ta in exceptions) may be used for expend i tures in the L ibyan A r ab Jamah i r iya up to LD 500 a year to cover the cost of visits by the owner of the f u n ds or a close re la t ive; for payment of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for rem i t tances to the owner of the f u n ds in his coun t ry of p e rm an ent residence (up to LD 1,000 in a ca lendar y e a r ); and for rem i t tances in cases of ha rdsh ip. When the f u n ds have been in a blocked account for f ive years, they q u a l i fy for remit- tance in f u ll to the owner in his coun t ry of permanent residence. The blocked accoun ts of persons (w i th cer ta in exceptions) who have le ft the coun t ry perma- n en t ly are being released in in s ta l lmen t s; balances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have been released. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Israel and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Imports for t rade purposes are unde r taken exclusively by state-owned enterprises, a l though resi- dent and nonres ident f i rms und e r t ak ing development projects may import i tems needed to f u r t h er the execu- t ion of the project. All impo r ts are sub ject to licensing. There is a proh ib i ted import list of 64 items,2 mainly consumer goods. Only gove rnment agencies may act as commercial agents, in c lud ing impo rt agents, for for- eign companies. A state-owned company has a monop- oly over the import of gold and precious metals. Exchange perm i ts required for impor ts are readily g ran ted by the au thor ized banks, prov ided that there is a firm con tract and an impo rt license has been obtained and, if the import is to be made on a le t ter of credit basis, that a mar ine insurance policy f rom a local insur- ance company is subm i t ted before the le t ter of credit is established. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durable goods may be opened by an authorized bank w i thout ob ta in ing a cash ma rg in of 25 per cent of the import price. Importers must present to the bank g r an t ing the exchange permit, w i th in two mon ths of customs clearance, a customs declaration con f i rm ing clearance and s ta t ing the valu- ation. The approval of the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the Cen tral Bank is requ i red for advance pay- ments. Deferred payments ( for up to 90 days after customs clearance) and payments for consignment shipments may be approved by the authorized banks. Imports are subject to customs d u ty and to customs 1 Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Lebanese pounds, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tun is ian dinars, and U.S. dollars. 2 These in c lude m in e r al wa te r, f r u it ju ices, tea, coffee, green vege- tables, pou l t ry, preserved mea ts and vegetables, alcoholic beverages, peanu ts, fresh f r u i t, or ien tal rugs, soaps, envelopes, crystal chande- liers, toy guns, l u x u ry cars, and fu rs. 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution surcharges totaling 15 per cent of customs duty. the applicable Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks are empowered to approve applications by residents to remit foreign exchange up to LD 100 in a calendar year for meeting genuine per- sonal commitments abroad of a noncommercial nature, including fam i ly assistance and g i f ts. They may also approve allocations for travel as indicated below, as well as t rans fe rs to residents under tak ing studies abroad, up to l im i ts prescribed for various countries, plus tu i t ion fees, an allowance for books, etc. Remit- tances from nonresident accounts ma in ta ined by non- resident workers and techn ic ians may be approved by authorized banks up to 60 per cent of net salary each mon th; for those workers whose contracts specify that lodging or board will be made available f ree of charge by the employer, remittances up to 90 per cent of net salary are pe rm i t ted. A nonresident w ife or the wife of a nonres iden t, when employed in the country, is permitted to rem it abroad up to 90 per cent of net salary each month. Banks may issue travelers checks and foreign currency notes to nonresident workers and technicians w i th in the limits mentioned. Applications for amoun ts in excess of these l im i ts must be submitted to the Central Bank. Such nonresidents may take with them when going abroad on vacation or on final depar- ture certain goods, the value of which is not deducted from the balances in their nonresident accounts; a non- resident may also export one automobile during his stay in the country. All other payments for invisibles, as well as paymen ts in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require prior approval from the Central Bank. Applications are considered on their merits. Persons leaving the coun try may take with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of LD 20 (LD 10 for children under 1 2 ); these may not be spent or exchanged outside the coun try, but are intended for immediate expenses upon re turn. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, including tourist travel may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 750 (LD 375 for children u n d er 12) in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained f rom any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Add i t ional amoun ts may be granted in special circum- stances. Pilgrims are entitled to a special quota, vary- ing between adults and children. For business travel, residents may take out the equivalent of LD 1,000 a trip, subject to a max imum of LD 2,500 in a calendar year. All fares may be settled in Libyan dinars. Tempo- rary residents may take out any travelers checks or foreign currency notes which they had previously brought in and declared to the customs. LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for fish, raw wool, hides and skins, and for commodities that are not of Libyan origin. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank w i th in six months of ship- men t. Exports of nonmone ta ry gold (other than for processing ab ro ad ), vegetable oils, and scrap metals are proh ib i ted; exports or re-exports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, tomato paste, and macaron i, which are subsidized commodities, are also prohibited. All exports to Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be su r rende red. Travelers checks or fo re ign cu r rency notes may be encashed on ly at an au tho r ized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Cen t ral Bank. Travelers en te r ing the coun t ry may b r ing w i th them L ibyan currency notes, not exceeding LD 20, and other currency notes, trave lers checks, letters of credit, secu- rities, coupons, and other negotiable ins t rumen ts in un l im i t ed amoun ts. Capital Under the provisions of Foreign Capital Investment Law No. 37 of Ju ly 31, 1968, fore ign cap i tal invested in projects deemed to con t r ibu te to the economic devel- opment of the coun t ry, as well as prof i ts thereon, and salaries of fo re ign s taff employed on such projects, may be t ran s fe r red free ly to the coun t ry of origin, provided that the pa id -up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 per cent of the shares are held by for- eign na t iona ls. Foreign par t ic ipa t ion in indus t r ial ven- tu res set up a f t er March 20, 1970 is perm i t ted on a m ino r i ty basis, but only if it leads to increased produc- t ion in excess of local requirements, in troduc t ion of the latest technology, and cooperation w i th fore ign firms in exporting the su rp lus produc t ion. Insurance compa- nies and fo re ign shareholdings in banks have been nationalized. Commercial firms have been Libyanized in va ry ing degrees, and 51 per cent or more of the Libyan interests of the in te rna t ional oil companies have been nationalized. Real estate may be sold only to Libyans, other than in exceptional circumstances. The net sales proceeds a f t er tax of real estate belonging to fore ign nationals are t rans fe rab le, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be t ran s fe r red abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonres ident Accounts, above ). Res iden ts require the prior app roval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents require prior permission to purchase real estate abroad or to invest abroad in securities. Res iden ts t ak ing up pe rmanent residence abroad are permitted to transfer up to LD 5,000 for a f am i ly; applications may be sub- mitted for the release of the balance of their assets over 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA a number of years. The investment of national capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20, 1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. An official entity, the Commercial Gold Fund, imports processed and unpro- cessed gold and precious metals. The Gold Fund sells gold in bars to domestic goldsmiths for manu fac tu re at prices announced from time to time. The gold is processed before it may be sold to the public. Unworked gold is subject to an import du ty of 15 per cent. Changes during 1981 November 5. The importation of 64 items, mostly consumer goods, was prohibited. 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy Franc. Between its currency and the French f ranc, the inter- vention currency, Madagascar maintains a fixed rate of FMG 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates for the French f r a nc are FMG 49.75 and FMG 50.25, respectively, per F 1. The Cen tral Bank quotes exchange rates for seven other currencies,2 based on the buy ing and selling rates for the French f ranc in various exchange markets. The buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1981 were FMG 225.89 and FMG 228.16, respectively, per US$1. The autho- rized banks are not permitted to ma in ta in an exchange position in any fore ign currency although they may hold trade bills as fore ign assets. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control All countries other than Madagascar are considered foreign countries, and financial relations with all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Office of the Directorate of the Treasury, which also super- vises borrowing and lending abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or in troduc t ion of foreign securities in Mada- gascar, all ou tward investments, and inward direct investment. Some of the approval au thor i ty for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries, and all exchange transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be effected through such intermediaries. Import licenses, including those for gold, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Export authorizations are issued either by that Directorate or by other specified public agencies. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized intermediaries which may deal with the Cen- tral Bank only in French f rancs or in the other quoted currencies (see footnote 2). Nonresident Accounts The principal type of nonresident account is the Foreign Account in Malagasy Francs. These accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized transactions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a Foreign Account, they must be credited to a Special Account, balances in which may 1 On May 15, 1982 the Ma lagasy au thor i t ies announced tha t, with e f fect f r om May 17, 1982, the Ma lagasy f r a nc wou ld be deva lued by 13 per cent in t e rms of the cu r r en cy composite to wh ich it is pegged; th is invo lved a change f r om FMG 303.21 = US$1 to FMG 350.92 = US$1, or a deva lua t ion of 13.6 per cent. 2 Belgian f r an c s, deu tsche m a rk, I ta l ian lire, Ne the r lands guilders, pounds s te r l ing, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. be used by the holder for personal expenses in Mada- gascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day for the account holder and FMG 10,000 a day for each accompanying family member. Imports and Import Payments Importers require the approval of the Ministry of Economy and Commerce before they are permitted to engage in import activities. Imports are grouped into two broad categories: those authorized w i th in the f rame- work of the annual import program and those that are prohibited. There are two categories of quotas, those open to merchants and those open to industrial enter- prises and other importers who are final users of the product. Imports of f ru it juices are conditional upon purchases of domestic f ru it juices. The import of cer- t a in items, inc lud ing alcoholic beverages, rice, wheat flour, vegetable oils, and cement, is reserved for the Regie Malgache des Monopoles Fiscaux and the government-owned trad ing firms (Roso, SINPA, and SON AGO ). All import transactions valued at FMG 10,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The settlement of all import transactions is subject to prior au thor iza t ion by the Central Bank. This central bank au thor iza t ion for each transaction is represented by a certificate, issued by the commercial bank concerned, which is required to clear the merchandise through customs. The import license entitles importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange (but not earlier than eight days before shipment when a documentary credit is opened). There are arrears on payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the M in is try of Finance and Planning. For some transactions the approval authority has been dele- gated to authorized intermediaries, either up to speci- fied limits or for any amount that is properly docu- mented. Residents may purchase foreign exchange for tourism subject to an annual limit of FMG 100,000 a person a year (FMG 50,000 for children under t e n ). Any fore ign exchange remaining a f ter return to Mada- gascar must be surrendered. For business travel, for- eign exchange may be purchased up to the equivalent of FMG 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of FMG 300,000 a year. Authorized banks may not sell foreign banknotes in excess of the equivalent of FMG 20,000 a person a trip for tourist or business travel. Applications for additional amounts, and appli- cations for exchange for any other type of travel, must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Applications for additional foreign exchange for bona 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR fide business trips and for medical treatment abroad are generally approved, but not for tourism. Allocations for d i f fe rent types of travel may not be combined with- out the prior approval of the Directorate of the Treasury. There are limits for educational expenses and certain other current invisibles. Dividends are transferable in fu ll when distributed by industrial firms and up to 75 per cent in other cases; they may be transferred only to nonresident physical or jur id ical persons of fore ign na t iona l i ty. There have been delays in the remittance of certain payments for invisibles which have led to an accumulation of arrears. The t rans fer of savings from wages and salaries earned by a foreigner working in Madagascar is permitted, upon presentation of his work contract and employment permit, and provided that the t r an s f er takes place within three months of the pay period. The amoun ts allowed are up to 25 per cent of the net salary for bachelors and persons having their fam i ly in Madagascar, and up to 45 per cent for those whose fam i ly lives outside Madagascar (100 per cent for both categories dur ing leave spent outside Madaga sca r ); in all cases, the transferab le amount may not exceed FMG 300,000 a person a month. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign coun- tries may take out up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bank- notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any rema in- ing foreign banknotes and coin and other foreign means of payment declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to all destinations require an export permit (autorisation d'exportation) issued by the Directorate of External Trade or the appropriate commodity stabili- zation office. Export proceeds received in foreign cur- rencies must be surrendered; such proceeds normally must become due not later than one month af ter arrival of the goods at their destination unless the Directorate of the Treasury waives this requirement. All commer- cial export transactions valued at FMG 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary, and the exporter must sign a commitment to repatriate the fore ign currency proceeds. The government-owned trading firms (COROI, Roso, SICE, SINPA, SONACO, and SOMACODIS) have a monopoly over exports of certain important commodities such as coffee, cloves, pepper, and butter beans. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds accru- ing in those countries or f rom nonresidents, must be repatriated within one month of the due date. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of means of payment denominated in a foreign cur- rency and up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy banknotes. 286 Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries and between residents and nonresidents are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Special controls are maintained over bor- rowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct investments in Madagascar,3 require prior approval of the Minister of Finance and P lann ing ( the Directorate of the T rea su ry ). Malagasy direct investments abroad4 are prohibited w i thout special authorization from the M in is try of Finance and Plan- ning. The total or partial l iqu ida t ion of such invest- ments must be declared to the M in is t ry of Finance and Planning. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of direct investments, whether these are Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each transaction. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company, but such par- ticipation is subject to prior declaration to the M in is try of Finance and Planning. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of for- eign securities in Madagascar requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance and Planning. Exempt f rom authorization are operations in connection with shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Borrow- ing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Planning, although loans con- tracted by authorized banks or credit institutions with special legal status are exempt. Lending abroad is sub- ject to authorization by the M in is try of Finance and Planning. In accordance with the Investment Code of Septem- ber 19, 1973, foreign or domestic enterprises of special importance to the economy may be granted preferen t ial treatment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agrement). Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, import licenses, the introduction of quotas for competing imports, etc. The same bene- fits may be granted temporarily to investments not qua l i fy ing for an "order of approval." Exceptional treatment beyond the benefits provided for by the Investment Code and other existing legislation may be granted in a participation contract (contrat de partici- pation). 3 In c lud ing those m ade by compan ies in Madagascar that are d i rec t ly or indirectly under fo re ign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Madagascar of fore ign companies. * Inc lud ing those made th rough fore ign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Madagascar and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Madagascar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Madagascar. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Exempt f rom this require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank; (2) imports and exports of manu- fac tured articles con ta in ing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated ar t ic les); and (3) imports by travelers of gold jewelry and other articles of gold up to 500 grams a fam i ly and numis- matic items up to 200 grams a fam i ly. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt f rom license, are subject to customs declaration. Newly mined gold must be surrendered to the Directorate of Industry and Mines, which, in principle, must deliver it to the Central Bank after processing. MADAGASCAR Changes during 1981 February 5. Foreign exchange allocations for for- eign travel were tightened as follows: (a) the annual l im it for tourist travel abroad was reduced from FMG 150,000 to FMG 100,000 a traveler ( f rom FMG 70,000 to FMG 50,000 for a child under ten y e a r s ); (b) a limit of FMG 300,000 a person a year was introduced for business travel, replacing the pre- vious limit of FMG 200,000 a person for an un l im i ted number of trips a year. (The daily limit of FMG 10,000 for business travel remained in force .) In addition, imports of new or used automobiles by natural or ju r id ical persons were made subject to prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Economy; such automobiles may not be resold within the first five years following their arrival in Madagascar. 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malawi is the Malawi Kwacha, which is pegged to the SDR at MK 1.054074 = SDR 1. The middle rate of the Malawi kwacha for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, quoted by the Reserve Bank of Malawi is determined on the basis of the daily calcu- lations of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1981 the Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 0.9079 and MK 0.9147, respectively, per US$1. The Reserve Bank also quotes buying and selling rates for the deutsche mark, the South A f r ican rand, the pound sterling, the Zambian kwacha, and the Zimbabwe dollar, which are deter- mined on the basis of the appropriate daily cross rates in the London market. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank under authority delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Import policy is formulated by the Minister of Trade and Industry, who also is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Malawi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident account main- tained by the recipient or in any convertible foreign currency1 traded in Malawi. Payments f rom residents of other countries may be received in Malawi kwacha f rom a nonresident account or in any convertible for- eign currency. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other countries are designated nonresident accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds f rom sales of any convertible foreign currency, with authorized payments in Malawi kwacha by residents to foreign countries, and with transfers f rom other nonresident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose and may be transferred freely to other nonresident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for pay- ments to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Malawi. Blocked Accounts in Malawi kwacha are held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Malawi. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of bal- ances of Blocked Accounts in an approved manner. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferab le to the account holder's country of residence. 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi kwacha are considered foreign currencies. 288 Imports and Import Payments For a number of items2 import licenses are required regardless of the country of origin. All other goods3 may be imported under an open general license when or ig ina t ing in Commonwealth countries or in non- Commonwealth countries that are members of the GATT (except Po land ). For other countries (includ- ing Po land) an import license is required for all com- modities except certain items that are free from licens- ing irrespective of origin, such as petroleum products, exposed cinematographic films, samples, and advertis- ing materials. Except with the permission of the exchange control authorities, payments for imports f rom all countries must be made af ter the arrival of the goods in Malawi. Applications for foreign exchange for these payments are referred to the exchange control authorities for fo rmal approval subject only to the presentation of relevant import documents. Any t ran s fer of funds in an t ic ipa t ion of imports is prohibited, except with the permission of the exchange control authorities. Pay- ments against sight letters of credit and sight bills of exchange are not permitted. Imports may be paid for in Malawi currency to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. In addition to a 3 per cent levy, a surcharge of 20 per cent is levied on most goods imported into Malawi, irrespective of or ig in; the surcharge is calculated on 120 per cent of the sum of the value for customs duty purposes and any customs du ty payable. For certain imports that are channeled through clearing and fo rwa rd ing agents, a prepayment of 50 per cent of the applicable port duties and clearing charges is required. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports require prior approval of the exchange control authori- ties. For other purposes such as foreign travel, foreign exchange is provided up to certain limits by authorized dealers without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic exchange allowance for private travel is MK 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of MK 600 a calendar year, and MK 10 a day for each child under 18 years of age, with a max imum of MK 300 a calendar year for children between 10 and 18, and of MK 200 a year for children under 10. Annual allowances are not cumulative but may be increased by up to 50 per cent if the traveler has not 2 Ce r ta in a g r i c u l t u r al and food p roduc t s, new (m i l i t a ry t y p e) and used c lo th ing, gold, sugar, wheat flour, cement, fer t i l izers, newsprint and cer ta in paper products, pencils, ball-point pens, office stapling machines and staples, p r in t ing inks, erasers, hand-operated number ing stamps, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammun i t ion, game traps, m ist nets, wild animals, live fish, cassava, and copyright articles. 3 A licensing system based on ta r i ff quotas and linked to purchases of domestic substitutes is applied to imports of clothing items under two ta r i ff headings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution applied for a travel allowance during the preceding three years. Allocations are subject to a combined max imum of MK 2,000 a year for a fam i ly traveling together. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is MK 40 a day, up to MK 400 a trip for any number of trips a year. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes such as education, medical trea tmen t, and fam i ly remittances. Applica- tions for amounts exceeding the s tandard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts and holding a temporary employment perm it are allowed to remit up to two th irds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to MK 20 in Malawi currency and the equivalent of MK 20 in foreign currency in addition to their basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed MK 100 in value are not allowed, unless the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that payment has been made or will be made in an appropriate manner to a resident of Malawi not later than six months a f ter the date of exportation. Certain commodities4 are sub- ject to export licensing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign cur- rency must be sold to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coin that may be imported by travelers, but not more than MK 20 in Malawi currency notes and coin may be imported. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, with the exception that the tak ing up of loans f rom abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval, which is normally granted, provided that the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are accept- able. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their invest- ments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country; there are no restrictions on the t rans fer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign-owned com- 4 Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy materials, and certain agricultural and animal products. MALAWI panics, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing. Residents may not purchase any fore ign securities w i thout specific exchange control approval. In general, residents are not permitted to t rans fer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, they are required to o f fer for sale to an authorized dealer any fore ign exchange that accrues to them. Residents requ ire prior approval to lend to nonresidents or to resident firms controlled d irec t ly or indirectly f rom outside Malawi. Approval to lend to nonresident-controlled firms may be withheld if it is felt there is excessive recourse to local borrow ing and that a firm has brought in insu f f ic ient wo rk ing capi- tal f rom abroad. All applications for emigrants' allowances must be submitted to the exchange control au thor i t ies for approval: ( 1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed exchange up to MK 15,000 whether single or married. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on departure, together with MK 500 for each child, up to a max imum of MK 8,000 for a fam i ly. (3) Unmarr ied persons under 50 years of age are allowed MK 3,000 on departure. (4) The balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but he is permitted to t rans fer to his new coun try of residence a sum equal to the original emigration allowance on each anniver- sary of his departure f rom Malawi, up to a max imum of MK 8,000. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any fo rm other than jewelry. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Industry in consultation with the M in is try of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and indus tr ial users. Changes during 1981 March 21. Import duties and excise taxes were raised by an average of 15 per cent on a wide range of con- sumer and luxury goods, including sugar, cigarettes, and beer. March 21. The requirement for an advance import deposit equal to 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports was abolished, and a levy of 3 per cent was imposed on all imports. 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malaysia is the Ringgit. The external value of the ringgit is determined on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of currencies of Malaysia's major trading partners. The exchange rate of the ringgit in terms of the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, is determined in the foreign exchange marke t, and the Central Bank of Malaysia intervenes in order to promote relative stability in the value of the ringgit-U.S. dollar rate and the U.S. dollar rates for all other currencies are determined on the basis of the ringgit-U.S. dollar rate and the U.S. dollar rates for those currencies in marke ts abroad. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1981 were M$2.2430 and M$2.2435, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates for all currencies to customers and are permitted to deal forward in all currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Malaysia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank administers exchange control throughout Malaysia on behalf of the Malaysian Gov- ernment, the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Most of the authority for approv- ing payments abroad is delegated to authorized banks. The authority for import control rests with the Central Government. The day-to-day administration of import control throughout Malaysia is carried out jointly by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and the Royal Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency All payments to countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made either in ringgit through an External Account or in any currency other than Israeli and South Afr ican currencies. Receipts f rom exports to countries other than Israel and South Africa must be obtained according to the time of payment specified in the commercial contract but subject to a maximum period of six months f rom the date of expor- tation, either in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settle- ments with Israel and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts The accounts in ringgit of residents of countries other than Malaysia are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External 290 Accounts. There are no restrictions on debits to External Accounts. Credits to these accounts for whatever pur- pose are freely permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$5,000; the proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to External Accounts. For amounts exceed- ing M$5,000 and up to M$2 million permission may be given by commercial banks; above M$2 million, permis- sion is given by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any currency except Israeli and South Afr ican currencies. Accoun ts of residents of Israel and South A f r ica are designated as Israeli Accounts and South A f r ican Accounts, respectively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tar iffs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have been fu l ly unified, although a permit is still required for the movement of a few goods between the three territories of Malaysia for reasons of health and also to protect a few local indus t r ies in Sabah and Sarawak. Most imports are permitted freely. Depending on the na tu re and origin of the goods, specific licenses are required for certain imports for reasons of health, security, or pub l ic policy; various conditions must be satisfied before licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quan t i ta t ive restric- tions as a temporary measure to protect local industries; these restrictions are reviewed f rom time to time. Imports from Israel and South Afr ica (or any terri- tory administered by these coun tr ies) are prohibited. Imports from the People's Republic of China are sub- ject to specific license, and applications to import must be submitted through PERNAS, except for items that are perishable or subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. Imports of motor vehicles are subject to specific licensing with quantitative restriction. Movements of live animals between Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak are subject to movement perm i ts issued by the Veterinary Department. Imports of live animals (except sheep and goats), bones, and bone meal from Brunei, Bu rma, Indonesia, Democratic Kampuchea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Thailand, and Viet Nam require a specific license. Imports of primates are pro- hibited f rom all sources, except under specific license. Payment for permitted imports is allowed a f ter exchange control requirements have been met. Virtually all imports into Malaysia (including Penang but excluding Labuan) are subject to a surtax of 5 per cent ad valorem. Essential goods, such as rice, salt, and kerosene, are exempt, and a drawback may be granted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution on raw materials for use in the manu fac tu re of exports. In addition, most imports in to Malaysia (excluding L abu an) are subject to a sales tax; the s tandard rate of tax is 5 per cent but for certain luxury goods it is 10 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel and South A f r ica may be made without restric- tion a f ter exchange control requ i remen ts have been met. There are no restrictions on the amount of fore ign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits on all bona fide investments are permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts in excess of M$5,000. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than M$5,000 in Malaysian notes may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers. There are no restrictions on the export of currency notes of other countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South A f r i ca are totally pro- h ib i ted. The customs areas and export control systems between the three territories of Malaysia have been harmonized. Exchange control fo rms have to be com- pleted and authorized by banks in Malaysia for exports valued at M$5,000 f.o.b. or more ( f or exports to Indonesia, fo rms are not required except where exports are valued at more than M$ 100,000). Proceeds from exports must be received according to the time of pay- ment specified in the commercial contract, but subject to a max imum period of six mon ths f rom the date of export, either in a specified currency or in ringgit obtained f rom the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia. Exports of rubber f rom Peninsular Malay- sia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports of cement, scrap iron, steel bars, formic acid, wheat flour, rice bran, and sugar are subject to licensing. Also subject to licensing are exports of all textiles, cer ta in confectionery items, tiles, fish meal, bricks, "dollar area goods," and other goods as specified in the second schedule of the Customs (Prohibition of Expor ts) Order, 1978, of the 1967 Customs Act. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control authorities do not regulate exchange receipts from invisibles, but receipts from exports are subject to exchange control. Travelers may bring in up to M$ 10,000 in Malaysian currency notes; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Malaysian notes. No limitations are imposed on the import by travelers of currency notes of other countries. Capital Inward investment covered by the guidelines issued on February 20, 1974 (regarding the acquisition of MALAYSIA assets, mergers, and takeovers) requires prior approval by the Foreign Investment Committee. The proceeds of investments may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the completion of exchange control formalities for amoun ts above M$5,000. Malaysian residents require approval for borrowings f rom nonresidents in either ringgit or in foreign currencies in excess of M$ 100,000. Companies in Malaysia controlled by non- residents are perm i t ted to borrow in Malaysia up to M$500,000 w i thout exchange control approval. The permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is free ly given for direct and por tfo l io inves tment by Ma lays ian residents in countries other than Israel and South A f r ica. Commercial banks are discouraged f rom giving loans to finance investments abroad; such f u n ds should be used to finance the expansion of produc t ive capacity in Malaysia. Gold Residents of Malaysia are perm i t ted to purchase, sell, borrow, lend, hold, or export gold, provided that the weight of ind iv idual bars and wafers does not exceed 100 grams. A trave ler may import, on one's own person or in personal luggage, any number of gold coins issued by the Cen tral Bank of Malaysia but only one piece of any other type of gold co in, medallion, bar, or wafer not exceeding 100 grams in weight. The importation of gold is otherwise regulated by specific license issued by the M in is try of Trade and Indus t ry, the policy being to l im it such impor ta t ion to authorized dealers who are required to quote daily buy ing and selling prices for the wafers that they retail to the public. Changes during 1981 August 7. It was announced tha t, as a matter of policy, commercial banks were discouraged from using funds mobilized w i th in Malaysia to finance investment abroad; such f u n ds should be used to finance the expan- sion of p roduc t ive capacity in Malaysia. October 23. Changes were made in the export and import system as follows: (a) the export duty on processed palm oil was reduced by about M$20 a ton, to take account of higher costs of ref in ing; (b) an export du ty of 5 per cent was imposed on crude and semirefined stearin; (c) import duties were reduced on certain durab le consumer goods, such as cameras, watches, and electrical appliances; and (d) the quanti- tative restrictions, import duties, surtax, and sales tax on impo rt items used by the lower-income groups were reduced or in some cases abolished. October 28. All government trade and commercial transactions with the United Kingdom were required to be referred to the Prime Minister's office for approval and to be accompanied by an alternative non-British source. 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Maldives is the Maldivian Rufiyaa, which replaced the Maldivian rupee on July 1, 1981. The market exchange rate of the ruf iyaa is set by the State Trading Organization (STO) under standing instructions to the commercial banks to buy foreign exchange at Rf 7.50 = US$1 and to sell at a small margin. Throughout 1981 the selling rate quoted by the banks was Rf 7.60 = US$1. Since April 1979 the STO has been responsible for the administration of the exchange regime, despite the establishment in July 1981 of the Maldives Monetary Au thor i ty (MMA ). The STO intervenes only by offering to sell rufiyaa at Rf 7.50 = US$1. No margins in respect of exchange transactions are officially maintained. The official rate of Rf 3.93 = US$1 has traditionally been used as an accounting rate among entities of the Government. During 1981 the role of the official rate was extended as the MMA was required to use this rate for all transactions. ernment's foreign exchange account. Travelers may f ree ly take out any amount in domestic or foreign currency, without any restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds The Government has a near monopoly, operated by the Depar tment of Trade and Foreign Inves tmen t, over the export of fresh fish. Export and re-export opera- tions are conduc ted on ly a f t er being registered and licensed at the Depa r tment of F inance. Export duties are levied on ambergris exported by a Ma ld iv ian, goods exported by a Ma ld iv ian j o i n t ly w i th a foreigner, and goods exported by a foreigner; re-exports are exempt. Exporters of dutiable goods are required to import goods or foreign exchange equal to the va lue of the goods exported, w i th in the period of t ime specified in the license. In the case of du ty - f ree exports, exporters must, upon request by the Gove rnmen t, import speci- fied goods in an amount not exceeding 33 per cent of the value of the goods exported. Administration of Control Proceeds from Invisibles There is no exchange control legislation. Exchange and trade controls are administered by the Department of Finance, which also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency There are no rules prescribing the currencies in which transactions between residents and nonresidents must be settled. In practice, all receipts by tourist resorts and guest houses are in U.S. dollars. No bilateral payments agreements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments The importation of alcoholic beverages and a few other items is restricted for reasons of public policy. Import operations may be conducted only after being registered and licensed at the Department of Finance. Foreign exchange needed to effect payments for imports by the private sector must be obtained in the foreign exchange market. Most staple commodities (including rice, sugar, wheat flour, and petroleum products) are imported by the State Trading Organization. Payments for Invisibles The private sector may make payments for all cur- rent invisibles through the foreign exchange market. Payments by the public sector are made from the Gov- Private sector receipts f rom cu r rent invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the foreign exchange market. Travelers may bring in any amount in domestic or foreign currency, without any restriction. Capital Residents and nonres iden ts may free ly import and export capital th rough the foreign exchange market, and residents do not requ ire permission to maintain foreign currency accounts at home or abroad. Inward direct investment requires approval. Transfers of profits are permitted, and exemptions from taxes other than tourism taxes may be granted for a period of up to ten years. Gold Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Residents may free ly hold and negotiate gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad, and the import and export of gold is not restricted. Changes during 1981 July 1. The name of the Maldivian currency was changed f rom rupee to ru f iyaa. July 1. Upon the establishment of the Maldives Monetary Authority, the role of the official exchange rate was extended as the Monetary Au thor i ty was required to conduct all exchange transactions at R f 7 . 50 = US$1. 292 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mali is the Mali Franc, which is pegged to the French f ranc, the intervention currency, at the rate of MF 1 = F0.01. There is also a fixed rate for CFA francs of MF 2 = CFAF 1. The official buying and selling rates for the French f ranc are MF 100 per F 1. All exchange transactions in French francs take place at that official rate. Exchange rates for all other currencies that are officially quoted on the Paris exchange ma rket are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures re la t ing to gold, Mali's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Commerce has sole authority in exchange control matters; certain exchange control powers have been delegated to authorized banks. The Central Bank of Mali is responsible for the control over repatriation of export proceeds. The bilateral payments agreement accounts1 are operated by the Development Bank of Mali. Licenses for imports and exports are issued by the Directorate-General of Eco- nomic A f fa i rs in the Ministry of Finance and Com- merce Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral paymen ts agreements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agree- ments. Since Mali is an Operations Account country, set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Mali francs, French f rancs, or the currency of any Opera- tions Account country. Settlements with all other coun- tries with which no payments agreement is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French f rancs through Foreign Accoun ts in Francs. Settlements 1Ma li ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements with the People's Republic of China, Hunga ry, Morocco, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. With the exception of those with the People's Republic of China and the U.S.S.R., these agreements are inoperative. with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mau r i tan ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are nor- mally made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are, in principle, based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments The import licensing system introduced in 1977 distinguishes five categories of imports: ( 1) imports subject to quotas and requiring an import license (Reg ime A ); (2) imports admitted freely and requiring only an import certificate (Regime B ); (3) imports w i thout settlement in foreign exchange (Regime C ); (4) imports by government monopolies (Regime D ); and (5) imports subject to special prohibitions for reasons of security, public health, etc. (Regime E ). Imports originating in a member country of the West A f r ican Economic Community are subject to Regime B; some products from EC countries, such as foodstuffs and other basic necessities not reserved for state monop- olies, are also included in Regime B. Other products f rom the EC countries, such as luxury consumer goods and products that compete with local production, are subject to quota under Regime A, as are all commodities f rom all other countries. Imports financed directly f rom fore ign resources, e.g., from grants, fore ign invest- ment, or development loans, are admitted virtually freely under Regime C. Specified foods tu f fs (including sugar, tea, salt, milk, and canned tomatoes), tobacco products, and fertilizers can only be imported by state agencies designated as monopolies under Regime D. Imports from Israel, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports are licensed in accordance with an annual import program. A license is valid for six months but, if necessary, may be extended for a fu r ther three months. However, the system is implemented flexibly, and licenses in excess of the program are issued for jus t i f ied need or unforeseen circumstances; thus in both 1978 and 1979 licenses issued have exceeded the amount originally programmed. Imports may be made by either private importers or state enterprises, among the most important of which is the Societe Malienne d'Import-Export (SOM IEX ), with its monopoly over basic commodities. An allocation commission establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his turnover. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are subject to approval. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to MF 500,000 a person (MF 250,000 for children under 10), which may be allotted on several occasions dur ing the year; any foreign exchange remaining a f ter re turn to Mali must be surrendered. For business travel, the allocation is the equivalent of MF 50,000 a day, subject to a max imum of MF 500,000 a trip.2 The t rans fer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permit- ted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three mon ths of the pay period or where there is a reciproc- ity agreement with the foreigner's coun try of na t ion- ality. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of MF 50,000 in Mali banknotes, French banknotes, or bankno tes issued by other Opera- tions Account countries (MF 5,000 for trips of less than 24 hou rs ). Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of MF 200,000; higher amounts may be taken out only if declared upon entry. They may also take out MF 50,000 in Mali banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by other Oper- ations Account countries, and any payments instruments drawn up abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be recorded with an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, including those originating in France and other Operations Account countries, must be repa tr ia ted and surrendered within 90 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. Exports to countries outside the West A f r i- can Economic Community require individual licenses; those to countries of the West African Economic Com- mun i ty require only a certificate. The export of cotton and groundnuts is reserved, in principle, for SOMIEX. 2 Exchange for tourist travel purposes is made available only to persons submitting an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Security Services. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transac t ions in invisibles with France (as defined abov e ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and non- resident travelers may br ing in any amount of bank- notes and coin issued by the Central Bank of Mali, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bankno tes and coin (except gold co in) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Mali, France (as defined abov e ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital t r an s f e rs to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in add i t ion to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, although the Development Bank of Mali is exempt f rom these controls. The special control measures also do not apply to relations with France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries. Under an Inve s tment Code of March 30, 1976, the Government may grant special privileged status, pro- viding for transfer, tax, and other preferential treatment to fore ign investments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic Plan. Gold Travelers may export gold jewelry and personal belongings, other than gold coin and ingots, up to a maximum weight of 500 grams. Commercial imports and exports of gold do not require authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce but are subject to customs declaration as prescribed by the customs regulations. Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 294 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ma l ta is the Malta Pound. The value of the Ma l ta pound is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Malta pound and a trade-weighted basket of currencies1 representing Malta's important t rad ing par tners. The Central Bank of Malta fixes da i ly buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, by we igh t ing the var ia t ions in the closing quo ta t ions of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the previous day in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. In dealings w i th the commercial banks, a spread of 0.25 per cent is applied between the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$2.5855 and US$2.5791, respectively, per £M 1. The Central Bank also quotes daily rates for various other currencies, inc lud ing the deutsche ma rk, the Italian lira, and the pound sterling, on the basis of the rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the principal exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank's basic rate (m idd le ra te) for the pound s ter l ing on December 31, 1981 was «£ stg. 1.3485 per <£M 1. The commercial banks' rates for currencies not quoted by the Central Bank are based on market rates in London and New York. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank, as agent for the M in is ter of Finance; trade con- trols are administered by the Director of Trade in the M in is try of Trade. The approval au thor i ty for the allocation of fore ign exchange for certain purposes has been delegated to the authorized banks, which also may give or renew guaran tees for any purpose provided they hold fu ll cash cover in Ma l ta pound or foreign currency for the period of the guarantee. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Malta pounds to an External Account or in any fo re ign currency ,2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Ma l ta pounds f rom an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Malta may ma in- tain with authorized banks nonres ident accounts in Malta pounds, designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited free ly with authorized pay- 1 Deutsche ma rk, French f ranc s, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other Malta pound. than the ments to nonresidents, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of gold or any fore ign currency ( inc lud ing bankno tes ). External Accounts may be debited f ree ly for payments to residents, for transfers to other External Accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any fore ign currency ( inc lud ing b a n k n o t e s ). Authorized dealers may free ly open and ma in ta in Foreign Currency Accounts for nonresidents. These accounts may be credited w i th paymen ts in foreign currency to the account holder, w i th t ran s fe rs f rom ano ther fore ign currency account belonging to a non- resident, and with interest payable on fore ign currency accounts. They may be debited for paymen ts by the account holder to residents, for t rans fe rs to other Foreign Currency Accounts, and for t rans fe rs abroad. Subject to exchange control permission, companies controlled by nonresidents or residents may ma in ta in fo re ign currency accounts in Malta or abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South A f r ica are subject to specific licensing. Imports of certain items are prohibited; imports of all other commodities are, in principle, subject to either state trad ing or licensing requirement. Imports subject to state t rad ing inc lude commodities regarded as essential, such as t inned m i lk, butter, meat, livestock for slaughter, wheat, barley, corn, potatoes, soybean oil, rice, sugar, tinned meat and fish, cheese, coffee, tea, f ru i t, cement, steel, and timber. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that the prescription of currency regulations are com- plied with and that supporting documents, inc lud ing the customs entry form, are submitted to the inter- med iary bank. As a form of exchange cover, and sub- ject to exchange control approval, residents may keep fore ign currency accounts to settle import payments; on the same basis, import payments may also be offset against export proceeds. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities but approval au tho r i ty for most types of payment has been delegated to autho- rized banks. For residents, there is a s tandard exchange allocation for tourist travel of the equivalent of £M 2 50 a person a trip, and a business travel allow- ance of <£M 250 a trip or < £M 50 a day ( for up to 30 days a t r i p ), whichever is the larger. There is also an allowance for educational expenses abroad of <£M 3,000 a person for an academic year.8 Applications 3 For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and s tudy, resi- dents are defined as physical persons who are at the t ime l iv ing in Malta and either have lived there for at least three years or intend to continue living there for at least three years. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA for allowances in excess of these amounts are approved by the Central Bank if it is satisfied that no illicit capital outflow is involved. Nonresident travelers may import any amount of foreign currency and may export foreign currency up to the amount brought in by them and declared to the customs authorities on entry into Malta. In addition, any traveler may export up to <£M 25 in Malta notes and coin. The transfer of profits, dividends, and interest f rom approved foreign investments requires central bank permission, which is normally given, a f ter compliance with certain formalities. Life insurance expressed in Malta currency may be contracted only with insurance companies that are duly licensed as required under the Insurance Business Act, 1981. Remittances for the maintenance of dependents abroad are allowed on application showing evidence of hardship. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of works of art and certain essential goods, all commodities may be exported freely. However, certain textile products for export to EC countries are subject to licensing. The proceeds of exports must be surrendered within six months of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may br ing in any amount in foreign currency notes, but without an authorization by the Minister of Finance, importation of any notes and coin which are or have been legal tender in Malta is permitted only up to <£M 50. Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts, although receipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Payments abroad of a capital nature require prior approval. Applications for outward direct investment by residents and for direct investment in Malta by nonresidents are considered on the ir merits. The Immovable Property (Acquisition by Non res iden ts) Act, 1974, administered by the M in is try of Finance, prohibits the acquisition of immovable property in Malta by nonresidents,4 with the exception of certain special cases mainly related to economic development. Applications for the acquisition of property for use as a residence by individuals who do not already hold property in Malta are given favorable consideration. The Central Bank has delegated to authorized dealers the authority to approve the acquisition of foreign 4 For the purpose of this Act, the te rm nonres iden ts means (1) individuals who are not residents of Malta; (2) any association of persons, or any entity, whe ther corporate or not, if (a) it is registered outside Malta, or (b) it has its principal place of resi- dence or of business outside Ma l ta, or (c) 20 per cent or more of its share or other capital is owned by a nonresident person, or (d) it is in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, controlled by one or more nonresident persons. 296 investments up to the equ iva lent of £ M 500 a person a calendar year by resident persons over 18. Purchases of personal real estate situated outside Ma l ta in excess of the « £M 5 00 l im it requ ire prior exchange control approval. Foreign nationals who take up residence outside Malta no rma l ly are allowed to t r a n s f er all their assets to their new coun t ry of residence. Maltese nationals who em igra te may t r a n s f er abroad up to £M7 ,500 for each f am i l y; any excess amount is normally released three years a f t er the da te of depar- tu re on application to the Cen t ral Bank. Banks, other than those licensed to bo r row and lend on ly outside Ma l ta, are restricted in the acqu is i t ion of net fore ign assets. Gold Ma l ta has issued 22 denom ina t ions of gold coin which are legal tender. Residents are allowed to hold coin and to acquire jewelry, but they requ ire exchange control permission to purchase and sell any gold coin that is not legal tende r. The import of gold coin is controlled to ensure that such coins are g enu in e ly for num isma t ic purposes. A specific import license is required for imports of gold coin, gold bu l l ion, and manu fac tu red or sem imanu fac tu red articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold or silver are pro- h ib i ted. Subject to exchange control perm iss ion, autho- rized impor ters may import gold bu l l ion on ly for the purpose of supplying jewelers and other indu s t r i al users. The export of gold by residents o ther th an the mone- tary au thor i t ies also requires exchange control per- mission. Gold bullion and gold coin are f ree of import duty. Changes during 1981 March 24. The I ta l ian l ira was removed f rom the currency basket and its weight was a l loca ted to the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen. In add i t ion, to restore the basic pos i t ion of the U.S. do l lar to what it was prior to the deva lua t ion of the I ta l ian l i ra, the opening m idd le rate of exchange of the Ma l ta pound against the U.S. dollar was set at US$2.7000. May 7. The opening m idd le ra te of the Ma l ta pound vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar was changed to US$2.6500 per <£M 1 in order to restore the position aga inst the U.S. dollar to what it was when the basket for the Ma l ta pound was reviewed in March 1981; th is repre- sented an apprec ia t ion of the Ma l ta pound by 3.7 per cent, compared w i th a ra te of US$2.5547 per <£M 1 that would be derived on the basis of the cu r rency basket prevailing prior to the review. The we igh ts were revised to take in to account the ac tual t rade flows for 1980 and the sharp ly increased ou t lays on oil impo r ts. In add i t ion, the Belgian f r a nc was removed f r om the currency basket and its weight was assigned to the Japanese yen. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mau r i tan ia is the Maur i tan ian Ouguiya. The exchange rate for the ougu iya is deter- mined on the basis of a basket of currencies comprising the Belgian f r an c, the deutsche mark, the French f ranc, the I ta l ian l i ra, the pound sterling, the Spanish peseta, and the U.S. dollar. The relative weights assigned to each currency are based on that currency's relative importance in Mau r i tan ia 's total exchange transac t ions and are revised every three months. The opening spot rates of the currencies in the basket against the U.S. dol- lar on the Paris exchange ma rket are then compared w i th the exchange rates preva i l ing on specified base dates. The a r i thme t ic average of the sum of the weighted var ia- tions arising from this comparison results in either a plus or a m inus overall va r ia t ion of the U.S. do l lar in terms of the other currencies in the baske t; this var ia t ion is then applied to the ouguiya-U.S. dollar rate preva i l ing on June 29, 1973 ( UM 46.041 = US$1 ), thus ob ta in ing the reference ra te for the dollar on the specific day. Daily exchange rates for 15 other currencies,1 inc lud ing the currencies used in the basket, are obtained from the daily reference rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the Paris exchange marke t. The b u y i ng and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1981 were UM 4 8 . 57 and UM 49.31, respectively, per US$1. Mau r i tan ia confines the official exchange rate for the ouguiya w i th in marg ins of 4.5 per cen t; at present it applies marg ins of zero per cent in respect of exchange transactions. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control au tho r i ty is vested in the Central Bank and the M in is ter of Finance. The Central Bank has delegated some approval au tho r i ty to authorized banks. The Cen t ral Bank is au tho r ized to obtain any in fo rma t ion necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transac t ions relating to fore ign countries must be effec ted th rough au thor ized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Trade Department in the Ministry of Com- merce. All import licenses require exchange control approval by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency All settlements w i th Israel and South A f r i ca are pro- h ib i ted. Settlements w i th other coun tr ies usua l ly take place in convertible currencies. 1 A u s t r i an schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche m a r k, French f ranc s, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Moroccan d i rhams, Ne the r lands guilders, No rweg ian k ron e r, pounds s ter l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rone r, and Swiss f ranc s. Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of non res ident accounts in domestic cu r rency: Convertible Accounts, which may be credited only w i th proceeds f r om the sale of fo re ign currency or transfers f rom other Conver t ib le Accounts, and In te rnal Nonres ident Accoun ts, wh ich may be credited with domestic bankno tes. Convertible Accounts may be debited for any payment w i thout Cen tral Bank approval, but payments to and w i thd rawa ls f rom these accounts may not be made in fo re ign bankno tes w i thout special approval f rom the Cen tral Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel and South A f r i ca are p roh ib i ted, and imports of a few goods are p roh ib i ted for reasons of hea l th or public policy. Only holders of impo r te r- exporter cards are pe rm i t ted to engage in import t rans- actions. Imports of all commodities must be au thor ized by the Cen t ral Bank. The Na t ional Impo r t -Expo rt Cor- po ra t ion (SON IMEX) has a monopoly over impor ts of sugar, rice, and green tea. A l though there is no fo rmal import program, authorizations can be denied if the vo lume of impo r ts in any period is deemed excessive. There are some a r rea rs on import payments. Import t ransac t ions must be dom ic i led w i th an au tho- rized bank, except in the case of impor ts "w i thout pay- ment." A f t er the approval of the Cen tral Bank has been ob ta ined, the import license en t i t les the impo r ter to pu r- chase the necessary exchange, but not ear l ier th an ten days be fo re shipment if a do cum en t a ry credit is opened or eight days before the p aym ent is due if the commod i- ties have already arrived. Advance paymen ts for impor ts require prior approval by the Central Bank. The Central Bank authorizes on ly the payment of import bills quot- ing f.o.b. or c. & f. prices, and all impor ts must be insured w i th the M au r i t an i an State In su rance Company ( SM A R ). There are special a r rangemen ts for impo r ts in border areas. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts to Israel and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Paymen ts for invisibles to other countries are subject to the approval of the Cen tral Bank, which has delegated its approval au tho r i ty for certain specified paymen ts to authorized banks. Basic exchange allocations have been established for va r ious types of invisibles. For tou r ist travel, residents may obtain an annual exchange a l loca t ion equ iva lent to UM 10,000 a person (UM 5,000 for ch i ldren under t e n ). For bus iness travel, the a l loca t ions are the equ iva lent of UM 50,000 a person a tr ip to A f r i c an countries, UM 90,000 to Europe, and UM 120,000 to other desti- nations. The use of all travel allocations must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet. The t rans fer of 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA savings f rom salaries by fore igners wo rk ing in Mauri- tan ia is permitted up to va ry ing percentages, according to fam i ly status. At the end of their stay in Mau r i tan ia, they may t ran s fer all their assets abroad. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all countries in excess of UM 5,000 must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Exporters must sign an under- t ak ing to repa t r ia te and su r render the foreign exchange proceeds. Exports to all coun tr ies require au thor iza t ion and endorsement by the Central Bank. Export proceeds must be surrendered not later than the due date of the paymen t, which no rma l ly must not be more than 60 days a f t er shipment. Exports of gum arabic are the monopoly of SONIMEX, and exports of iron ore, copper concen- trates, and gypsum are the monopoly of the National Indus tr ial and M in ing Company ( SN IM ). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sur- rendered. All amounts due from nonresidents in respect of services and all income earned abroad f rom foreign assets must be collected and surrendered w i th in four months of the due date of the payment. The impor ta t ion of domestic bankno tes by travelers is prohibited. Capital Transfers of capital between Mau r i tan ia and Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Mau r i tan ia and all fore ign countries are subject to exchange control; capital transfers to all countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts norma l ly are permitted free ly, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indicated below. All investments abroad by residents require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Foreign direct investments in Mau r i tan ia2 and Mau r i tan ian direct inves tmen ts ab road8 must be declared to the Central Bank be fo re they are made. The Cen tral Bank has the r ight to request the pos tponement of the projects w i th in a period of 15 days f rom receipt of the declaration. The f u ll or pa r t ial liquidation of inwa rd or ou twa rd invest- men ts also requires a dec lara t ion. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of inves tmen ts, whe ther these are Mau r i- tan ian investments abroad or fo re ign inves tmen ts in Mau r i tan ia, must be reported to the Central Bank within 20 days fo l low ing each operation. Direct investments are defined as inves tmen ts imp ly ing con trol of a com- pany or en terpr ise. Mere pa r t ic ipa t ion is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the cap i tal of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, adver t is ing, or o f f e r ing for sale of fore ign securities in Maur i tan ia requires prior au thor iza t ion by the Central Bank, as does bo r row ing by residents f rom nonresidents. The Inves tment Code (O rd inance No. 79046 of March 15, 1979) provides for va r ious benefits for pri- vate inves tmen ts in Mau r i tan ia and stipulates that profits and dividends accruing f rom such investment can be transferred freely. Gold Residents are f ree to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in M au r i t an i a. All imports and exports of gold require prior au thor iza t ion by the Central Bank. Exempt f rom this requirement are impor ts and exports by the Central Bank and of m anu f a c tu r ed articles con- ta in ing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes during 1981 June 22. With effect f rom June 23, new exchange allowances for business travel were established as fol- lows: UM 50,000 a person a trip to A f r ican countries, UM 90,000 to Europe, and UM 120,000 to other des- t ina t ions (Ins truc t ion No. 002 /GR /81, dated June 22, 1981). 2 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Mau r i tan ia that are directly or ind irec t ly under fo re ign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Mau r i tan ia of fore ign companies. 3 Inc lud ing those made through fo re ign companies that are directly or ind irec t ly controlled by persons in M au r i t an ia and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Mau r i tan ia. 298 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position on December 31,1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Maur i t ius is the Mauritian Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at Mau Rs 12.0 = SDR 1, or SDR 0.08 = Mau Re 1. A rate of M a u R s lO = SDR 1 is applied for payment of government imports of rice and flour. The middle rates of the Mauritian rupee for the pound sterling, the intervention currency, and the U.S. dollar quoted by the Bank of Mauritius are determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the pound sterling-SDR ra te and the U.S. dollar-SDR rate, respectively. The Bank of Mauritius applies mar- gins of 0.125 per cent to the buy ing rate and 0.25 per cent to the selling ra te in respect of exchange transac- tions in sterling and U.S. dollars, based on the fixed M au r i t i an rupee-SDR rate. On December 31, 1981 the buy ing and selling rates of the Bank of Mauritius for sterling were Mau Rs 19.6066 and Mau Rs 19.6800, respectively, per <£ stg. 1, and for the U.S. dollar the rates were Mau Rs 10.3166 and Mau Rs 10.3566, respectively, per US$1. Commercial banks are autho- rized to deal in sterling and U.S. dollars at rates based on the rates quoted by the Bank of Mauritius for these currencies. On December 31, 1981 the commercial banks' buying and selling rates for sterling were Mau Rs 19.563 and Mau Rs 19.75, respectively, per <£ stg. 1, and for the U.S. dollar the rates were Mau Rs 10.237 and Mau Rs 10.437, respectively, per US$1 (Mau Rs 10.280 and Mau Rs 10.437, respec- tively, per US$1 for transactions in excess of US$12,000). Buy ing and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the London market. Forward exchange facilities are made available by the Bank of Mauritius for industries operating in the Export Processing Zone and for banks engaged in foreign borrowing for on-lending to the sugar sector. The maximum period for forward cover is six months; the forward rates are based on a un i fo rm margin of 3 per cent a year. A stamp du ty of 45 per cent is applied to outward trans- fers of capital (other than banking funds) and pur- chases of gold coin and gold bullion. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated to it by the Finan- cial Secretary. The authority for approving virtually all current payments is in tu rn delegated to the com- mercial banks. The Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses, where required. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes Mauritius dis- 1The exchange control regulations of Mauritius define foreign cur- rencies as all currencies other than the Mauritian rupee. tinguishes between countries in the former Sterling A rea2 and External Account countries. Payments to residents of former Sterling Area countries may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any currency of the fo rmer Sterling Area. Pay- ments from residents of the former Sterling Area may be received in rupees f rom a Sterling Area Account in Maur i t ius or in any currency of the former Sterling Area. Payments to residents of countries outside the fo rmer Sterling Area may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account or an External Account -in Mauritius, in sterling to an Ex ternal Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Payments from residents of countries outside the former Sterling Area may be received in rupees from an External Account in Mauritius, in sterling from an External Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Nonresident Accounts There are two ma in types of nonresident accounts: Sterling Area Accounts and External Accounts. Sterling Area Accounts, which may be opened by persons and firms resident in countries of the former Sterling Area (see footnote 2 ), may be credited with ( 1) authorized paymen ts by residents of Mauritius; (2) any transfers f rom other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any paymen ts f rom External Accounts held in Maur i t ius or elsewhere in the former Sterling Area; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any fo re ign currency or gold by nonresidents of Mauritius. They may be debited for ( 1) payments f rom residents of the fo rmer Sterling Area to residents of Maur i t ius; (2) transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) transfers to Ex ternal Accounts in Mauri- t ius or elsewhere in the former Sterling Area in respect of which the permission of the exchange control autho- rities in the appropriate country has been given; and (4) the cost of purchase of any former Sterling Area currency. External Accounts may be opened by persons and firms resident outside both Mau r i t ius and the former Sterling Area. They may be credited with (1) autho- rized payments by residents of Maur i t ius; ( 2) payments f rom Sterling Area Accounts in respect of which the permission of the exchange control authorities of the appropriate coun try has been given; (3) any transfers from other External Accounts; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any non-Sterling Area currency or gold by nonresidents of Mauritius and the former Sterling Area. They may be debited for (1) any payments to residents of Mauritius; (2) any 2 The exchange control regulations of Mauritius define the Sterling Area as comprising the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, and the Republic of Ireland. 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS transfers to Sterling Area Accounts; ( 3) any transfers to other External Accounts; and (4) the cost of pur- chase of any foreign currency or gold. In addition to the above, there are also Blocked Accounts to which are credited funds owned by per- sons and firms resident outside Mauritius and realized from investments made by them prior to April 5, 1966, as well as funds representing emigrants' assets in excess of M a u Rs 100,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Mauritius that have been specifically authorized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from Blocked Accounts may, with approval, be invested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such investments, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Account. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be licensed under the Licenses Ordi- nance. There is a list of commodities (the third sched- ule of the Supplies (Import Licenses) Regulations 1981) for which a specific license from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is required, regardless of origin. Specific licenses for most items are issued on the basis of a quota; however, certain commodities (e.g., machinery, spare parts, raw materials for indus- tries, and specified food i tems ), which require specific licenses are not subject to quota. Certain essential goods not in the above-mentioned third schedule are not subject to a quota nor to a specific license and may be freely imported by traders holding an import license. In addition to an import license, importers must apply for exchange control approval to make the correspond- ing import payments, subject to compliance with the prescription of currency regulations. Certain imports are subject to customs surcharges, and a stamp duty of 5 per cent based on the c.i.f. value is levied on most imports. Importers of goods of lower priority may not avail themselves of suppliers' credits, and local com- mercial banks are prohibited from extending credit for such imports. The contracting of suppliers' credit of more than 90 days' duration in respect of other cate- gories of imports requires the prior approval of the Bank of Mauritius, except for imports effected by com- panies holding a development certificate or by com- panies in the Export Processing Zone. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. For- eign exchange for other purposes, such as foreign travel, may be provided up to specified limits by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic travel allow- ance is the equivalent of <£ stg. 400 a person for every two calendar years for travel to any country. There is a 10 per cent tax on all international air tickets pur- chased by Mauritian residents. The allowance for busi- 300 ness travel is the equivalent of <£ stg. 50 a day. Appli- cations for exchange for business travel are examined by the Bank of Mauritius. There are established limits for payments and transfers to former Sterling Area countries and to non-Sterling Area countries in respect of fam i ly support, salary remittances by non-Mauritian nationals, trade commissions, subscriptions to clubs and societies, publishing rights, advertising outside Mauri- tius, royalties, professionals and technical services, edu- cation, and leave salaries. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Residents and nonresident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic currency. Res ident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of ( 1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and ( 3) works of art are prohibited, unless per- mission is obtained f rom the Financial Secretary. All exports valued at more than Mau Rs 1,000 and all exports of food products valued at over Mau Rs 50 require a license f rom the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try. The Mau r i t ius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar. A tax rang ing from 6 per cent to 13.5 per cent, plus a surcharge of 75 per cent thereon, is levied on sugar exports. All export proceeds in any currency other than Mau r i t ian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. However, permission may be given to large export-import companies to retain export proceeds for a reasonable period of time to meet payments for imports. Exports of kn it shirts and sweaters of cotton, wool, and man-made fibers to the United States are effected under a bilateral export res tra int agreement covering the period up to September 30, 1985. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency other than Maur i t ian rupees must be offered for sale to an autho- rized dealer. There is no l im i ta t ion on the amount of foreign currency notes and coin that may be imported, but not more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coin may be imported by travelers. Capital Inward t ran s fe rs of capital are not restricted. Out- ward transfers of capital are subject to certain restric- tions. Nonbank residents of Mau r i t ius may, subject to permission, t ran s fer a reasonable amount of capital to any country on payment of a 45 per cent stamp duty. Nonresidents require permission to transfer capi- tal to any country; transfers are subject to the stamp duty of 45 per cent and, if directed toward a country ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution outside the fo rmer S ter l ing A rea by a resident of the former Sterling Area, require the prior approval of the exchange control au tho r i t ies of the former Sterling Area coun try concerned. Foreign-owned companies may f ree ly t r an s f er abroad dividends, prof i ts, and inter- est on cap i ta l. Permission for repa tr ia t ion of capital is not gran ted for cap i tal brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the coun try of origin, but, in normal circumstances, it is given for capital brought in on or a f t er that da te. Proceeds f rom the sale, l iqu ida t ion, etc., of fo re ign cap i tal t h at may not be repa t r ia ted must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Em ig ran ts may t a ke ou t, at the official ra te of exchange and free of s t amp du ty, the equivalent of Mau Rs 100,000 f rom their Mau r i t ian assets when emi- g ra t ing to any coun t ry; th is fac i l i ty is available upon redes igna t ion as a non res iden t, which occurs upon depar ture. The ba lance of an em igran t's funds must be credited for an inde f in i te period to a Blocked Accoun t; any releases that may be approved for trans- fer abroad are subject to payment of the 45 per cent stamp du ty. Persons em ig ra t ing f rom Maur i t ius are not en t i t led to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the em igra t ion fac i l i t ies. Gold Res iden ts o ther than the mone ta ry authorities are pe rm i t ted to ho ld gold for num isma t ic purposes ( inc lud- ing commemora t ive gold coins of Mau Rs 200 and Mau Rs 1,000) or as personal jewe lry and ornaments. The import and export of mone ta ry gold are prohibited, except when made by the mone ta ry authorities. Imports of gold for indu s t r i al purposes are subject to a quota and specific impo rt license. Exports of articles made wholly or par t ia l ly of gold, other than jewelry consti- tu t ing the personal e f fec ts of a traveler, are prohibited. Payments in respect of pr iva te imports of gold coin and gold bu l l ion are subject to the 45 per cent stamp duty. Imports of certain jewelry are subject to tem- porary customs surcharges. MAURITIUS Changes during 1981 May 5. The surcharge on ind i rect taxes was increased f rom 10 per cent to 21 per cent, with the exception of the surcharge on sugar. In add i t ion, the import duty on gasoline was raised f rom Mau Rs 11 a gallon to M a u Rs 13.50 a gallon. July L The stamp du ty on the t ran s fer of capital was increased f rom 36 per cent to 45 per cent. September 27. The M au r i t i an rupee was depreciated f rom Mau Rs 10.0 = SDR 1 to Mau Rs 12.0 = SDR 1 for all fore ign exchange t ransac t ions other than pay- ment for government impor ts of rice and flour where the ra te Mau Rs 10.0 = SDR 1 con t inued to apply. October 2. A b i la te ral export res t ra int agreement was signed w i th the Un i t ed States, whereby exports of k n it sh ir ts and sweaters of cotton, wool, and man-made f ibers f rom M a u r i t i us to the Un i t ed States were limited f rom October 1, 1981 to September 30, 1985. October 31. The coverage of the 5 per cent stamp du ty on impor ts was extended f rom 25 per cent of impor ts to 70 per cent of impor ts. (The remaining exemp t ions were items considered as essential, name ly, rice and flour, pulses, salt fish, kerosene and aviation fue l, public t ranspo rt equ ipmen t, and inputs for the Export Processing Zone and other export industries ho ld ing development certificates .) October 22. A new list of commodities was issued u n d er the th i rd schedule of the Supplies (Import Licenses) Regulations, 1981 for which specific licenses f rom the M in is t ry of Commerce and Indus try would be requ i red. Specific licenses for most items would be issued on the basis of a quo ta; however, certain com- mod i t ies (e.g., mach ine ry, spare parts, raw materials for indu s t ry, and certain food i tems) requ ir ing specific licenses would not be subject to a quo ta. Specified essential goods not in the above-mentioned third sched- ule would not be subject to a quota or a specific license and could be freely imported by traders holding an importer's license. 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mexico is the Mexican Peso. The authorities of Mexico do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities in tervene when necessary to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market. On Decem- ber 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Mex$26.06 and Mex$26.25, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange, and foreign exchange may be freely purchased or sold, there being no exchange restrictions of any kind. An exchange cover scheme is available for selected trans- actions; it is operated by the Bank of Mexico (the central b a n k) along the lines of swap arrangemen ts. On November 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared fo rma l ly to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or f rom nonresidents. In accordance with the paymen ts agreement with Yugo- slavia, paymen ts for direct commercial transactions and related expenses with that coun t ry handled through the Mexican bank ing system may, with the prior authoriza- tion of the Bank of Mexico, be made th rough a special account denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Bank of Mexico and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LA IA ). Similar arrangements exist for payments between Mexico and the Dominican Repub- lic, between Mexico and Cuba, and between Mexico and Iran. Payments to or from Costa Rica, El Salva- dor, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in U.S. dollars in accordance with a reciprocal credit and payment agree- ment between the central banks of those countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses f rom the Ministry of Commerce are required for about 27 per cent of the items in Mexico's General Import Ta r i f f, amounting to about 80 per cent of annual import value; the issuance of these licenses may be subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions. For some commodities "open end" import licenses may be granted allowing imports to be effected du r ing a period of six months to one year, subject to an overall limit; depend- 302 ing on the importer's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. Applications for import licenses are screened by the M in is try of Commerce w i th the aid of advisory councils comprising importers, producers, and consumers. For a small number of luxu ry items, no licenses are granted. Most import licenses are subject to the payment of a fee of between 1 per cent and 17 per cent of the value of the import transaction; the proceeds are allocated to a fund handled by the Mexican Foreign Trade Insti- tu te ( IMCE) for the promotion of exports. Official m i n im um prices are applied to about 9 per cent of import items for the purpose of assessment of import duties. Imports by official Mexican agencies are sub- ject to prior approval by the Ministry of Commerce; th is approval is not given if a comparable domestic equivalent is available at a price d ifferen t ial of 15-20 per cent. Paymen ts and t rans fe rs abroad may be made freely. All imports must be accompanied by an exporter's declaration of shipment. Virtually all imports, except imports included in the tariff negotiation rounds from LAIA countries and temporary imports, are sub- ject to an import surcharge of 2 per cent ad valorem, the proceeds of which accrue to an export t rust fund established with the Bank of Mexico. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. The con- tracting of insurance for persons in Mexico, or on prop- erty of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico, is permitted only with Mexican companies or with branches of foreign companies established in Mexico in accordance with Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses, and exportation of a few other specified items is prohibited. No exchange control requirements apply to export proceeds. Rebates of indirect taxes by means of a system of certificates (certificados de devolution de impuestos, or CEDIS) are gran ted on exports of certain manu fac tu red and sem imanu fac tu red products and of certain services. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements apply to proceeds f rom invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. New foreign investment in the capital of Mexi- can bank ing or insurance companies and investment funds is prohibited. Certain sectors, such as petroleum, basic petrochemical production, radioactive minerals, electricity and nuclear energy, certain mining activities, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution railroads, telecommunications, and other activities speci- fied by Mexican laws, are reserved for government inves tmen t. Investment in a number of activities is reserved exclusively for Mexican individuals or corpora- tions (radio and television, the public transportation system, forestry, etc., as well as any other areas speci- fied by the Federal Gove rnmen t ), while new invest- ments in other sectors must have a majority participation of Mexican capital. Foreign investments in Mexico must be registered with the National Foreign Investment Register in the Ministry of National Properties and Indus t r ial Development (SEPAF IN ). Applications by foreign na tural or juridical persons to acquire more than 25 per cent of the capital of a Mexican company require the prior authorization of SEPAFIN, af ter the National Foreign Investment Commission has granted the necessary registration. All acquisitions of stock in Mexican companies by foreigners must be registered w i th in 30 days. Borrowing abroad (or within Mexico in foreign currency) by the public sector and by state- owned banks is subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. Borrowing abroad by pri- vate banks is subject to certain requirements imposed by the Bank of Mexico; these banks are permitted to accept deposits denominated in foreign currency from residents as well as nonresidents but may not receive liabilities over US$400,000 from a single nonresident. Only investment banks and multinational banks oper- ating through their investment departments are allowed to accept time deposits in U.S. dollars. The interest rate on such deposits is fixed in relation to the correspond- ing Eurodollar rate in London. Financial operations in Mexico by foreign commercial banks must be made in accordance with guidelines set by the Bank of Mexico and the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit; peso loans by foreign commercial banks to the private sector in Mexico are prohibited. Gold Domestic transactions in nonmonetary gold are limited to purchases of gold bars by goldsmiths or manu fac tu re rs effected through authorized Mexican credit institutions. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell monetary gold in Mexico. There is a 10 per cent tax ( tax on value added) on sales of nonmone tary gold. Exports and imports of gold may require a license from the Bank of Mexico. Changes during 1981 January 2. The Government of Mexico issued a MEXICO decree specifying that three types of new gold coins would be issued in the near fu tu r e, with weights of one ounce, one half ounce, and one quarter of an ounce. January 8. Enterprises producing capital goods were given exemptions of up to 100 per cent of import duties on raw materials and parts bear ing duties of more than 5 per cent, if the goods are either not being produced in Mexico or their production is in short supply. March 24. Import licensing requirements were in tro- duced for 63 tariff items, basically luxury goods. March 27. Export duties were eliminated on 204 ta r i ff items consisting of seafood, wine, and chemical products. April 22. The m in imum official prices applicable for the purpose of the assessment of import duties on 12 tar iff items were amended; the products included wines, liquor, raw materials, and mach ine ry. April 23. Import duties were modified on 71 t a r i ff items, mostly freezing equipment for industry. May 13. Import duties were modified on 313 tar iff items, ma in ly live an ima l s, foods tu f fs, beverages, textiles, and machinery. June 22. The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit announced the elimination of the excess profit tax on sales of gold and silver, introduced in 1980. June 26. Import licensing requirements were intro- duced on 861 tar iff items, mainly metal work machinery, mechanical tools, and electrical appliances. July 17. Import duties were modified on 409 tar iff items, including chemical products, synthetic fibers, and industrial machinery. October 1. The Bank of Mexico announced the availability on the market of new gold coins (see entry for January 2, above). October 21. Import duties were modified on 120 tar iff items, including chemical products, tools, elec- tronic parts, tractors, and machinery. November 2. Import licensing requirements were in troduced for 202 ta r i ff items, ma in ly live an ima ls, da iry products, and chemical products. December 22. Export licensing requirements were introduced for 367 tariff items, including foods tu f fs, minerals, chemical products, and timber. December 30. Import licensing requirements were introduced for 828 tariff items, mostly foodstuffs, chemical oil and derivatives, leather fu rs, paper tex- tiles, machinery parts, vehicles, and musical instruments. 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan Dirham. The Bank of Morocco fixes buying and selling rates for the French franc daily on the basis of variations in the value of the currencies of Morocco's principal trading partners, weighted in accordance with the geographic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade. Buying and selling rates for most other currencies quoted in Morocco1 are established on the basis of the daily dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in relation to the French f ranc in the Paris exchange market. On December 31, 1981 the exchange rate for the French franc was DH 0.93223 buying and DH 0.93503 selling, per F 1. On the same date, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was fixed at DH 5.3202 buying and DH 5.3465 selling, per US$1. A special premium, called the "fidelity premium," is paid by the banks on remittances by Moroccans working in France; it is calculated to assure beneficiaries a con- version rate of DH 1 = F 1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to offset purchases and sales on behalf of private customers in each currency separately. Each day authorized banks must purchase f rom or sell to the Bank of Morocco the balances of their pur- chases and sales in each currency; transactions are effected at rates fixed by the Bank. Compensation between banks is not permitted so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco also establishes buying and selling rates for transactions with travelers in banknotes, travelers checks, and letters of credit denominated in "con- vertible currencies" (the currencies listed in footnote 1, including the French f ranc but excluding the Tunisian d ina r) and specified other currencies;2 the authorized banks sell to the Bank of Morocco their excess holdings of banknotes and replenish them at the Bank when necessary. A forward foreign exchange cover facility was established by the authorities effective June 1, 1979; the facility is available for exports as well as imports of nonconsumption items. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import cer- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. 2 CFA francs, Finnish ma rkkaa, Gibraltar pounds, Lebanese pounds, and Libyan dinars. Libyan dinars are traded only by the agencies of the Bank of Morocco, and on specified terms. 304 tificates and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce; they must be countersigned by the Exchange Office. Import commitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer himself; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the country of origin of the goods is not the country of shipment, or the goods are bought on a c.i.f. basis. A part of the port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxa t ion and f rom trade, customs, and exchange controls. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as follows: ( 1) the payments agreement group, comprising countries w i th which Morocco main- tains bilateral payments agreements;3 and (2) all other countries, the "area of convertibility." Certain noncommercial settlements w i th Algeria are made in dirhams or Algerian d inars through special accounts at the two central banks; all settlements with Tunisia are made through accounts denominated in convertible d irhams or Tun is ian convertible d inars, and all settlements w i th Mau r i tan ia are made through accounts denominated in convertible d irhams or con- vertible Mau r i tan ian ouguiyas. Settlements with the payments agreement group are made through the pay- ments agreement accounts. Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco. Other settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in "con- vertible currencies'7 negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: 1. Foreign Currency Accounts are held by physical or jur id ical foreign nationals, either resident or non- resident. These may be free ly credited with book transfers from abroad, w i th checks, travelers checks, or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, except foreign banknotes, and with foreign currency drawn from the Bank of Morocco fo l low ing general or special authorization by the Exchange Office. They may be freely debited for book t ran s fe rs abroad to the account holder or to a third party foreign national, for the surrender of fore ign currency to the Bank of Morocco, or for the payment of checks denominated in foreign currency. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for residents of countries in the area of con- 3 Guinea, Mali, and U.S.S.R. The agreemen ts w i th Gu inea and Mali are inoperative; the paymen ts ag reement w i th the U.S.S.R. was terminated at the end of 1981 and is in the process of liquidation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution vertibility. These accounts may be credited free ly w i th authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility and w i th d irhams obtained from the sale to the Bank of Morocco of "convertible currencies," excluding banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases from the Bank of Morocco of "convertible currencies." Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for cen tral banks (or similar ins t i tu- tions) of the countries w i th which Morocco m a in t a ins bilateral payments agreements (see foo tno te 3 ); they are used only for settlements with these countries, including settlements for imports and exports. 4. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any nonresident, are cred i ted with f u n ds that may not be transferred abroad. These include the proceeds from the sale on the Casablanca Stock Exchange of Moroccan securities and proceeds from the con t rac tual or accele- rated redemption of such securities. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries in the area of convertibility or the same country in the payments agreement group are permitted free ly. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for purchases of specified govern- ment bonds and for personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate relatives du r ing visits to Morocco, subject to a limit of DH 10,000 a year for each account. All other operations through Capital Accounts require ind iv idual approval. 5. Suspense Accounts are used for holding non- resident funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due in Morocco, and, up to DH 10,000 a person a year, to pay the costs of the stay in Morocco of the account holder, his spouse, or other immed ia te relatives, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 6. Three Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Central Bank of Algeria, the Central Bank of Mau r i tan ia, and the Central Bank of Tunisia. Only certain noncommercial transactions between Morocco and Algeria are settled through the account opened in the name of the Central Bank of Algeria. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with an annual General Import Program, divided into three categories and applicable to all countries. Goods in List A may be imported free ly. Goods in List B are restricted, in some cases by a global quota, or are subject to state trading; for a l a rg e -numb er of List B items, no quotas are established, and imports are approved according to need, licenses usua l ly being issued upon application (SB i t em s ). In principle, the importation of goods in List C is not permitted; among the items on this list are certain motor vehicles, certain precious metals, and MOROCCO gold jewelry. To import goods in List A, the importer signs an import commitment (engagement a"importa- tion), which does not require adm in is t ra t ive approval unless the goods are imported f rom a country other than that of origin or are purchased on a c . i .f. basis,4 but for goods in List B, an import certificate (autorisation d'importation or certificat d'importation) must be obtained. Wheat, sugar, tea, and fer t i l izers are imported by official agencies. For all imports the import t i t le — impo rt ce r t i f ica te or import commitment —must be domiciled ( reg is te red) with an authorized bank, which may make paymen ts upon submission of the required documen ts. Import certificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the foreign exchange is made available. Import commitments require this visa only when the coun t ry of origin and the coun try of sh ipment of the goods concerned d iffer or when imports are contracted for on a c.i.f. basis. Special procedures are applicable to specified imports financed by fore ign aid or loans. A noninterest-bearing advance impo rt deposit equiva- lent to 25 per cent of the total foreign exchange cost of the import is payable at the t ime the import trans- action is domiciled with an authorized bank. The deposit is refunded to the importer a f t er six months. A large number of import items is exempt f rom the deposit requirement —notably essential foods tu f fs, pr imary, semifinished, and cap i tal goods imported by cooperatives and by small and med ium-s ized enter- prises w i th an annual turnover of less than DH 7.5 mil- lion, imports made by public offices and local communities, and imports under the customs savings procedures.5 Most imports f rom countries in the payments agree- ment group are made in accordance w i th quotas estab- lished- in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under compensation transactions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles require the approval of the Exchange Office, but in several instances the approval au thor i ty has been delegated to the banks. The authorized banks are perm i t ted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial trans- action covered by the relevant import or export docu- ments. Earnings af ter tax on approved nonresident investments in Morocco are transferab le to the investor's country of residence. The t rans fer of dividends on nonresident-owned shares of Moroccan companies hav- ing their main office in Morocco requires the approval of the Exchange Office. Und is tr ibu ted p ro f i ts re la t ing to the financial year 1968 or later rema in t rans fe rab le indefinitely. Some paymen ts are subject to l im i ta t ions. A fo re ign employee may t rans fer to his coun try of origin, subject 4 C.i.f. imports of List A goods requ i re prior exchange control approval. 5 Including temporary admissions, drawback, and warehousing. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO to the initial approval of the Exchange Office, 50 per cent of his monthly wages or salary if his fam i ly does not reside in Morocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his fam i ly lives in Morocco; except for the medical and paramedical professions, such transfers are subject to a limit of DH 2,000 a month. Subject to a monthly limit of DH 2,000, the same percentages of earnings may also be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in agricultural, industrial, or commercial activities, or in skilled craf ts. Foreign nationals employed in the hotel sector or the mining sector are authorized to transfer between 60 per cent and 80 per cent of their mon th ly salaries or wages. An allocation of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 100 a person a year is granted to residents of any na t iona l i ty for travel abroad, provided that they do not make periodic transfers abroad. There is a special allocation for pilgrimages. Residents of fore ign nationality may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 2,500 a year for each passport by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange (o ther than bankno tes) from their own fore ign assets not subject to surrender requirements. For business travel a s tandard allowance of DH 500 a day is granted for executives and DH 350 for other staff members and employees, up to DH 5,000 a person a t r ip and within an annual ceiling fixed ind iv idua l ly by the Exchange Office; exporters and professional mem- bers of the tourist industry may obtain up to DH 750 a person a day, up to DH 10,000 a tr ip, within a ceiling of 3 per cent of the fo re ign exchange repatriated dur ing the preceding calendar year. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. Moroccan students pu r su ing higher studies abroad may obtain monthly allocations of fore ign exchange up to DH 1,300 for students in higher educa- tion who do not hold scholarships, and of DH 1,500 for doctoral students who do not hold scholarships. There is also a quarterly allocation of DH 1,000 as a supple- ment for scholarship students. Students are granted an annual installation allowance, fixed at DH 2,000. The export of Moroccan bankno tes is prohibited. Workers leaving Morocco to work abroad for the first time may be granted DH 2,000 in foreign banknotes upon presen- ta t ion of an employment contract. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items. All f ru i ts, fresh vegetables, canned goods, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported only by a state t rad ing agency, the Office of Marke t ing and Export (Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation —OCE), which is also in charge of wine exports. All exporters must sign an unde r tak ing to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. The sur- render to the exporter's bank must take place within one month from the date the payment is due. The date on 306 which the payment is due is the ma tu r i ty date fixed in the commercial contract; in principle, this date must not be set more than 90 days a f t er the da te of arrival of the merchandise at the place of des t ina t ion. When the exporter's bank receives the advice of credit in foreign currency from abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immediately to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan n a t ion a l i ty and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing f rom all their noncommercial claims and su r render them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result f rom current transactions. Moroccans wo rk ing abroad must surrender such currencies w i th in one mon th of re-entry, but are permitted, when leaving aga in, to repurchase 15 per cent of the amount surrendered. A special premium, called the "fidelity prem ium ," is paid by the banks on rem i t tances by Moroccans wo rk ing in France; it is computed to assure beneficiaries a conversion rate of DH 1 = F 1. The impor ta t ion of Moroccan bank- notes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may free ly br ing in foreign banknotes; fore ign currency imported in excess of the equivalent of DH 5,000 must, however, be declared to the customs au thor i t ies. Resident trav- elers also may bring in any amount in fore ign bank- notes, but these must be surrendered w i th in 30 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan na t iona l i ty, as well as com- panies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250 and to repa tr ia te and su r render cer ta in of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The t ran s fer of cap i tal abroad by residents must be approved. Rem i t tance of the assets of em igran ts and t rans fe rs in the fo rm of g i f ts are not norma l ly approved, nor is inves tment by pr iva te ind i- v idua ls in foreign securities or real estate. Exchange allocations for the t rans fer of inhe r i tances are limited to DH 35,000 a beneficiary. Permissible t rans fe rs of assets by resident foreigners on final depa r tu re vary with the length of stay, f rom DH 10,000 a year for a stay of up to 9 years, DH 150,000 for a stay of 10 to 14 years, DH 250,000 for 15 to 24 years of stay, and DH 350,000 where the period of residence exceeds 24 years. New fore ign investments in specified sectors of the economy may benefit f rom the provisions of the Invest- ment Code of August 15, 1973. The Code provides various tax concessions and other incentives. It guar- antees the t ran s fer of dividends d is tr ibu ted to non- residents and of proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of the capital brought in by the fore ign investor. Investments financed with funds held in Capital Accounts (see below) also are eligible for the benefits of the Code; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution proceeds f rom the liquidation of investments financed in this manner become t rans fe rab le a f ter a m in imum investment period of 5 years. Foreign investments approved under the previous Investment Code (of February 10, 1961) continue to benefit f rom the re t rans fer guaran tee for the l iqu ida t ion proceeds. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of other investments are credited to Cap i tal Accounts. Operations th rough Capital Accounts that may be effected w i th approval inc lude purchases on the Casa- blanca Stock Exchange of Moroccan and non-Moroccan securities; purchases of Moroccan securities not quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange or participation in a Moroccan firm; subscriptions to either; investments of any k ind, inc lud ing purchases of businesses or office buildings; lend ing to residents; payment of local expenses in excess of DH 5,000 dur ing the account holder's stay in Morocco; any such paymen ts to beneficiaries other than the holder of the account or a close re la t ive; any such payments f rom an account held by a fore ign ju r id ical person; g i f ts to social, cu l tura l, or religious ins t i tu t ions; subscriptions to cap i tal increases of Moroc- can companies whose shares are quoted on the Casa- blanca Stock Exchange; subscriptions at the t ime of issue to long-term or short-term fixed yield securities issued by a Moroccan public en t i ty; custody charges and commissions on securities; and payment of the cost of ma in tenance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Subject to approval, Capital Accounts may also be debited for investments in Morocco, w i th in the f ramewo rk of the 1973 Invest- ment Code, provided that the amounts debited do not exceed 50 per cent of the inves tment unde r taken by the nonresident and 25 per cent of the company's total capital. Certain government bonds acquired with funds f rom Capital Accounts are freely negotiable between non- residents. These are 5.5 per cent, seven-year bonds on which interest and redemption proceeds are transferab le. All other transactions in securities involving nonresident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Banks are perm i t ted to engage in short-term borrowing abroad; they may accept con- vertible currency funds f rom nonresidents for credit to Special Deposit Accounts, provided that these funds are reinvested abroad in the same currency and for the same m a tu r i ty period. The ra te of interest paid by banks on these deposits may not exceed the rate received by them on their corresponding placements. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of DH 250 has been issued and is legal tender. Residents MOROCCO may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for num isma t ic or investment purposes. Ten d i f fe rent types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization by the Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes. Each year the M in is t ry of Finance fixes a quota for the impo r ta t ion of gold ingots, which are then allocated among jewelers and indu s t r ial users of precious metals. Gold jewe lry is included in import List C. Exports of gold are prohibited. Changes during 1981 January 27. The Exchange Office announced that a number of items, inc lud ing most me tal products and mach ine ry, were being added to the list of items exempt f r om the 25 per cent deposit requ iremen t. February 6. Exchange control regu la t ions on the t ran s fer of assets by depa r t ing resident fo re igne rs were relaxed, w i th effect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1981. February 16. The General Import Program for 1981 was announced, invo lv ing l ibera l iza t ion of a large number of import items, in the f o rm of a sh i ft of products f rom List B to List A, or f rom List C to List B. February 20. Impor ts of barley were exempted f rom the advance import deposit requirement. February 23. Imports of ag r icu l tu ral trac tors were exempted f rom import taxes. March 21. The Exchange Office announced the addi- tion of a number of products to the list of items exempt f rom the import deposit requ iremen t; the add i t ional products included certain live animals, grains, chemicals, and agricultural machinery. March 23. The Finance M in is try suspended the duties and taxes on imports of dried beet pulp and dehydrated a l fa l fa. April 15. Import duties on cer ta in a lum inum products were raised to 30 per cent f rom previous rates of zero or 10 per cent; in addition, the import duty on certain cotton fabrics was lowered f rom 55 per cent to 50 per cent. November 12. Imports of cereals and seed legumes were exempted f rom the advance import deposit requirement. November 20. The daily fore ign exchange allow- ance for general business travel was raised f rom DH 500 to DH 750, and the overall limit for foreign travel by exporters and tourist indus try personnel was raised f rom DH 7,500 to DH 10,000 a person a trip. 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese Rupee, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the rate of NRs 13.20 = US$1. On December 31, 1981 the official buying and selling rates were NRs 13.10 and NRs 13.30, respectively, per US$1. Nepal also quotes fixed rates for the Ind ian rupee, at NRs 145.00 buying and NRs 145.15 selling, per 100 Indian rupees. Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for other currencies,1 with quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Buying rates only are quoted for Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Italian lire, and Swedish kronor, based on buying rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are separate buying rates for banknotes, at NRs 12.75 per US$1; a discount of 1 per cent is applied to other convertible banknotes. Residents may freely purchase Indian rupees f rom Nepalese banks, and they may hold any amount of Ind ian notes and coin, but the Indian rupee is not legal tender. Administration of Control Permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for all payments in convertible currency except for import payments and certain specified payments. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce and Supply. All exchange transactions with countries other than India must be settled through authorized dealers, i.e., the Nepal Bank Ltd. and the Rastriya Banijya Bank. Within Nepal there are 124 additional authorized dealers licensed to purchase for- eign currencies; any sale of such currencies other than Indian rupees is subject to the prior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing payments to countries with which no payments agreement is in fo rce2 and these may be made in foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Payments to, and receipts from, other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) except India (Bangladesh, Burma, Iran, Pak is tan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relat- ing to petroleum, na tu ral gas, and their products) should be effected through the ACU unless exporters in the partner country require the transaction to be settled through normal bank ing channels. Payments for imports 1 Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Singapore dollars, and Asian Monetary Units (AMUs). 2 Nepal has bilateral paymen ts agreements with Bulgaria, Poland, and U.S.S.R.; payments between Nepal and these countries must be made through special accounts. An agreement with Pakistan is inoperative. 308 f rom India normally are settled in Ind ian rupees, but the Nepal Rastra Bank sometimes makes convertible currencies available for such impor ts on the recom- menda t ion of the M in is try of Finance. The proceeds of exports to Ind ia are obtained in Ind i an rupees, while proceeds f rom other countries must be received in any of the quoted convertible currencies (see foo tno te 1). Nonresident Accounts The Nepal Ras tra Bank perm i ts nonres iden ts to open "convertible rupee accounts" w i th Nepalese banks; bal- ances on these accounts may be f ree ly t ran s fe r red abroad. Accounts in Ind ian currency may be opened only under special arrangements. Foreign currencies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are con- verted into Nepalese rupees and deposited with a Nepa- lese bank, may be reconverted for t r an s f er out of the coun try, subject to prior permission of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Ind ia and impor ts of certain commodi- ties (cement, corrugated sheeting, ha rdwa re, indu s t r ial machinery and spare parts, fe r t i l ize r, and limited amoun ts of personal e f fec t s) f rom countries other than India do not require import licenses. All other imports of goods require import licenses. Imports of vegetable oil, margar ine, an imal f a t, woolen carpets, arms and ammun i t ion, explosives, chemicals to be used for explo- sives, and wireless t ransm i t te rs require special permis- sion of the Governmen t. Imports of beef are banned. Under the Trade and Transit Treaties, Nepal and Ind ia have agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Ind ian goods; Ind ian goods may, in principle, be imported free ly (a l though some are sub- ject to a pe rm it system in order to prevent their re-exportation and certain others are subject to export ceilings in Ind i a ); reimbursement of tax is made by the Government of Ind ia to the Government of Nepal on direct imports from Ind ian m anu f a c tu r e rs of com- modities subject to excise du ty in Ind ia. Impor ts of cer ta in commodities f rom countries other than India (e.g., stainless steel, wrist watches, synthetic ya rn, radios, pocket ca lcu la tors, video sets, photographic equipment, and other specified goods) are subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions. Nepalese citizens r e tu rn ing a f t er v is i ts of less than three months abroad to countries other than India are allowed to import without permission personal effec ts valued up to NRs 15,000 once every th ree months. Nepalese citizens re tu rn ing a f ter an absence of between three mon ths and one year may impo rt personal e f fec ts valued up to NRs 10,000 w i thout permission; the limit for citizens re turn ing a f ter more than one year abroad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution is NRs 15,000. All import settlements through the bank- ing system must be on a letter of credit basis; only imports f rom Ind ia may be settled outside the bank ing system. Certain imports f rom all sources are subject to import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Ind ian rupees, but for amoun ts of Rs 500 or over the purpose of the payment must be indicated. For travel to countries other than Ind ia for medical trea tmen t, foreign exchange is allowed as recommended by a panel of doctors; students s tudy ing at their own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$2,160 a year for board and lodging, while payments for tuition fees are allowed as required. Foreign exchange is made available for certain business trips but is restricted for tourist travel abroad. Paymen ts for other invisibles depend on the essentiality of the transaction and the availability of fore ign exchange. Nepalese and Ind ian currencies may be taken out free ly to India but only by Nepalese and Ind i an na t iona ls; the export of these currencies to coun tr ies other than Ind ia is prohibited. Foreign banknotes, other than Ind ian banknotes, may not be taken out by residents w i thout permission. Non- residents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign bankno tes they brought in; however, nonresi- dents, other than Ind ian nationals, may not take out Nepalese or Ind ian bankno tes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of old coin, gold and silver, coin and jewelry made of these metals, and wild animals (bu f fa lo, mon- keys, pandas, musk deer, and rh inoceros) are pro- hibited. The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not permitted, and re-export to any destination of goods imported f rom Ind ia is prohibited. With speci- fied exceptions, goods of Nepalese origin may be exported freely to Ind ia. All exports to other destina- tions, except hand ic ra f ts, woolen goods other than car- pets, and ju te bags, require export licenses. The exchange proceeds from exports, except Ind ian rupees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or to an authorized bank w i th in six mon ths of the date when the goods crossed the customs fron t ier. Un it values are defined on an f.o.b. Nepal basis. Foreign ex- change surrendered in excess of earnings calculated on this basis is not eligible for the depreciated exchange rate. Foreign or Nepalese tourists may take out, without permission, goods not exceeding NRs 15,000 in value, which are not otherwise restricted. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Ind ian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived f rom transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized NEPAL bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and Ind ian currency may be brought in f rom India only, and by Nepalese and Ind ian nationals on ly; the import of these currencies f rom countries other than India is prohibited. When extending their visas, tourists are required to produce evidence that they have converted a m in imum of US$5 at the official rate of exchange for each day's stay. Nonresidents other than Indian na t iona ls are not allowed to br ing in Nepalese or Ind ian banknotes. Other foreign bankno tes may be brought in free ly by residents and nonresidents, but residents and Ind ian nationals must declare any fore ign bankno tes they br ing in. Capital No conditions are specified concerning receipts and rem i t tances in respect of capital t ransac t ions, but off ic ial exchange is not no rma l ly provided for cap i tal remit- tances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whe ther resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited f rom mak ing any type of investment in fo re ign countries, except investment specifically exempted by government notice; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insur- ance policies abroad, investments abroad by any bank- ing or financial ins t i tu t ion incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. Foreign investors who have obtained an investment guaran tee are eligible for ou tward remittances in respect of the following items: all or part of the sales pro- ceeds of investment, dividends, interest or principal repayment, amounts arising f rom the t r an s f er of tech- nology, and compensations on acquired assets. In cases of proceeds of investment sales and dividends, remit- tances may be subject to installments fixed by the Government. Gold Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports of gold f rom any country other than India require a license and are subject to an import duty of NRs 6.65 a troy ounce; such imports are not normally allowed. Exports of gold may be made only by the monetary authorities and require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Domestic deal- ings in gold do not require a license but are subject to a sales tax of 12 per cent. Changes during 1981 March 19. Import duties on tea, coffee, and other specified consumer goods were reduced f rom a range of 14 per cent to 72 per cent to one of 3 per cent to 58 per cent; in addition, the sales tax on these items was reduced from a range of 10 per cent to 15 per cent to one of 5 per cent to 10 per cent. April 27. Export or import of goods worth over 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL NRs 3,000 was made subject to the submission of a certificate of income tax clearance to the customs office; this regulation was made retroactive to April 1, 1981, but would not apply to baggage. July 10. Changes were made in import and export du t ies on a number of items, including cement, tiles, and certain other construction materials. September 16. The Government fixed a m in imum price of NRs 77 a 40-kilogram bag for raw jute. September 19. The dual exchange rate system vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar (the intervention currency) was abolished and a un i tary rate was adopted at NRs 13.20 = US$1. October 14. The minimum mill-gate price of sugar- cane was fixed at NRs 23 a quintal. November 22. Nepal and the People's Republic of China signed a three-year trade and payments agree- ment, replacing the one signed in 1974. The new agreement provided, inter alia, for settlements to be made in any convertible currency and empowered Nepalese traders to deal directly w i th Chinese state organizations. 310 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position on December 32, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Ne ther lands is the Netherlands Guilder. The Ne ther lands participates with Belgium, Denma rk, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ire land, Italy, and Luxembourg in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS ). In accordance with this agreement, the Ne the r lands ma in ta ins the spot exchange rates between the Ne the r lands gu i lder and the currencies of the other par t ic ipan ts w i th in ma rg ins of 2.25 per cent (in the case of the I ta l ian l ira, 6 per cen t) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECU s ). The agreement implies that the Netherlands Bank (the central b a n k) stands ready to buy or sell the cur- rencies of the other par t ic ipa t ing states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On Decem- ber 31, 1981 these ra tes were as fo l lows: Specified In terven t ion Rates Per: Ne ther lands Guilders Upper l im it Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 10,000 Italian lire 6.6845 34.4375 113.050 44.125 3.9805 21.745 6.3905 32.9225 108.0775 42.1825 3.8055 19.2875 The par t ic ipan ts in the EMS do not ma in ta in exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. How- ever, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the sys- tem, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the in terven t ion currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. The authorized banks quote buying and selling rates for 14 fore ign currencies.1 On December 31, 1981 the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S dollar were f. 2.46725 and f. 2.46975, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and inconvertible currencies, both spot and fo rwa rd, against convertible currencies, including deposits in nonresident guilder accounts, and inconver- tible currencies; they are f ree to deal with residents and nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, nor is an underlying transaction required. Residents are f ree to conclude spot transactions with other residents, 1 Au s t r i an schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f ranc s, I ta l ian lire, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Norwegian k rone r, pounds s ter l ing, Swedish k rono r, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. inc lud ing authorized banks, and they may conclude for- wa rd transac t ions with authorized banks for any period. The in te rmed ia t ion of au thor ized banks is not obligatory in those fo rwa rd currency transactions in which the guilder is not involved. Nonbank res iden ts are f ree to hold fo re ign currency accounts at home and are per- m i t t ed to hold accounts in the ir own names with banks abroad; for any one holder, aggregate ove rd ra f ts on the la t ter accounts may not result in gross fo re ign borrow- ing in excess of f. 500,000 a calendar year w i thout specific license (see section on Capital, b e low ). The Kingdom of the Ne ther lands fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Ar t ic le VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Transactions with the Ne the r lands An t i l les are sub- ject to the same exchange controls as transac t ions with other coun tr ies. Vis-a-vis any third coun tr ies with wh ich payments agreements might be in force, the Ne ther lands and the Netherlands Antilles will, if so stipulated, cons t i tu te the Ne the r lands Mone ta ry Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Ne the r lands Bank on beha lf of the M in is te rs of Foreign A f fa i r s, Finance, Economic A f f a i r s, and Ag r icu l tu re. Import inc lud ing t ran s it trade,2 are and export l icens ing, hand led by the Central Import-Export Agency (CD IU) and the delegated offices, under directives f rom the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. For the ir paymen ts to and receipts f rom nonres iden ts in the Ne ther lands, residents are generally required to use the in termed ia t ion of banks or other domestic institu- tions or persons authorized by the N e th e r l ands Bank to hand le these exchange transactions w i th in the scope of the regulations based on the Ex ternal F inanc ial Rela- t ions Act 1980 (see section on Cap i ta l, b e l ow ). To fac i l i ta te the compilation of the ba lance of paymen ts, residents are required to ind ica te on repo r t ing fo rms, for cu r rent payments to and receipts f rom nonres iden ts exceeding f. 3,000 and for all cap i tal paymen ts and receipts, the na ture of the unde r ly ing transac t ion as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Separate regulations govern the reporting of se t t lemen ts where no t ran s fer of money is involved. Residents are free to open and ma in ta in bank accounts ab road; resident un i ts of in te rna t ional companies are also f r ee to ma in ta in current accoun ts w i th aff i l ia ted companies abroad for the purpose of intercompany set- tlements. The Netherlands Bank must be notified of such accounts, and entries in them are to be reported to the Bank in accordance with the related regulations. 2 The only trans it t rade t ransac t ions still subject to specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods. 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Prescription of Currency In effecting payments to nonresidents or collecting receipts f rom them, residents may make use of guilders or any fore ign currency. Payments in any foreign cur- rency between residents may be made freely. There are no bilateral paymen ts agreements in force. Nonresi- dents are free to open and maintain nonresident accounts with authorized banks in the Netherlands in guilders or any foreign currency, and to effect payments to, or col- lect receipts from, residents. All current payments or receipts are freely permitted, as well as transfers of balances to and from other nonresident accounts. Some capital payments or receipts, however, are subject to license f rom the Netherlands Bank (see section on Capital, be low ). Imports and Import Payments Imports from the Be lg ian-Luxembourg Economic .Union are free from import licenses. Import licenses are required for imports originating in Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading countries, and for the import of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, ma in ly in the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors, when not of EC origin. Except for imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in state trading countries, most imports that require an import license are free from quan t i ta t ive restriction. Most imports from Eastern European coun- tries are formally liberalized. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC are subject to import levies that have replaced all pre- vious barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Payments for imports may be made freely, provided that the method of payment conforms to the relative exchange control regulations. Residents may freely make advance payments for imports of commodities, but they require prior approval f rom the Netherlands Bank to delay payment for periods in excess of those that are cus tomary in the trade concerned. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Residents may take out any amount in foreign and domestic banknotes and coin or documents of value for travel purposes; these may be used for traveling expenses abroad as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely. Nonres iden ts may export all unu t i l ized documents of value for travel purposes, as well as fore ign and Ne ther- lands banknotes and coin which they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or by exchanging other currencies. 312 Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few commodi- ties, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agri- cultural products, iron and steel scrap and related prod- ucts, and certain nonferrous metals. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities, but they require prior permission f rom the Netherlands Bank to accept payment in advance of delivery in excess of the customary practice in the trade concerned. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts by residents from current invisibles. Nonresidents may b r ing into the Netherlands for travel purposes any amoun ts of foreign banknotes and documen ts of value; these may be used for traveling expenses in the Nether- lands, as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Capital With effect from May 1, 1981, exchange control in the N e th e r l ands has been based on new legislation, the Ex te rnal F inanc ial R e l a t ions Act 1980, which replaced the Exchange Control Decree 1945. The change involved the in t roduc t ion of a "positive" exchange control system, und er which all exchange transac t ions not explicitly regu la ted are f ree. The new Act limits potential res tr ic t ion to capital transactions, except where cu r rent p aym en ts and c ap i t al transac t ions are in te rwoven, as in payment in te rva ls re la t ing to trade transac t ions. The imp lemen t ing regu la t ions, however, largely resemble the simplified regu la t ions of Septem- ber 1977, which an t ic ipa ted the 1980 Act. Ac tual exchange control policy was not altered by the change in legal basis. Most external capital transactions are free. The main cap i tal transac t ions of nonb ank residents s t i ll subject to case-by-case review are ( 1) financial bo r row ing f rom nonresidents exceeding f. 500,000 a yea r; (2) the issue of interest-bearing domestic securities, and ^ the sale of such un l is ted securities, to nonres iden ts; (3) long-term lending (i.e., with a ma tu r i ty of at least two years) to nonres iden ts exceeding f. 10 million a year to the same nonres iden ts; and (4) the acquisition, at the time of placement, of foreign gu i lder securities that bear interest and are unlisted. The inwa rd t ran s fer of capital o r ig ina t ing f rom short- term borrowing abroad (i.e., with a ma tu r i ty of less than two years) by nonbank residents is restricted for reasons of monetary policy. Longer-term borrowing abroad for domestic use by resident enterprises is gen- erally permitted upon application if the loans meet the fo l low ing conditions: ( 1) the average m a t u r i ty sha ll be at least two years; (2) the ra te of interest is not to be ad jus ted within periods of two years; ( 3) advance repay- ment is precluded; and (4) to the extent that the loan is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution denominated in guilders, the issue of bearer debt certifi- cates shall not be allowed, with the exception of Euro- gu i lder notes issued with consent of the Bank. Other borrowing (apa rt from intercompany borrow- ing, see be low) is in general permitted only if the pro- ceeds are employed abroad, either for direct investment or for repayment of licensed foreign loans raised earlier. Short-term foreign bank credit for the f inanc ing of imports is licensed if it is directly connected with specific import transactions, tak ing the place of customary sup- plier's credit. As a rule, nonbank residents are not allowed to sell commercial and other receivables owed by residents or unlisted domestic fixed-interest securities, inc lud ing Ne the r lands Treasury paper, to nonresidents. Direct inves tment in the fo rm of capital participations ( inward and ou twa rd) is f ree of license. The inward t rans fer of proceeds of borrowing f rom foreign a f f i l ia ted companies is licensed if the borrow ing conditions enu- merated above are met or if the loan has a fixed ma tu r i ty of five years (presuming the parties concerned p re fer a flexible rate of interest). Short-term lending ( f or less than two yea rs) to non- residents (whe ther a f f i l ia ted companies or o thers) is f ree of license, as is longer-term lending up to f. 10 million a calendar year to the same nonres iden t; larger amoun ts are no rma l ly perm i t ted on application. Public issues on the domestic capital market on behalf of nonresidents are subject to the issues calendar, and if necessary limited by the Ne ther lands Bank, in accordance with the market's capacity to absorb issues. In the private placement sector of the capital market ( the market for onderhandse leningen), where mainly ins t i tu t ional inves- tors act as lenders, a queue system for nonresident bor- rowers is used as well, to ensure orderly market conditions. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange take place at official market exchange rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in unlisted stocks are free. However, w i thout specific license, residents are not allowed to purchase unlisted fore ign fixed-interest securities denominated in guilders (such as foreign Euro-guilder no tes) at the time of placement. Nonbank residents are licensed to issue bonds and notes abroad for domestic use of the proceeds, provided the borrow- ing conditions enumera ted above are met. Nonresidents may have their securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not sub- ject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Ne ther lands for personal use or investment, and resi- den ts may f ree ly purchase real estate abroad. Extension of payment and mortgage borrowing from nonresidents within the f ramewo rk of such transactions is also free of license. NETHERLANDS G if ts and donations to nonresidents are free. Emi- gran ts may export any amount in fore ign and domestic currency. They acquire nonresident status upon leaving the Netherlands and may upon depar ture have remitted to them their total assets in the Ne ther lands. Nonresi- dents inheriting from estates in the Netherlands may have the proceeds transferred to them freely. There are no restrictions on commercial banks' spot external positions. They are, however, required to ma in- tain a balanced total position in each fore ign currency (i.e., spot plus forward pos i t ion ). In this context, the banks are required to report their spot position, as well as their forward position with residents and nonresi- dents, respectively, in each foreign currency at the end of each mon th; for deutsche mark, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars, the same da ta must also be reported at mid-month. Moreover, copies of all for- ward exchange contracts with nonres iden ts are fo rwa rded to the Ne ther lands Bank. Au thor ized banks may f ree ly extend foreign currency loans to nonresidents as well as short-term guilder loans (i.e., for less than two y e a r s ); for longer-term guilder loans a license is required if they exceed f. 10 million a calendar year to the same non- resident (bank or n o n b a n k ). The banks' freedom to accept deposits from nonres iden ts and to borrow abroad is unrestricted. All capital transfers by nonbank residents, whether f ree or permitted under license, must be notified to the Balance of Payments Depar tment of the Ne ther lands Bank. This includes suppliers' credits gran ted or received for periods in excess of one year; prepaymen ts exceeding f. 250,000 received for exports must be reported as such. Totals of security transac t ions must be reported periodically by securities brokers and autho- rized banks or, if transactions take place through a for- eign bank account, by the resident parties concerned. Gold The Netherlands Bank engages in gold t ransac t ions only with mone tary authorities and in te rna t ional finan- cial ins t i tu t ions. Ne i ther the Bank nor any gove rnment agency imports or markets gold for indus t r ial use. Authorized banks and nonbank residents may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell gold ( f ine gold, gold coin, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad. Imports and exports of gold do not require exchange licenses or import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Ams terdam. Domestic sales of gold coin are subject to value-added tax at 4 per cent. The value-added tax on medallions and commemorative coins is 18 per cent. Transfers of gold in bars and other elementary fo rms are taxed at 4 per cent (except for transac t ions of the Ne ther lands Bank with foreign monetary au tho r i t ie s ); all other gold transactions are taxed at 18 per cent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles con- ta in ing m inor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when originating in Hong Kong, Japan, or state trading countries. The domestic gold- 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS working industry, instead of having to borrow capital to buy initial amounts of its raw material, is permitted to borrow this gold from nonresidents under contract of mu tuum. Guarantees or other security required for this may also be freely given. The quantities of gold thus imported must be reported to the Netherlands Bank on a quar ter ly basis. Changes during 1981 May 1. The External Financial Relations Act 1980 came into effect. This did not imply any change in actual exchange control policy; the Implementing Regu- lations 1981/1-4 largely resembled the previous regula- tions of September 1977. The main formal change resulted from linking the capital export regulations more explicitly with the aim of protecting the domestic long- te rm capital ma rket f rom disorderly conditions; hence- fo r th, loans to nonres iden ts with a m a tu r i ty of less than two years would be free of license. July 14. In connection with the provisional suspen- sion of domestic credit restriction, the curtailment of capital import in the form of foreign borrowing was fu r ther relaxed. Henceforth, borrowing from nonresi- dents by domestic enterprises for domestic use would generally be licensed if the average ma tu r i ty were to be at least two years, instead of the previous 5l/2 years. October 5. The bilateral central rates of the curren- cies participating in the European Monetary System were realigned; as a result, the central rate of the guilder expressed in terms of ECUs strengthened by 5.6 per cent. 314 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES1 (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Ne the r lands Antilles is the Netherlands Antilles Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, at NA f. 1.7900 = US$1. The official buy ing rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1981 were NA f. 1.77 per US$1 for bankno tes and NA f. 1.79 per US$1 for d ra f t s, checks, and t rans fe rs. The off ic ial selling rate was NA f. 1.81 per US$1. The Bank of Ne ther lands Antilles (the cen- tral bank) deals w i th commercial banks at interbank rates; it does not no rma l ly deal with the public. Official buy ing and selling rates for certain other cu r renc ies2 are set da i ly on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar abroad. There is an exchange tax of 0.80 per cent on sales of foreign exchange.3 Commercial banks require the approval of the central bank to invest or hold foreign currency balances,4 but au thor ized banks have been g ran ted general permissions for these purposes. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the cen tral bank. Import licenses, where required, are issued by the Department of Economic A f fa i rs. The commercial banks are permitted by the central bank to provide foreign exchange for most current transactions w i thout prior approval. The cen tral bank may grant exemption f rom the obligation of surrender ing foreign exchange, inso far as the assets or moneys concerned were acquired from nonresidents as principals; the foreign exchange may then be held or used freely un t il fu r ther notice. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Ne ther lands An t i l les guilders. For statistical purposes, all payments made by residents through the authorized banks in foreign exchange, as well as all receipts through the authorized banks, must be reported to the central bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonresident accounts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents ( inc lud ing hold- ers of fore ign investment f u n d s, etc., w i th nonresident status) are perm i t ted to hold nonres ident accounts in Ne ther lands Antilles guilders only if the authorized !The Ne the r lands An t i l les is a nonme t ropo l i tan te r r i to ry in respect of which the K ingdom of the Ne the r lands has accepted the Fund's A r t ic les of Ag reemen t. 2 Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Ne the r lands gu i lders, pounds s ter l ing, Su r iname guilders, Swiss francs, and Venezue lan bolivares. 3 Purchases of fo r e ign exchange by resident companies with non- resident s ta tus for exchange control purposes are exempt f rom the exchange tax. * All currencies o ther t h an considered fore ign currencies. the Ne the r lands An t i l les guilder are bank concerned considers that they have certain inter- ests in the Ne the r lands Antilles which render such an account desirable; ba lances in such accoun ts may not exceed NA f. 10,000 w i thout central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts of certain items, such as narcotics and explo- sives, are subject to license for reasons of public policy. Imports of a number of commodities, including edible oils and cer ta in domestic appliances, into Aruba, Bonaire, and Curasao are sub ject to licensing by the Department of Economic A f fa i r s, wh i le commercial impor ts of passenger au tomob i les bu i lt prior to Octo- ber 31, 1979 are proh ib i ted. Paymen ts for permitted imports may be made freely. Companies w i th non- resident status no rma l ly f in an ce their imports w i th their own foreign exchange. Certain commodities are subject to import surcharges in A ruba, Bonaire, and Curasao. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are not restricted. For most types of cu r rent invisibles remittances may be made free ly through the authorized banks. Licenses are required ma in ly for the purchase of travel exchange in excess of the equ iva lent of NA f. 400 a person for each day to be spent abroad and for paymen ts for l i fe insu rance and contracts of indemn i ty in excess of NA f. 5,000 for each transac t ion or in excess of NA f. 25,000 a person a year, and for certain other personal rem i t tances in excess of NA f. 50,000 for each t ransac t ion or in excess of NA f. 250,000 a person a year. Such licenses are freely granted when no capital t ran s fer appears to be involved. Nonres iden ts may take with them on depar ture any fo re ign currency which they brought in on arrival. The export of Ne the r lands An t i l les bankno tes is limited to NA f. 200 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank within six mon ths of shipment, with the exception of export pro- ceeds received by companies w i th nonresident status. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles (except those of firms with nonres ident s ta tus) must, in prin- ciple, be surrendered to an authorized bank within eight days of receipt, but in p rac t ice, the pub l ic is allowed to hold foreign bankno tes and coin, since the domestic currency and the U.S. dollar c ircu la te con- currently. Travelers may bring in w i th them any amount of checks, travelers checks, or bankno tes denom- inated in foreign currency. Each traveler may also bring in NA f. 200 in Ne ther lands Antilles banknotes. 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles requires a license, which is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interest of the islands; the Investment Incentives Program, as amended, provides for duty-free entry of many commodities as well as tax facilities. New industrial companies pri- marily engaged in exporting may be granted nonresi- dent status by the central bank, which confers on the company concerned exemption from exchange control (except in its transactions with residents), including exemption from the requirement of surrendering for- eign currency receipts. Such exemption may also be granted to companies concerned with investment, patent holding, shipping, and insurance. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control, and certain capital transactions by or on behalf of residents are restricted. Life insurance con- tracts in foreign currency between residents and for- eign insurance companies for a minimum term of ten years are licensed up to an amount that is fixed annua l ly, depend ing on the foreign exchange position, but outward t rans fe rs of capital by life insurance com- panies are not restricted; contracts expressed in domes- tic currency are freely permitted in any amount by virtue of general permissions granted to individual foreign insurers. Investment by residents in real estate situated abroad requires a license, but this is normally given freely. Investment in officially listed foreign securities (i.e., securities issued outside the Netherlands Antilles or payable or optionally payable in the cur- rency of a country other than the Netherlands Antilles) is subject to licensing; such licenses are generally granted provided the securities are registered abroad in the name of an authorized bank and provided foreign payments are channeled through authorized banks. Purchases of mu tual fund shares are prohibited. Authorized banks may borrow foreign currency abroad from nonresidents (including residents with nonresident s ta tus) or accept foreign currency deposits from nonresidents, for relending to nonresidents or redeposit abroad; their borrowing from nonresidents for relending to residents is restricted for monetary policy reasons. Banks require central bank approval to incur a net fore ign liability position, and limits are placed on their wo rk ing balances in foreign currency. Nonresidents are not norma l ly permitted to acquire balances in Ne ther lands Antilles guilders. Local bor- rowing in domestic cu r rency by nonres iden ts (including resident companies regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes) is restricted. Gold There are five denom ina t ions of commemorative gold coin, wh ich are legal tende r: the NA f. 200 (1976) Bicentennial, the NA f. 200 (1977) Peter Stuyvesant, the N A f. 100 (1978 ), commemora t ing the 150th anni- versary of the central bank, and the N A f. 50 (1979), commemorating the 25th ann ive rsa ry of the Statute of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, and the NA f. 300 (1980) on the occasion of the abdication of Queen Ju l iana. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Ne ther lands An t i l les for num i sma t ic and invest- ment purposes; au thor ized banks may freely negotiate gold coin among themselves and w i th other residents. Residents other than the mone tary authorities and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the central bank; such licenses are not norma l ly granted except for imports and exports of coin by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1981 January 1. Currency No t if ica t ions No. 80/3 and No. 80/4 came in to e f fec t: the fo rmer raised the limits on remittances w i thout license to NA f. 50,000 and NA f. 250,000 a transac t ion and a year, respectively; the la t ter ma in ta ined unchanged at NA f. 25,000 a year the limit on freely rem i t tab le f u n ds in respect of life insurance and contracts of indemn i ty. 316 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of New Zealand is the New Zea- land Dollar. Exchange rates are computed on the basis of the fixed relationship between the New Zealand dollar and a basket of currencies representing New Zealand's main trad ing par tners. The weights of the currencies in the basket are established in accordance w i th their proportionate share of New Zealand's total current overseas receipts and paymen ts; the weights are ad jus ted quarterly. The exchange rate of the New Zealand dollar for the U.S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, is fixed daily on the basis of the average weighted va r ia t ions in quotations for the U.S. do l lar in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. The peg of the New Zealand dollar to the basket of currencies is subject to small frequent adjustments primarily on the basis of cost and price trends in New Zealand relative to those of t rad ing partners, but account can also be taken of other factors bearing on the balance of payments. For all currencies except the U.S. dollar the t rad ing banks are free to move the spot exchange rate in response to ma rket conditions throughout each business day. The outer l im i ts for the telegraphic t r an s f er buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1981 were $NZ 1.2057 and $NZ 1.2204, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The t rad ing banks are pe rm i t ted to conclude w i th their customers fo rwa rd exchange contracts to buy or sell fore ign currencies in exchange for New Zea land dollars, irrespective of the purpose for which the f u n ds are required or the source f rom which they are obtained, provided that any ou tward rem i t tance made in the fo rm of a fo rwa rd con tract also complies w i th exchange control regulations. These fo rwa rd con trac ts may be either for a fixed term or for op t ional delivery dates. The Reserve Bank sets the fo rwa rd p rem ium or d iscount rate for the U.S. do l la r, the ma in cr i ter ion being the relationship between in terest rates in New Zealand and in the Un i ted States. For all other currencies, the trad- ing banks are f ree to set their own rates for forward transactions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. The Reserve Bank has given discretionary au thor i ty to the t rad ing banks to approve applications for certain remittances of f u n ds overseas. The Overseas Investment Commission adm in is ters the regu la t ions governing fore ign direct inves tment in New Zealand. Export and import licensing is the responsi- bility of the Customs Department and the Depa r tment of Trade and Industry, respectively. Prescription of Currency Payments to and f rom residents of countries o ther than New Zealand may be made or received in any foreign currency.1 Payment to and f rom New Zea land currency accounts held w i th banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand is also an accept- able fo rm of paymen t. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank supervises ce r ta in specified ac- counts in New Zealand of residents of o ther coun tr ies ("controlled accoun ts" ). The accounts in New Zea- land dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries, but they may only be funded f rom overseas or by amoun ts which would otherwise be rem i t tab le f rom New Zea land. Imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through an annu al Import Licensing Schedule. The import categories included in the schedule are as fo l lows: Category "E" ( ex emp t) covers v i r tua l ly a ll p r ima ry products (o ther th an w h e a t ), most raw ma ter ia ls and componen ts (e.g., base chemicals and fe r t i l ize rs) and mach ine ry of a type not produced in New Zealand, and some consumer goods. Goods in this category are exempt f rom licensing, as are, in addition, a small range of goods of Au s t ra l ian origin.2 With the exception of a few specified p r im a ry products, impor ts from the Pacific is lands3 under the South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Coopera- tion Agreement (SPARTECA) are free of l icens ing and du ty requirements. On a va lue basis, about 75 per cent of all private imports are exempt f rom l icens ing. The "Basic" category comprises items for which licenses are granted by reference to e i ther the amount of licenses issued or the actual va lue of impor ts in a previous licensing period. Goods covered by this cate- gory include tires, paper products, and a range of materials for use in m anu f a c tu r e. The "C" category covers a wide range of commodities, inc lud ing most manufactures, e.g., machinery and appliances, a i rc ra f t, ships, and motor vehicles. Category "C" licenses are granted on an individual basis and on such criteria as need, availability of domestic alternatives, and price. Imports of completely knocked-down automobiles are subject to a rolling replacement licensing program. "Administrative basis licenses" are issued au toma t ica l ly to ensure con t inu i ty of impor ta t ion for ce r ta in regularly 1 Foreign currencies are denned as all currencies other than New Zealand cu r rency. 2 Under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agree- ment th at came into force on J anu a ry 1, 1966. 3 The islands under this arrangement are those constituting the South Pacific Fo rum, i.e. (in add i t ion to Au s t ra l ia and New Zea- l a n d ), Cook Islands, Fiji, K ir iba t i, N a u r u, N iue, Papua New Gu inea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Western Samoa, and V anu a tu. 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND required goods in the "C" category that correspond to only part of an item code, for example, spare parts. The overall adm in i s t ra t ion of the system has been eased over the recent past, with greater availability of licenses for inputs to export-oriented industry, to encour- age rationalization of production and greater cost containment within industry generally. Import licenses are issued under a tender system for a wide range of consumer goods, inc lud ing certain food- s tu f fs, household appliances, apparel, and sport equip- ment. Tendering takes place in up to f o ur rounds at six-month intervals. Imports under the scheme together with the special trade licenses are limited to 10 per cent of the annual market va lue for each product category. All licenses issued may be used for imports f rom any source. A degree of flexibility in the application of the Import Licensing Schedule is achieved through the use of Group Schemes ( for Indu s t ry and In te rchangeab i l i ty Groups) that enable importers to t rans fer i n d i v i d u al en t i t lemen ts to a composite license instead of ho ld ing licenses for separate items, and to impo r t, up to the total amount, any item or comb ina t ion of items in trie group. "No-remittance licenses" for imports outside the Import Licensing Schedule may be issued in special circumstances, viz., for advertising ma ter ial supplied free of charge; g if ts, passengers' baggage, replacement of fau l ty or damaged goods; t rade samples supp l ied free of charge; and temporary imports. The t rad ing banks have au tho r i ty to make fo re ign exchange available for payments in respect of all licensed imports and all imports that do not require a license. Payments for Invisibles The trading banks are perm i t ted to sell exchange for overseas payments w i th in prescribed l im i ts for most categories of invisibles, subject in appropriate cases, to the submission of supporting documents. Payments in excess of these limits, and for categories not included in the commercial banks' permitted list, requ ire the specific approval of the Reserve Bank. Banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange for genuine foreign travel purposes without prior reference to the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 1,000 a person a mon th or part thereof, with a max imum of $NZ 4,000 a person in any 12-month period. Requests for amounts in excess of $NZ 1,000 a mon th or for a total of more than $NZ 4,000 in any 12-month period must be referred to the Reserve Bank. Larger amounts of exchange for any type of travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank, which meets all reasonable requests for genuine travel pur- poses. In addition to the above, banks in New Zealand and their branches or agents in London and Australia may sell foreign currencies, w i thout limit as to amount, to New Zealand travelers against privately held foreign fund s. An in terna t ional departure tax of $NZ 25 a per- son aged 12 and over ( $ N Z5 for children over 2 but 318 under 12) is payable on all tickets obtained in New Zealand for depar ture f rom New Zealand, except for certain promotional, cu l tura l, or educational travel. This tax is administered by the Customs Department. The rem i t tance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is approved, subject to formal au then t ica t ion. Contractual obligations also are normally approved, but each rem i t tance requires approval, and new comm i tmen ts, such as royalty agree- men ts w i th overseas licensors or overseas borrowing, require the prior consent of the Reserve Bank and, for corporate borrowing, of the Overseas Investment Com- mission. Remittances abroad on account of ma in tenance or g i f ts by recognized New Zealand religious and chari- table organizations or ind iv idua ls operating as members of such an organization are not sub ject to l im i ta t ion. Remittances for religious and char i tab le purposes, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve Bank, subject to fo rmal au then t ica t ion. Any resident may freely make personal rem i t tances up to a total of $NZ 100 a year to any destination overseas for any purpose except gambling or building up assets in the remitter's name. Travelers may take w i th them up to $NZ 100 in New Zealand currency, in any denomi- nation of notes or coin. Exports and Export Proceeds To ensure that export earnings are re tu rned through the banking system, an export license f rom the Customs Department is required before any goods can be exported f rom New Zealand. General export licenses, valid for five years, are issued to regular exporters. Particular export licenses, as required, are issued to new exporters or to those who do not export on a regular basis. Unless prior consent is obtained, payments for exports must be received w i th in six months f rom the da te of shipment. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific requ i remen ts have been met and an export permit has been issued. Encouragement is extended by the Government aimed at raising the level of exports f rom New Zea- land, particularly non trad i t ional exports. Three new export incentive schemes were introduced on April 1, 1980 to replace existing incentives: (1) The Export Performance Taxation Incentive (EPT I ), an incentive related to the sale of goods and services (including tou r ism) and based on a firm's net fore ign exchange earnings; (2) the Export Market Development Taxation Incentive (EMDTI), designed to encourage the devel- opment of export markets; and (3) the Export Pro- gram Grants Scheme (EPGS ), an alternative to the EMDTI and designed to encourage firms to under take more thorough and coordinated ma rke t ing programs than is the case under the EMDTI. To facilitate export competitiveness, import licenses can be issued to manu fac tu r ing exporters for materials and components where it is established that equivalent ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution goods available from domestic sources have price or other characteristics that jeopard ize export performance. Bonus import licenses are available to manu fac tu re rs who have exported manu fac tu red goods in which licensed imported raw materials and components have been used. Proceeds from Invisibles When remunera t ion for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents ( inc lud ing corporate bodies ord inar i ly resident in New Zea land) is paid in the fo rm of foreign assets,4 the foreign cu r rency proceeds must be sold to the New Zealand b ank ing system; interest and dividends earned overseas f rom por tfo l io inves tment are excluded f rom this su r render requ i remen t. If the remunera t ion is in a fo rm other than a fo re ign currency or a balance w i th an overseas bank, it must be con- verted in to fore ign cu r rency and then surrendered. The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income f rom other invisibles such as interest and dividends is pe rm i t ted, and the fore ign currency pro- ceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may b r ing into the coun t ry un l im i ted amounts of foreign and domestic bankno tes and coin. Capital With the exception of capital issues outside New Zealand and overseas borrow ings, consents are not required in respect of capital receipts. Consent for overseas borrowing is usua l ly gran ted except for general f u n d i ng by f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions and short-term work- ing capital. To be eligible for repa t r ia t ion, capital must have been transferred to New Zealand th rough normal bank ing channe ls or in some other way approved by the au thor i t ies, e.g., as imports of p lant or machinery. Capi- tal so t rans fe r red, inc lud ing cap i tal gains and capitalized profits, may be repa tr ia ted, a f ter the fo rmal approval of the Reserve Bank has been ob ta ined. In the case of overseas borrowing, repaymen ts are not norma l ly per- mitted un t il the expiry of the term for which the funds were or ig ina l ly borrowed. All overseas entities seeking to establish themselves in New Zealand must obtain the approval of the Overseas Inves tment Commission. Capital issues outside New Zealand by companies incorporated in New Zealand require the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission; overseas borrow- ing by such companies also requires prior approval. New Zealand subsidiaries and branches of overseas companies must obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission if they wish to borrow in 4 The kinds of remunera t ion that are involved are (1) the pay- ment or provision of any money; (2) the cred i t ing of any sum in any account at any bank or w i th any person; (3) the acquisition or provision of any securities, or any real or personal p rope r ty, or of any r ight the re to or in te rest the re in (wh e th er ac tual or con t ingen t ); and (4) any benefit, whe ther by way of doing work or the pe r fo r- mance of services, or otherwise, under any contract agreement, scheme, or transaction of any k ind (whe ther or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings). NEW ZEALAND New Zealand, whether for long-term or short-term finance. Local borrowing by companies that are 50 per cent or more overseas owned is norma l ly restricted to 15 per cent of the tu rnover in the previous financial year, with a special allowance in respect of any export turnover. Such companies may borrow locally, in addition, an amount in proportion to the level of their borrowings f rom overseas, based on the ratio of New Zealand and overseas equity holdings. Nonresident persons or companies wishing to make a direct invest- ment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to ob ta in the con- sent of the Overseas Investment Commission in respect of any proposed offer for such shares whenever the investment would confer on the o f fe rer the beneficial en t i t lement to 25 per cent or more of any class of shares, or enable the offerer to exercise 25 per cent or more of the voting power at any general meeting. Em igran ts may t rans fer abroad the ir en t ire assets upon their depa r tu re f rom New Zealand. Applications for the rem i t tance abroad of legacies f rom the estate of a New Zealand resident are no rma l ly approved in fu l l. The au thor i t ies do not no rma l ly make exchange available to private persons or firms for the purchase of overseas securities for portfolio inves tmen t. New Zealand Government stock on the London register purchased overseas by New Zealand residents a f ter September 5, 1969 may not be t ran s fe r red f r om the United Kingdom to the New Zealand register. A New Zealand resident owning freely held overseas securities may retain them abroad or he may sell them to a non- resident for any foreign currency, which may be rein- vested in other overseas securities, may be remitted to New Zealand through the bank ing system, or may be retained at the disposal of the New Zealand resident. With limited exceptions, sales of overseas securities by one New Zealand resident to another may be made only in exchange for other overseas securities or for any overseas currency. The only overseas securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for New Zealand currency are those that were registered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for which scrip or other documents of title were issued; the purchaser must lodge the share scrip w i th the Reserve Bank. These securities may also be sold for any overseas currency, in which case the proceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zealand through the bank ing system or be reinvested in other overseas securities w i th in three months. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coin in New Zealand w i thout restriction. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than gold coin and jewelry constitut- ing the personal effec ts of a traveler require licenses issued by the Customs Department; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus- trial users. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are licensed restrictively. Changes during 1981 January 29. An import license tendering scheme was introduced for a wide range of consumer goods includ- ing foodstuffs and household appliances. April 28. Restrictions were lifted on exports of feed- grains to the U.S.S.R. May 1. An agreement was signed with Japan to voluntarily limit compound butter exports to 27,600 tons over the next three years. July 1. Duties on imported wines were raised by between $NZ 20.85 and $NZ4 .50 a liter above the prevailing duty of 20 per cent. 320 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nicaragua is the N icaraguan Cordoba. Nicaragua ma in ta ins a dual exchange market system. Certain current and capital receipts must be surrendered to the Central Bank or its au tho r ized agents at the official exchange rate, and the Central Bank or its authorized agents will sell foreign exchange at the official rate for specified current and capital payments and transfers. All other permitted foreign exchange transactions take place at freely determined market rates. Only autho- rized dealers may purchase foreign exchange in the parallel ma rke t; dealings without participation of an authorized intermediary are prohibited. The Central Bank may impose limits on transactions in the parallel marke t, as well as on the spread between bid and o f fer rates. On December 31, 1981 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were C$10.00 and C$10.10, respectively, per US$1. The intervention cur- rency in the official market is the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom Ju ly 20, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank, which has sole au tho r i ty to buy and sell foreign exchange. This authority has been delegated to the commercial banks w i th regard to transactions at the official exchange rate and to some seven private exchange houses that have been authorized in Managua to deal in the parallel marke t. The Central Bank is responsible for classifying imports, for issuing export authorizations, for au tho r iz ing sales of exchange at the official rate for capi- tal transactions and for paymen ts of invisibles, and for regulating the operation of the parallel market. The Central Bank is authorized to impose a limit on the amount of transactions effected du r ing a certain period in the parallel market and on the spread between bid and offer rates. Dealers in this market have to keep account of all transactions and submit their books to the Cen tral Bank at the end of each mon th. There is a special commission for foreign trade consisting of rep- resentatives f rom the Central Bank, the Ministries of P lann ing, Indus try, External Trade, and the governing jun t a. (There is also a foreign exchange control machin- ery which is a responsibility of the Central Bank .) The commission meets several times a week to allocate for- eign exchange among import applicants eligible for pur- chases at the official exchange rate. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily conver- tible into U.S. dollars in international markets. Pay- ments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Hon- duras in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the Central American Clearing House. For compensation through the Clear- ing House, the Central Bank does not accept banknotes of El Salvador in excess of 100,000 Salvadoran colones a month and of Guatemala in excess of 200,000 Guate- ma lan quetzales. Imports and Import Payments All importers are required to be registered with the M in is try of External Trade; this requ irement can be waived for individuals who import only occasionally for their own needs and who settle with foreign exchange obtained f rom the parallel market. In principle, licenses are valid un t il the end of the calendar year in which they are issued, but the Central Bank may limit the va l id i ty of permits in individual cases to 60 days. There are several categories of registered importers. The Empresa Nicaraguense de Insumos Agropecuarios, which imports agricultural inputs, and the Empresa Nicaraguense de Importaciones, which imports capital goods for nationalized enterprises, are state enterprises that are under the Ministry of External Trade; they are not the sole importers of these products. Other com- mercial and indus tr ial importers include those who are permitted to import for further sale and those who may only import for their own indus tr ial needs. A special permit is required f rom the Ministry of External Trade for each individual import including imports settled with fore ign exchange from the parallel market. Importers can place requests with the Ministry of Indus t ry who will then decide whether to pass on the request for con- sideration to the Commission for Foreign Trade. There are no priority lists for imports and each application is considered on its merits. If an application for official fore ign exchange is rejected, the importer can ask for authorization to buy the foreign exchange in the parallel market. Payments for imports from the Central American region must be effected in cordobas by bank check or certified check authorized for conversion through the Central American Clearing House. Payments for imports from outside the Central American region must be made with exchange purchased from the bank ing system.1 Payments are usua l ly made by sight draf ts. Letters of credit are used for imports from Japan. Cen- 1 However, by v ir tue of Decree No. 1-L (effec t ive March 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds f rom bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by-products exported through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the Department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for commodities not produced in Nicaragua, which they themselves import for the exclusive use of or consumption by the inhabitants of those areas. 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds The Ministry of External Trade is responsible for the four state enterprises that monopolize exports of coffee, cotton, meat, and sugar, respectively. These exports require a general authorization from the Central Bank. Exports of all other nontraditional goods require specific authorization from the Central Bank. The Central Bank issues the authorization a f ter ver ify ing that the export prices are consistent with those prevailing in in terna- t ional markets. Foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered within 30 to 60 days of shipment at the official exchange rate, depending on the modality of paymen t. Failure to surrender foreign exchange from export proceeds will result in revocation of the export license. Small border traders, at the end of each month, must surrender at the official exchange rate any excess of export receipts over import payments. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange from invisibles can be sold in the para l lel ma rket provided th at they f a ll w i th in the follow- ing categories: receipts from tourist and business travel (a l though the Central Bank is authorized to request that a certain proportion of hotel costs be surrendered at the official exchange r a t e ); fam i ly remittances received from relatives up to a specified degree of a f f in i ty; g if ts of less than US$5,000 a year, except if the g i ft is used to import goods for a useful project; l i fe insurance pro- ceeds if the premiums are financed through the parallel ma rke t; pensions received from abroad. Embassies must sell all their foreign currency inflow at the official exchange rate. Fifty per cent of the wages of foreign recruited employees is returnable in foreign exchange at the official rate; the 50 per cent ratio can be modified by the Central Bank in justifiable cases. To finance imports, the embassy can apply for foreign exchange at the official rate. Capital Authorization from the Central Bank is required for NICARAGUA tral bank approval is required to open both a sight letter of credit and a term letter of credit. The banks are not permitted to sell exchange for import payments in advance of the arrival of the documents. The Central Bank may authorize deferred payments or payment with funds derived from properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are capital goods intended for development or production or for basic works complementary to production; such permis- sion is at present limited mainly to industrial and agri- cultural machinery and certain raw materials. Imports are not released from customs unless evidence is sub- mitted that either payment or acceptance has been made through a bank. In the latter case, the Central Bank must also approve the importation on credit terms; this requirement does not apply to duty-free imports from member countries of the Central American Common Market. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, Nicaragua grants duty exon- erations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial firms. Most imports originating outside the Central Ameri- can Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Certain commodities are subject to a compensatory (selective) consumption tax, irrespective of their origin. Further- more, most commodities are subject to an 8 per cent general sales tax, whether they are imported or domes- tically produced, and there is an additional 2 per cent consumption tax levied for the benefit of the Municipal Welfare Board when the import takes place through Managua. Payments for Invisibles All sales of exchange at the official rate for payments related to invisibles must be authorized by the Central Bank. Amounts above those authorized by the Central Bank may be purchased in the parallel market. Foreign currency notes may be exported freely. Airlines operat- ing or represented in Nicaragua must accept paytrvetvt for tickets to Miami, New Orleans, Panama and other cities close to Managua in cordobas at the official exchange rate plus a commission of 1 per cent. The Central Bank will authorize the sale of foreign exchange at the official rate to these companies equivalent to the U.S. dollar amount of invoicing for services. Tickets for travel beyond these cities are to be paid in foreign exchange obtainable in the parallel market. There are no other restrictions on travel abroad. Foreign exchange for tourism abroad and legitimate remittances can be obtained from the parallel market. For travel related to medical treatment, an allowance of up to US$3,000 a year or more upon verification, may be purchased at the official rate for hospital bills and medical expenses. A guarantee deposit in cordobas for the equivalent of 100 per cent is requested but subsequently reimbursed upon proof of expenses. N icaraguan cordobas. The Central Bank sells gold to domestic, indus tr ia l, and other users. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967, 1975, and 1980. Changes during 1981 March 14. The Government authorized the Central Bank to request more extensive informa t ion on import applications and to grant permits that would be valid for not more than 60 days. In addition, legal provisions were made (but not yet in t roduced) to empower insti- tu t ions such as hotels that earn foreign exchange by selling services to charge their customers in foreign currency. September 9. An Economic Emergency Law was pro- claimed; in regard to the exchange system, the law con- tained regulations intended to reduce fu r ther private capital outflows and to regulate the operation of the parallel market, as follows: (a) Small border traders were required to obtain import and export licenses f rom the M in is try of Exter- nal Trade, valid un t il the end of the calendar year in which it was issued. A requirement was also introduced for a special perm it from the same Ministry for each individual export and import transaction. Export per- mits would be required to be presented to the Cen tral Bank, which would keep accounts of imports and exports of each small trader; at the end of the mon th any excess of export receipts over import payments must be surrendered at the official exchange rate. (b) Foreign exchange f rom invisibles could be sold in the parallel market provided that they were within the following categories: receipts from tourist and busi- ness travel (the Central Bank was, however, authorized to request that a certain proportion of hotel costs be surrendered at the official exchange r a t e ); fam i ly remit- NICARAGUA tances received from relatives up to a specified degree of a f f i n i t y; w i th specified exceptions, g i f ts of less than US$5,000 a year; life insurance proceeds if the pre- m iums were financed through the parallel marke t; and pensions received f rom abroad. (c) Embassies would be required to sell all their for- eign currency inf low at the official exchange rate; 50 per cent of the wages of foreign recruited employees wou ld be re turned in fore ign exchange at the off ic ial ra te ( the 50 per cent ratio could be modified by the Cen tral Bank, in justifiable cases). To f inance imports, the embassy could apply for fo re ign exchange at the official rate. (d) Only authorized dealers might purchase fore ign exchange in the parallel market, and dealings without participation of an authorized in te rmed ia ry were prohibited. (e) The Central Bank was empowered to impose l im i ts on the amount of transactions in the parallel market and on the spread between bid and o f fer rates; dealers were required to keep account of all transac- t ions and submit their books to the Central Bank at the end of each month. (f) The advance deposit requirement for imports was abolished, as well as the requirement that private exporters provide a bank guarantee of 30 per cent of the export value; fa i lu re to surrender fore ign exchange f rom export proceeds would result in revocation of export licenses. (g) Taxes rang ing from 30 per cent to 100 per cent were in troduced on imports of luxury goods. September 1. A special commission for foreign trade was fo rmed, comprising representatives from the Cen- tral Bank, the Ministries of Planning, Indus try, and External Trade, as well as the governing jun ta. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Niger is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buy- ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived f rom the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange mar- ket and the fixed rate between the French f ranc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill on transfers from countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill on transfers to such countries.2 Transfers by the Treasury and the Postal Administration and transac- tions in banknotes and travelers checks are exempted. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Niger's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Sene- gal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Service in the Ministry of Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any informa t ion necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO, the Postal Administration, or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Economic Affa irs, Commerce, and Industry, subject to the visa of the External Finance Service in the Ministry of Finance, except for licenses relating to gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance. Import certificates for liberalized commodi- ties are made out by the importer himself and are approved by the External Finance Service. *The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de PA f r ique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 324 Prescription of Currency Since Niger is an Operations Account coun try, settle- ment w i th France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Opera- tions Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Gu inea-B issau, Liberia, Mau r i tan ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are no rma l ly made through the West A f r ican C lea r ing House. Certain settlements with Nigeria are still effected th rough spe- cial accounts.3 Settlements w i th all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in foreign currencies, or in French f ranc s, through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations per ta in ing to nonres ident accounts are based on those applied in France. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be credited w i th BCEAO banknotes mailed to the BCEAO agency in N iamey by an autho- rized bank's fore ign correspondent. Otherwise, the cred i t ing to nonres ident accoun ts of BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that m a in t a ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury is proh ib i ted. For- eign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, w i th the va lue of BCEAO banknotes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their fore ign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in South A f r i ca are prohib- ited. Imports of soap, cement, and cer ta in printed cot- ton fabr ics are prohibited, irrespective of or ig in, unless a special authorization is issued by the M in i s t ry of Economic Affa irs, Commerce, and Indus t ry. The import f rom any source of rice, paddy, hulled rice, wheat flour, butane gas, several types of fabr ic, certain footwear, and certain plastic goods requires prior authorization, irrespective of whe ther an impo rt license or import certificate is also requ ired. A s im i lar regime applies to imports of sugar, except f rom member coun- tries of the Common A f r ican and Mau r i t ian Organiza- tion, and to imports of matches, unless they or ig ina te in a member country of the West A f r i c an Economic Community. Imports f rom France and the Operations Account countries of all goods other than those men- tioned above may be made freely w i thout a license or certificate. Imports f rom other coun tr ies require either a license or an import certificate. Impor ts of v i r tua l ly all goods f rom Algeria, Morocco, Tun is ia, and the six 3 The bilateral payments agreement w i th N ige r ia lapsed at the end of 1977. However, Niger continues to ma in ta in accounts w i th banks in Nigeria cred i ted with receipts of exports to N iger ia by ce r ta in public enterprises in Niger; the funds are used to f inance impo r ts of oil from Nigeria by enterprises in Niger. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution original member states of the EC, many goods f rom other OECD countries and the ir past or present dependent territories, and a smaller number of items from the United States and Canada are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Imports of non- liberalized goods f rom non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area are made under global quotas in accordance with an annual program de term ined each year by the M in i s t ry of Economic A f fa i r s, Commerce, and Indus try. Licenses for cer ta in cotton fabrics are conditional upon purchases of the corresponding domestic product. Goods not subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction may be imported on an import certificate. The Societe Na t iona le de Commerce et de Produc- tion du Niger (COPRON IGER) has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities. These include wheat, wheat flour, green tea, and cer ta in textiles. All import transactions w i th foreign coun tr ies must be domiciled with an au thor ized bank when va lued at more than CFAF 25,000 c.i.f. at the border. Import licenses or import certificates en t i t le importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the authorized bank is satisfied that the impo rt transaction is genuine and in accordance w i th the import title. Import certificates require the visa of the External Finance Service if the goods have to be pa id for before they are impor ted. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted f ree ly; those to other coun tr ies are subject to the approval of the Ex te rnal F inance Service, which for certain transac t ions has delegated its powers to the authorized banks. Paymen ts for invisibles related to trade are perm i t ted free ly when the basic trade trans- action has been approved or does not requ ire authori- zation. Transfers of income accru ing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted free ly when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents trave l ing as tour is ts to countries other than France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies may obtain an exchange allocation equ iva lent to CFAF 100,000 a person a t r ip (CFAF 50,000 for children under ten yea r s ), which may be taken up twice a year; any for- eign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 rema in ing af ter re tu rn to Niger must be sold w i th in eight days to an au thor ized bank. The t r an s f er of savings from their salaries by foreigners wo rk ing in Niger is subject to prior approval by the Ex ternal Finance Service and is norma l ly limited to 50 per cent of net pay. Larger transfers are permitted, however, for bona fide reasons. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French bankno tes, and bankno tes of other Operations Account countries, in add i t ion to their travel allocation. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount NIGER in BCEAO banknotes bu t, when traveling to a country of the French Franc Area outside the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion, must declare these if they exceed CFAF 150,000. Nonres ident travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French bankno tes, and bankno tes of other Operations Account countries, and fore ign notes up to the amount declared upon entry,4 or, if no declaration was made, up to CFAF 25,000; they may also take out freely any amount of foreign currency travelers checks, etc., issued abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are proh ib i ted. All exports of rice and paddy require the prior authoriza- tion of the M in is try of Economic A f f a i r s, Commerce, and Indus try. Exports of millet and sorghum are pro- hibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the Office des Produ i ts Vivriers du Niger (OPVN ). Gum arabic may be exported only by COPRONIGER. With the exception of peanu ts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain other imported items, all of which require a license, all other exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries may be made freely. Exports of domestic produc ts and imported commodi- ties to other countries require a license and an exchange comm i tmen t. In principle, the due date of payment for exports to fo re ign coun tr ies must not be later than 180 days a f ter arrival of the goods at the ir des t ina t ion. Proceeds f rom exports, regardless of the buy ing coun- try, must be collected and surrendered through an authorized in te rmed ia ry bank w i th in one mon th of the due date. All exports, regardless of des t ina t ion, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles w i th France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be re ta ined. All amoun ts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within two mon ths of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonres ident travelers may bring in any amount of bankno tes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold co in ). Residents must surrender w i th in eight days of en try any fore ign currency in excess of CFAF 5,000. 4 This amount is reduced, when app rop r ia te, by the amount sold for CFA francs and increased by the amount of fo re ign notes acqu i red in Niger by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a fore ign cu r rency account, by exchange for other fore ign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase with CFA f rancs (such repurchase be ing limited to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000). 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER Capital Capital movements between Niger and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are f ree of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requ iremen ts that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad, over inward and ou tward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offer- ing for sale of foreign securities in N iger. Such opera- tions require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from au tho r iza t ion, however, are operations in connection w i th ( 1) loans backed by a gua ran tee f rom the Nigerien Government and (2) shares that are identical w i th, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in N iger has pre- viously been authorized. With the exception of con- trols over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above ), Monaco, member countries of the West A f r ican Mone- tary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign pr iva te persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over pub l ic i ty aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provi- sions described in th is paragraph apply only to trans- actions and not to the associated paymen ts or collec- tions. All investments abroad by residents of Niger require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.5 For- eign direct investments in N ige r6 must be declared to the M in is ter of Finance before they are made; at least 15 per cent of foreign investment by residents must be financed f rom borrowing abroad. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, du r ing which he may request postponement of the project. The fu ll or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Min- ister. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of invest- ments, whether these are Nigerien investments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or an enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per 5 Including those made th rough fo re ign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. 6 Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under fore ign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Niger of fore ign companies. 326 cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonres iden ts requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from th is authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and ( 3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans, inc lud ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 2 m i l l ion for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the no rmal ma rket ra te and that the proceeds of the loan are immed ia te ly sold on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of a fore ign borrow ing con- s t i tu t ing a direct inves tment is subject to the same forma l i t ies as the l iqu ida t ion of a d irect investment; the repayment of other borrow ings requires au thor iza- tion only to the extent that the borrow ing itself was sub ject to prior au thor iza t ion. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted certain guaran tees and facilities under the Inves tment Code of Ju ly 31, 1968 and its amend ing texts. Existing benefits accorded under the previous Inves tment Code have been ma in ta ined. The new Investment Code pro- vides for privileged or regu lar t rea tmen t. The la t ter provides assurances, for both new and existing enter- prises, with respect to indemnities in the event of expro- p r ia t ion and concerning nond i sc r im ina t ion between Nigerien nationals and foreign nationals; tax exemp- tions may be granted for new investments. Privileged trea tment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to na t ional economic development and falling within specified categories of industrial activities. Such trea tment may be accorded under two d i f f e r ent regimes, the approval regime and the agree- ment regime. Gold Residents are f ree to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Impo r ts and exports of gold f rom or to any other coun t ry requ ire prior autho- r iza t ion by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom gran ted. Exempt f rom this requ irement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles con ta in ing a m inor qu an t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t ic les ); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1981 June 20. Circular No. 015 /MF was issued, tighten- ing the regulations on foreign investments by residents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian Naira. Nigeria does not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions and pursues an independent and flexible exchange rate policy. The official middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is deter- mined on the basis of a basket of currencies. Official buy ing and selling rates are set at 0.25 per cent on either side of the middle rate. On December 31, 1981 the middle rate against the U.S. dollar was US$1.5418 per N 1, and the buying and selling rates were US$1.5457 and US$1.5379, respectively, per N 1. The Central Bank of Nigeria also quotes daily rates at which it is prepared to deal in pounds sterling. Rates for certain other currencies.1 All are also quoted exchange dealings are for approved transactions and are on a spot basis only.2 There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. How- ever, nongovernmental transactions are subject to a commission of 0.25 per cent. For approved transactions authorized dealers may deal at market rates, spot or fo rwa rd, between them- selves and with resident and nonresident customers. Authorized dealers may en ter freely into contracts with residents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any foreign currency for delivery at a fu tu re date, provided that the transaction is one that would be acceptable on a spot basis and relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to freight charges on a specific shipment of goods and is payable in a foreign currency. Forward contracts related to imports must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license or beyond the date of import, when the license has no expiration date or when no license is required. Forward contracts related to exports may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received within three months of shipment or within such longer period as may have been authorized. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for the following: copyrights; the repatriation of capital and transfer of profits; the raising of external loans, including repayment of such loans; borrowing in Nigeria by companies controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria (other than local bank overdraf ts to pay for impo r ts ); the granting 1 Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 The Central Bank buys and sells U.S. dollars and pounds sterling and is prepared to buy only those other currencies for which it quotes daily rates. of "approved status" to nonresident investments in Nigeria (other than investments in fishing, shipping, and in su rance ); and any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank is the principal administrator of exchange control. Most commercial banks and mer- chant banks have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance and are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any application that does not fa ll within the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank or, for the trans- actions mentioned above, to the Ministry of Finance. Certain hotels and rest houses have also been appointed authorized buyers of fore ign currency and travelers checks. All export proceeds and other proceeds in foreign currencies (except the proceeds of oil exports) are centralized with the Central Bank. The Central Bank supplies the authorized banks with foreign exchange for approved payments. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Trade and the Import Quota Allocation Committee, comprising officials of the Min- istries of Trade, Finance, Industry, and Economic Development, as well as representatives of the Central Bank and the customs administration. Import licenses for petroleum products are issued by the Nigeria National Oil Corporation. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments may be made in naira to an External Account in Nigeria or in any foreign cur- rency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries may be received in naira from an External Account, in any foreign currency that is freely exchangeable for na ira, or in any specified currency. Settlements with the Central Bank of West Afr ican States ( for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, and Sierra Leone are nor- ma l ly made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts, External Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts are maintained for resi- dents of all countries. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to resi- dents of foreign countries, with payments f rom other External Accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, with payments to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. Funds derived from local sources may be deposited in 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Nonresident Accounts. Such accounts may be credited with proceeds from services rendered locally, provided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to and approval has been obtained from the Central Bank before any foreign transfers are effected. Blocked Accounts are accounts to which are credited funds that are blocked by directives given under Section 27 of the Exchange Control Act. Imports and Import Payments 3 Importers must be registered if they wish to obtain individual import licenses. All imports from Namibia (South West Afr ica) and South Africa are prohibited, and the import of certain specified commodities is banned to protect local industries, to reduce imports of luxury goods, or for health, safety, or religious rea- sons. Importation of a few other commodities also is prohibited unless specific conditions set out in the license authorizing such imports have been complied with. Individual import licenses are required for a number of items from all sources, including raw or manufac tured tobacco, certain types of paper, pas- senger automobiles with an engine capacity under 2,000 cubic centimeters, certain processed food products, musical instruments and equipment, photographic opti- cal equipment, sporting equipment not manufactured locally, and various alcoholic beverages. Imports that are neither prohibited nor subject to specific licensing may be imported under open general license from any country other than Namibia and South Africa. Some imports are effected exclusively by an autonomous public agency, the Nigeria National Supply Company, Ltd. For most import transactions valued at over N 10,000, the import documents must include a clean report of findings issued by the General Superinten- dence Company of Geneva, which inspects the goods and verifies the price, quality, and quantity in the country of origin or shipment. Industrial raw mate- rials, spare parts, and books are exempt from this requirement. Authorized dealers may provide foreign exchange for authorized imports at sight of shipping documents or in accordance with such credit terms as may be arranged between importer and exporter (subject to the approval of the Central Bank for the private sector or the Ministry of Finance for the public sector). Import payments exceeding N 100,000 or import contracts exceeding N 100,000 and not covered by a letter of credit must be registered with the Central Bank and the Ministry of Trade, respectively. Payment in advance of shipment requires the approval of the Central Bank, except where prepayment is made against a letter of credit. For sight 3 On March 23, 1982 Nigeria temporarily suspended issuance of letters of credit, while considering possible options in the modification of its exchange and t rade system. Issuance of letters of credit was resumed on April 20, 1982 in combination w i th the prohibition of specified import items, the shifting of a number of other items to the specific import license list, and the introduction of an advance import deposit scheme rang ing f rom 25 per cent to 250 per cent of value for all imports. 328 transactions, the importer must present the customs bill of en t ry within 90 days a f ter the allocation of foreign exchange. The presentation of a tax clearance certifi- cate covering the preceding three years is a prerequisite for the gran t ing of exchange control approval for all import transactions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other countries are subject to ind iv idual approval; for some categories of invisibles this is granted by authorized dealers, either up to specified limits or up to the amount of the bill or invoice. Applications for paymen ts that cannot be approved by authorized dealers and are not among those (such as prof i ts and d iv idends) 4 that require approval by the Ministry of Finance are fo rwa rded to the Central Bank for decision. All insurance other than that for which facilities do not exist in N iger ia must be taken out with a company in Nigeria, and all insu rance companies operating in the country must re insure w i th the Na t ional Insurance Corporation. Residents are entitled to a basic tour ist travel allow- ance in foreign exchange up to a l im it equivalent to N 800 a person a year (no allowance for children under 16 yea rs ) ;5 there is also a separate allowance for pilgrimages. Foreign exchange for these purposes may be sold to residents by authorized dealers. In addition, travel agents and sh ipp ing and a i r l ine companies in Nigeria may sell t ranspo r ta t ion tickets for any destina- tion against payment in N iger ian currency. The cost of services rendered by travel agents in respect of hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc., must be covered from the basic travel allowance. Foreign exchange allowance for business travel is l im i ted to N 100 a day, up to 21 days a trip, w i th an a n n u al l im it of N 3,000. Residents wishing to travel abroad for medical reasons should utilize their basic travel allowance for this pur- pose. An allowance up to N 2,000 is available for surgery, and add i t ional amoun ts in excess of N 2,000 are provided when supporting evidence is submitted. Foreign exchange is granted for all bona fide expenses for education beyond the p r ima ry level. Foreign ex- change allowances for e lemen tary school education 4 P ro f i ts and dividend paymen ts rem i t ted abroad and disbursed locally may not exceed 30 per cent of a company's capital stock. New prof i ts and dividends may be rem i t ted as soon as they are declared, provided that, in the case of airline and shipping companies, a tax at the ra te of 10 per cent is pa id. The tax is held on account un t il corporate tax r e tu rns are assessed and filed. Rem i t tances of technical fees, management fees, and royalties are p e rm i t t ed where it can be shown that these are related to the import of mode rn technology. Paymen ts for technical and management fees requ i re approval by the M in is t ry of Finance. A m ax imum of 2 per cent of prof it before tax is pe rm i t ted. For new companies a lump sum is applied in lieu of the 2 per cent of p ro f it before tax for the first th r ee years. Similar policies are applicable to o ther paymen ts for services, such as those re la t ing to copyrights and t radema rk s. In the case of roya l t ies, exchange allowance is based on volume of sales, subject to a max imum of 1 per cent except for books and musical records, wh ich are t rea ted on a case-by-case basis in relation to in terna t ional prac t ice. Foreign consultants per- fo rm ing professional services in N ige r ia are allowed to remit to their associates abroad up to 30 per cent of the amount con trac ted. 5 The changes made in Nigeria's exchange and t rade system on April 20, 1982 included a reduction in the basic foreign exchange allowance for tourist and business travel. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution abroad are not granted except in special cases, such as those of handicapped children for whom educational facilities are not available locally. Exchange applica- tions for most nontourist travel must be submitted to the Central Bank. Rem i t tances by residents for gift purposes are limited to N 150 a year for individuals and N 500 for charitable organizations. Foreign na t iona ls residing in Nigeria may purchase annua l ly fore ign currency up to 50 per cent of their net income for all personal rem i t tances ( inc lud ing insurance, educa t ion, medical expenses, provident fund contribu- tions, sund ry payments, and the basic travel a l lowance ); applications in excess of th is l im it are examined on their mer i ts by the Central Bank. When tak ing overseas leave, foreign na t iona ls may also convert up to three mon ths' pay in to fore ign exchange. Residents are permitted to take out the equivalent of their basic travel allowance in foreign currency notes and travelers checks; nonresident visitors may take out any foreign currency notes and travelers checks that were declared upon entry, m inus the amount converted locally in to Nigerian currency. Travelers may take out N 50 in domestic notes and coin; all other export of N iger ian currency notes and coin is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Nam ib ia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Exports of beans, cassava, flour, groundnut oil, maize, m i lk, palm oil, rice, sugar, timber, and previ- ously imported food items are prohibited, as are exports of explosives, other th an indus t r ial explosives. Exports of cattle and g roundnu ts have been suspended. Indi- v idual export licenses are required for cigarettes and tobacco, hides and skins, columbite, tan ta l i te, unrefined gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products subject to control by the Marke t ing Boards (cocoa, cotton, cotton- seed, benniseed, g roundnu ts, g roundnut oil, palm kernel oil, and palm ke rne l s ). The sale abroad of all export crops purchased by the Marke t ing Boards is the responsibility of each Marke t ing Board under the general guidance of the Export Commodity Coordinating Coun- cil. The export of cer ta in goods (A f r ican antiques or works of art and objects that are being used or have been used in A f r ican ceremonies) is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. Exports of petroleum and pe- troleum products are subject to special arrangements. All other goods may be exported without a license. Export proceeds must be surrendered, through a commercial bank, to the Central Bank within three mon ths of shipment. Exports of petroleum and pe- troleum products, however, are exempt from the sur- render requirements. For all exports, the exporter is required to submit an exchange control declaration at the time of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in foreign currencies must NIGERIA be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, for sur- render to the Central Bank. Persons entering Nigeria may free ly bring in foreign banknotes. Travelers may bring in N 50 in domestic currency; all other import of Nigerian currency notes and coin is prohibited. Capital Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission is required f rom the Ministry of Finance for any ind iv idua l, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The contracting of suppliers' credit abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies also is subject to approval by the M in is try of Finance. The permission of the Ministry of Finance is required for borrowing in Nigeria ( 1) by any nonresident indi- vidual or company and (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a b a n k) which is controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary shortages of fund s, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may'increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraf t, or other credit fac i l i ty to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign cur- rency securities or buy f rom or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in na ira without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negotiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Exchange for the t rans fer of cer ta in assets by emi- grants or repatriates is granted on final depar ture from the country, but the t ran s fer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply w i th the Nigerian Enter- prises Promotion Decrees of 1972 and 1977 may take place upon receipt. Ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equ i ty capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy have been set by the Indigenization Decree of 1974, as amended in June 1976 and January 1977. Nonresidents in tend ing to make direct investments in Nigeria may apply to the M in is try of Finance for "approved status," the gran t ing of which means that sympathetic consideration will be given to fu tu re requests to repatriate the capital. The gran t ing of "approved status" is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral pa rt of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this status is not normally granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, or bank credit or locally raised loans are invested 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA in local enterprises. With minor exceptions, foreign- owned companies and commercial banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. The repatria- tion of foreign capital requires approval from the Ministry of Finance. Gold With permission of the Federal Ministry of Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for num isma t ic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed, without special per- mission, to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and indus tr ial users. Furthermore, the import of U.K. gold coin requires a license from the Commissioner of Customs and Excise, and the import of other gold coin requires a specific import license. Imports of gold coin and gold and silver bullion are free of du ty when made by the Central Bank; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs du ty at 100 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1981 January 1. As part of the 1981 budget, changes were made in the import system as follows: (a) con- centrated malt extracts were deleted from the list of prohibited imports; ( b) concentrated malt extracts and plastic pipes were added to the list of goods subject to import licenses; (c) the rate of import duty on artificial resin in liquid form (polyvinyl acetate resin) was raised from 10 per cent to 20 per cent; (d) import duties on the completely knocked-down components of trucks imported by approved assemblers/manufacturers in locations other than Lagos were generally reduced, while the import du ty on the completely knocked-down components of trucks imported into Lagos was raised f rom 20 per cent to 25 per cent; and (e) the ban on foreign exchange remittances for secondary school education abroad was lifted. January 1. The basis of compu t ing permissible profit remittances by foreign firms operating under technical assistance and management contracts was changed from a max imum of 3 per cent of net profit af ter tax to a max imum of 2 per cent of profit before tax. (For new companies a lump sum in lieu of the 2 per cent of profit before tax for the first three years would be applied.) January 1. The limit on home remittances by female expatriate workers married to Nigerians was raised to equal that of other expatriate workers, i.e., 50 per cent of net income. January 1. Changes were made in the regulations on royalties as follows: (a) royalties would henceforth be based on volume of sales instead of profit; and (b) royalties would be subject to a maximum of 1 per cent of sales value, except for books and musical records which would be treated on a case-by-case basis and in relation to international practice. November 1. The basic travel allowance in foreign exchange was reduced f rom the equivalent of N 1,000 to N 800 a person a year for tourist travel and from N 6,000 to N 3,000 a person a year for business travel; foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel by children under 16 years was abolished. 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Norway is the Norwegian Krone. The external va lue of the krone is pegged to a currency index number reflecting the average change in the exchange rates of the 12 currencies most important to Norway's external trade and payments. The exchange ra te is managed so as to allow only limited fluctuations a round the benchmark for the effec t ive value. The weights of the index are proportional to Norway's imports f rom and exports to each of the countries whose currencies are included. However, the weight of the U.S. do l lar is ad jus ted to take account of the fact that a great pa rt of the exports and imports of shipping services and petroleum produc ts are dollar based. The exchange ra te of the k rone for the U.S. dollar, the pr inc ipal in terven t ion currency, is fixed daily on the basis of the average weighted var ia t ions in quotations for the U.S. dollar in relation to the other currencies in the basket. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were NKr 5.7965 and NKr 5.8185, respectively, per US$1. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks' forward transactions with nonbank residents must have a commercial basis. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Norway fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Customs in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. Au thor i ty to approve most current payments has been delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Min- istry of Commerce and Shipping and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th all countries may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner in Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, be low). Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Con- vertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all countries. They may be credited with authorized paymen ts from any country, with trans- fers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds f rom the sale in No rway of convertible curren- cies. They may be debited for authorized payments from any country to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Authorized banks are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts for nonresidents, subject to the arrangemen ts for banks' borrow ing abroad (see section on Capital, be low) .1 Imports and Import Payments Most commodities do not requ i re an import license. Certain textiles and garmen ts o r ig ina t ing in coun tr ies outside the EC and the EFT A are sub ject to global quotas. Certain other textiles and ga rmen ts are subject to import licensing for surve i l lance purposes. There is a restricted list of imports of a limited number of indus- trial goods; however, many of the goods on this list are licensed au toma t ica l ly. W i th these exceptions, indu s t r i al goods may be imported freely upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain ag r icu l tu ral goods are restricted, irrespective of origin. A global quota list con ta ins a few quotas for ag r icu l tu ral p roduc ts for wh ich impor ts are permitted up to fixed l im i ts; these quotas app ly to all countries. New and secondhand ships other than ships that are 20 years old or older, and cer ta in categories of fishing vessels, may be imported freely,2 but special per- mission is required in order to ensure compliance w i th the regulations regard ing paymen ts in advance of deliv- ery. The import of radio equ ipment and rad io control equ ipment is subject to approval by the Directorate of Telecommunications. The import of a small number of commodities is prohibited for hea l th and s im i lar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, fish- ing gear of textile materials, pharmaceutical produc ts, and d rugs) are imported by government monopolies. Payments for Invisibles Payments to any coun try for all cu r rent invisibles, inc lud ing income from capital and con trac tual amortiza- tion, may be made freely. The authorized banks, how- ever, require verification if the payment exceeds the equivalent of NKr 2,000. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is the equivalent of NKr 10,000 a trip for each person. For business travel, the banks may sell reasonable amounts. Each person leaving Norway may take with him up to NKr 2,000 in Norwegian bankno tes, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100.3 Nonresidents leaving Norway may, in addition, export any fo re ign banknotes brought into the coun t ry by them. 1 Residents also may open fore ign exchange accoun ts. The cus tomer must have both income and exp end i tu re in fo re ign cu r renc ies. Hold- ings in these accounts must not exceed the amount requ i red to cover obligations due in the immediate f u t u r e. a Au toma t ic au thor iza t ion is not g ran ted for impo r ts f r om A lban ia, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Macao, Mongo l ia, and Viet N am. 3 W i th effect f rom J anu a ry 1982, the proh ib i t ion aga inst the import and export of Norwegian bankno tes in denom ina t ions higher than 100 kroner has been lifted. 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to any country against a declaration or a license. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports valued at not more than NKr 2,000 to any country are exempt from declaration or export license; for arms and ammunition, fish, and fish products, this limit is NKr 500. If payment is not received within 12 months of deliv- ery, a license f rom the Ministry of Commerce and Ship- ping is required. In principle, all exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered. A person entering Norway may bring in any amount in Norwegian currency, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100 (see footnote 3), and in other means of payment. Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Norway by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Nor- way. Outward transfers of capital require individual licenses; the granting of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward transfers of proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted free ly, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automatically. Payments for contractual amortization are also permit- ted freely. Most transactions in securities involving non- resident interests are subject to approval. Nonresidents are allowed to purchase shares and bearer bonds in Norwegian banking and industrial firms up to a limit of NKr 1 million.4 Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to fam i ly loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emi- grants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized invest- ments, have to be surrendered. Oil companies have general permission to hold their foreign currency assets as bank deposits and other short-term instruments with a ma tur i ty up to 12 months and may, a f ter special per- mission from the Bank of Norway, hold foreign currency assets with a ma tur i ty longer than 12 months. Norwegian shipowners, insurance companies, and brokers may open accounts of 30 days' maturity with foreign banks; upon special permission from the Bank of Norway, other Norwegian firms may also hold such accounts. On spe- cial application, permission may be given by the Bank for Norwegian firms having long-term currency debt to hold time deposits abroad in foreign currency and to 4 Beginning February 1, 1982, the limit on nonresident purchases of Norwegian shares was abolished. 332 purchase foreign bonds quoted on recognized stock exchanges, without limit on the m a tu r i ty of such assets. Applications for capital t ran s fe rs to make direct investments abroad are treated liberally, but portfolio investment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Resi- dent-owned foreign securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange, with the exception of securities issued by fore ign investment companies or mu tual fund s, are free ly negotiable between residents, provided that the securities originally were acquired by a resident before October 1, 1966, or that they were bought with the pro- ceeds of fore ign securities acquired before that date. Residents may upon application t rans fer cap i tal abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at up to NKr 350,000 a f am i ly ;5 such purchases by business firms, staff associations, etc., are approved for higher amounts. There are limits on authorized banks' borrow ing abroad. Authorized banks have to balance their com- bined spot and fo rwa rd positions in fore ign currency at the end of the day w i th in na r row marg ins va ry ing between banks according to the size of their total assets. Banks are permitted to hold positions in any currency that is covered in other currencies. A license from the M in is try of Finance and Customs is required to raise bond loans in fore ign countries. Bor- rowing abroad in connection w i th imports of ships must be approved by the M in is try of Commerce and Shipping. All other inward t rans fe rs of capital by nonbank resi- dents require approval by the Bank of No rway. Incur- r ing or providing guaran tee obligations abroad also requires approval by the Bank of Norway. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coin not contained in jewelry. Domestic sales of gold bullion and gold coin are subject to the regular value-added tax at a ra te of 20 per cent. Changes during 1981 January 27. The t rade and paymen ts sanctions against Iran were lifted. May 25. The limit on ou tward t ran s fer of capital for the purchase of real estate for recreational purposes was raised from NKr 250,000 to NKr 350,000 a fam i ly. December 17. It was announced tha t, on special appli- cation, Norwegian firms hav ing long-term fo re ign cur- rency debt could hold time deposits abroad in fore ign currency and purchase foreign bonds quoted on recog- nized stock exchanges, without limits on the ma tur i ty of such assets. 5 Beginning February 1, 1982, the l im it on o u tw a rd t r a n s f e rs for the purpose of purchasing real estate for recreational purposes was increased f rom NKr 350,000 to NKr 400,000 a fam i ly. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The cu r rency of Oman is the Rial Omani, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RO 1 = US$2.89524. Oman avails itself of wider margins. The Cen tral Bank of Oman ma in ta ins fixed buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar; on Decem- ber 31, 1981 these rates were RO 1 = US$2.89813 and RO 1 = US$2.89235, respectively. The commercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Oman in fo rmed the Fund on June 19, 1974 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control au thor i ty is vested in the Central Bank, but there is no exchange control legislation in Oman. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited, and the use of their currencies is also pro- hibited. No other prescription of currency requ iremen ts are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for reasons of health, security, or public policy. Imports of Maria Theresa dollars also are prohibited. Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. food s tu f fs may be prohibited in times of shortage in Oman. All other commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports the proceeds need not be repatri- ated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Paymen ts for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or be received f rom Israel or South Afr ica. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresi- dents, except that no paymen ts may be made to or received ,from Israel or South Africa. Investment in business firms in Oman by foreign physical or juridical persons requires prior approval. Such inves tment is regulated by a foreign investment law enacted in 1973, as amended in Janua ry 1977 and August 1978, and by a law for the Organization and Encouragement of In- dustry, which came into effect on Janua ry 15, 1979. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents, including private persons, may, without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also import and export gold in any form without a license and without payment of any customs duties or tax. Transactions involving Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited, and exports or re-exports of live animals and Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan Rupee, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at PRs 9.90 = US$1.1 The State Bank of Pakistan (the central b ank) confines its buying and selling rates within 2.25 per cent of this rate. On December 31, 1981 the State Bank's buy ing and sell- ing rates for transactions with authorized dealers were PRs 9.9000 and PRs 9.9156, respectively, per US$1. All transactions with the public in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers and money changers, whose dealings must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. In ca lcu la t ing spot exchange rates for other currencies, a marg in of 0.0625 per cent is provided on either side of the mean rate based on the previous day's closing buying and selling rates for the currency concerned in the New York market. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover their requirements of specified currencies in foreign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified currencies against U.S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. In addition, they offer forward cover in Asian monetary units for exports and imports effected under the Asian Clearing Union arrangement, with the State Bank standing ready to cover fo rwa rd contracts reported by authorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases and sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated authority to a number of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits prescribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses and permits, as well as the implementation of import and export policies. Certain foreign trade trans- actions are conducted through various state trading agencies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (TCP), the Cotton Export Corporation, Ltd. (CECP), and the Rice Export Corporation, Ltd. (RECP ). Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad must be effected through an authorized fore ign exchange dealer, iW i th effect from Janua ry 8, 1982 the Pakistan rupee ceased to be pegged to the U.S. dollar, and a managed floating exchange ra te system was introduced under which the U.S. dollar continued to be the intervention currency. The exchange ra te for the Pakistan rupee will be fixed daily by the State Bank of Pakistan; on J anu a ry 8, 1982 the State Bank buying rate from authorized dealers was PRs 10.10 = US$1. 334 in principle, in any convertible currency or in Pakistan rupees from or to nonresident rupee bank accounts. Certain settlements with specified countries are chan- neled through special accounts. Letters of credit for imports from all other countries must be established in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, the domestic currency of the beneficiary, the currency of the coun t ry of origin or shipment, or in Pakistan rupees for credit to a nonresident bank account. No exchange control is exercised over transac t ions with Afghan is tan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or in A fghan currency. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled th rough special accounts in inconvertible currencies. Trade in specified commodities with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea, Poland, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. is settled through special nonconvertible accounts. The special accounts w i th the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. are ma in ta ined in noncon- vertible U.S. dollars, and the special account with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is denominated in deutsche mark. Payments to and f rom I ran and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, I ran ian oil, and defense materials) are settled through clearing accounts m a i n t a i n ed by the respective central banks in U.S. dollars. Payments to, and receipts f rom, member coun- tries of the Asian Clearing Union other than Iran (i.e., Bangladesh, Burma, India, Nepal, and Sri L ank a) in respect of current transactions (other than those relat- ing to petroleum, na tural gas, and their p roduc ts) may be effected in Asian Monetary Un i ts through the Asian Clearing Union or in the domestic currency of one of the member countries involved in such trans- actions. Payments between Pakistan and Israel and South A f r ica are suspended. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resident outside Pakistan are designated as nonresident accounts.2 Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for nonbank nonresidents without the prior approval of the State Bank where the accounts are to be opened with funds received f rom abroad through banking channels or with rupee funds that have been accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified purposes may be made by authorized banks w i thout the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of 2 D ifferent rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of ind iv idua ls, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution India, other than the accounts of the Ind ian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Pakistani nationals residing abroad and foreign nationals, whether resident abroad or in Pakistan, may open foreign currency accounts with banks in Pakistan without prior approval of the exchange control authori- ties. There are no restrictions on the currencies in which the accounts may be denominated; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt f rom income tax. A deposit holder wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn f rom his account into Pakistan rupees. If a Pakistani na t ional holding such an account re tu rns to Pakistan, he may re ta in the account unless his stay exceeds six months; thereaf ter, the account must be closed and the exchange sur- rendered. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are classified into two lists: a free list and a tied list. Items on the tied list may be pro- cured only f rom tied sources under credits, ba r ter trade, loans, or the U.S. P.L. 480 program. Imports of items not on either list are effectively prohibited, except under certain circumstances (principally by export industries) as mentioned below. All imports require licenses, except goods imported by the Central Government for defense or other purposes, goods in trans i t, personal baggage, certain imports over the land routes from Afghan is tan and Iran, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification. Licenses for all items on the f ree and tied lists are issued on the basis of notification by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports.3 Generally, licenses remain valid for 12 months but in cases where machinery is specifically manu fac tu red, licenses can be obtained with a validity period of up to 24 months. Licenses for imports are subject to a fee of 2 per cent of the value of the license, payable at the time of issue. The basic two-list import regime is subject to certain supplementary qualifications, the most important of which are as follows: ( 1) Imports f rom Israel and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports of goods originating in these countries but shipped f rom third countries. Imports of goods f rom Ind ia ( inc lud ing goods of Indian origin from a third country) are allowed only for the public sector. (2) In order to fac i l i ta te barter trading and utilization of aid and to secure economies through bulk imports, the import of specified items is restricted to the TCP, unless the items are procured with U.S. aid. (3) The import of certain other items is restricted to the public sector or to 3 At present no licensing restrictions are applied to permitted imports by the pr iva te sector of all raw materials (except for ya rn made of synthetic fiber), all capital goods, and most consumer goods. For other perm i t ted imports of consumer goods, licensing ceilings are applied equivalent to 115 per cent of the value of imports during 1980/81 (July-June). PAKISTAN industrial consumers. Dates may be imported only from Iraq. (4) Special provisions exist for the import by export industries of items on the tied list f rom nontied sources and items not on either import list. Machinery not on either import list may also be imported by nonexporting industries up to specified amounts. (5) Private sector importers, other than those importing goods for personal use, who apply for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 20,000 or more, must be members of approved trade organizations. (6) The max imum c. & f. values for which licenses for the import of mach inery and mill work can be issued against various sources of financing to d i f fe rent cate- gories are (a) up to PRs 2.5 million, for commercial importers, subject to value restrictions of PRs 0.1 mil- lion a un it of machinery or spares; (b) up to PRs 10 mil- lion, for new un i ts involving a total capital outlay of PRs 20 million and not fa l l ing w i th in the restricted list of industries (i.e., those which are permitted to be set up w i thout sanction of any government agency ); (c) up to PRs 2.5 million, for new un i ts not covered by (b) above; (d) up to PRs 10 m i l l ion, for expansion of existing units not falling within the restricted list of industries; (e) up to PRs 2.5 million, for expansion of existing units not covered by (d) above; and (f) up to PRs 5 million, for licenses for balancing, moderniza- tion, and replacement of a un i t. Procurement of p lant and equipment of a higher value is effected by the financing ins t i tu t ions, with the approval of the M in is t ry of Industry. Except for imports of books, periodicals, and news- papers, irrevocable letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports. In principle, such letters of credit have to be opened w i th in 60 days a f ter registra- tion of the license with the State Bank for p r iva te and public sector imports, or w i th in 60 days a f ter issuance of the license in the case of imports under ba r ter agree- ments. For imports under tied loans or credits, which require that the contract be approved by the Economic A f f a i rs Division or another specified agency, licenses for both private and public sector imports rema in valid for the opening of a letter of credit for 30 days a f ter final approval of the contract. Oil companies and ref iner ies are free to open letters of credit for the import of crude oil and petroleum products w i th in the va l id i ty period of the under ly ing license. Remittances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases, e.g., mach inery and other cap i tal goods for which deposits have to be paid to fo re ign manu- fac turers, the State Bank may authorize advance pay- ments for a part of the value of the goods. No payments are permitted for goods o r ig ina t ing in or consigned f rom Israel or South Afr ica. With speci- fied exceptions,4 the State Bank requires banks to 4 Industrial mach inery ( inc lud ing all capital goods but exc lud ing consumer du rab le s ), ag r icu l tu ral machinery and components and spares of such machinery, all raw materials impor ted by manu fac- tu re rs of electrical equipment, capital goods and engineering goods 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN take minimum margins against import letters of credit at the following rates: 25 per cent for milk and cream (including baby f o o d ), butter, industrial materials other than those specified elsewhere, and unserviceable ships for scrapping; and 35 per cent for synthetic yarn and all items not listed above. Imports by the TCP are exempt from the margin requirements on import letters of credit. However, domestic letters of credit opened in favor of the TCP in relation to the import of any commodities through the TCP (except bleaching powder and imports under the Raw Material Replenishment (RMR) Scheme) are subject to the same minimum mar- gin requirements as are prescribed for import letters of credit for these commodities. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to Israel or South Afr ica. Authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remit- tances in accordance with the regulations. Certain remittances of a personal na tu re are subject to annual quotas, but applications in excess of the quotas may be approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remit- tances by Pakistani nationals to their families abroad require special authorization. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded to the underlying trade transaction. Except with respect to certain aid shipments, transport insurance must be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. Com- missions, brokerage, or other trade charges paid to foreign importers or agents by Pakistani exporters are generally limited to a maximum of 5 per cent of the invoice value, except for cotton, rice, and cement, for which separate regulations apply. The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Government's approval. Profits of branches of foreign companies may be remitted freely to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistani income tax authorities. On an administrative basis, the State Bank approves an exchange allocation of US$500 a person a trip for private travel irrespective of the number of days spent abroad; this allocation can be taken up once every two years. Additional exchange for business (including cycles), chassis of trucks, buses, jeeps in completely knocked-down condition, construction and engineering equipment, medicines, drugs, and medical and surgical equ ipment and appliances, pharmaceutical raw materials, medicinal herbs and crude drugs, X-ray films, artificial limbs and hearing aids and parts thereof, raw materials by manufac turers of fertilizers and pesticides, fertilizers and pesticides, raw materials for the vegetable and edible oil industry, crude oil and petroleum products, newsprint, vegetable seeds, tea, books, magazines, journals and periodicals, secondhand clothing, raw ju te, ju te bags, cement, items on the tied list, imports under barter, pulses, and raw materials against import licenses issued under the Export Performance (RMR) Scheme. 336 travel, medical treatment, education, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on an ind iv idual basis. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia and other Middle Eastern countries. Exporters of goods or services w i th annual export earn- ings in excess of PRs 2.5 million are entitled to a renewable one-year blanket permission for the purchase of travel tickets and travel exchange of US$130 a day up to US$3,900 for each business trip. Foreigners leaving Pakistan w i th in six mon ths f rom the date of their arrival in Pak is tan may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amoun ts they brought in and PRs 100 a person in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for Afghanistan may take out any amount of Afghan currency. Nationals wo rk ing abroad who visit Pakistan may retain for three months the foreign exchange they brought in. When leaving Pakistan, within three months f rom the date of arrival, they may take with them the unspent balance of fore ign exchange ( inc lud ing foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of US$50 a pe rson ). Larger amoun ts of foreign currency notes can be taken out if the currency notes were declared on entry. Nationals whose stay in Pakistan exceeds three months may take out foreign exchange, including fore ign currency notes up to a value of US$50 a person, not exceeding US$500 a family, provided these amounts were deposited by them with an authorized dealer immediately on arrival in Pakistan. Residents trave l ing to other fore ign desti- nations may take out PRs 100 a person in Pakistan currency and any amount in foreign currency notes and travelers checks sold by authorized banks under permission issued by the State Bank. Foreigners may make fam i ly remittances of up to US$500 a month f rom their net income in Pakistan. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities to any destination and all exports to Israel and South A f r ica are pro- hibited.5 Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. However, exports of certain specified items are subject to export quotas (name ly, maize, gram, and split g ram) or qua l i ty controls (such as batteries, electric bulbs and appliances, and oil cakes). The CECP has a monopoly over exports of cotton although private exporters may act as its agents; rice is exported through the RECP, and cement through the State Cement Corporation. Some chemicals may be exported only by the TCP or other public sector agencies. The State Bank requires a declaration by the exporter that payment will be received in accordance w i th the prescribed method and w i th in the prescribed period of time except for goods manu fac tu red in the export 5 Prohibited exports include fe r rous and non fe r rous metals (exclud- ing iron and steel m anu f a c tu r ed goods), edible oils, grains, da iry products, sugar, animal fa t s, beef, mu t ton, t imbe r, ce r ta in hides and skins, pulses and beans, chemical fertilizers, wet-blue leather, and certain vegetables. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution processing zones. The authorized dealer certifies the export form for shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months of shipment, although the State Bank may allow an extension of this period. Exporters may, however, with the prior approval by the State Bank, grant deferred payment terms. The surrender of A fghan cur- rency accruing f rom exports to Afghan is tan is not required. Export financing at concessional rates is provided for all exports (except wool, rice, hides and skins, and wet-blue leather) based on confirmed irrevocable letters of credit or firm export orders on a case-by-case basis under Part I of the Export Finance Scheme, or, alter- natively, on the basis of the previous year's export performance of the exporter as advance limit on a revolving basis under Part II of the scheme. Fiscal rebates are paid on the f.o.b. value of cotton textile exports and engineering goods as follows: yarn (7.5 per cen t ); gray cloth (10 per cen t ); and finished cloth, made-up textiles (including canvas footwear) contain- ing at least 50 per cent cotton by weight, engineering goods, acetate yarn, cutlery, surgical ins trumen ts, sport- ing goods, hand-knotted woolen carpets, and leather goods (12.5 per cent) .6 The rate of income tax and super tax is reduced to 45 per cent of normal rates on all income and profits derived f rom exports, except raw cotton and goods that may be specified from time to time by the Central Board of Revenue. Indus t r ial un i ts established under the Pay-As-You-Earn Scheme are permitted to utilize up to 50 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports for the servicing of suppliers' credit on imports of plant and machinery. Export duties are levied on staple cotton, oil cakes, molasses, semitanned hides and skins, and onyx blocks. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of A fghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be surrendered w i th in three months. Travelers may br ing in PRs 100 in Pakistan currency notes a person and Rs 5 in coin that is legal tender in India. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes and coin. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage indus tr ial develop- ment in Pakistan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who, with the approval of the Government, may start any industry in the private sector without conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is expected, however, that local rupee expenditure will ord inar i ly be met from local equity capital. 8 Hand-knotted woolen carpets and leather goods became eligible for the rebates on July 1, 1981. PAKISTAN Repatriation facilities are as follows: ( 1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established a f ter September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits reinvested in approved industrial projects with the sanction of the Government may be treated as investment for the purpose of subse- quent repatriation. (3) Appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatriation facilities do not apply to the pur- chase of shares on the stock exchange, unless the pur- chase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before Sep- tember 1, 1954. Guarantees provide for just and fa ir compensation in the currency of the coun try of origin of the investment in the event of nationalization of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan; the principal in such trans- actions can be repatriated at any time, but the prize funds are treated as savings for the purpose of exchange control regulations on outward transfers. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of foreign securities by Pakistani residents requires approval by the State Bank and is seldom permitted. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrat- ing or retiring from Pak is tan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country to which the t rans fer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as non- residents for purposes of transfer of securities. Gen- eral permission has been given in connection with the issue, sale, or transfer of Pakistan securities, excluding shares of public or private limited companies, in favor of nonresidents, provided that the securities are regis- tered at the address in Pakistan of the purchaser and investment is made on the basis of nonrepa tr ia t ion of capital and return. Pakistan securities held by non- residents may be transferred to other nonresidents against payment abroad, with the same facilities in respect of remittance of capital and earnings as those obtained by the transferor. A general permission has also been issued allowing foreign nationals temporarily resident in Pakistan to make investments in units of the National Investment Trust, subject to certain stipu- lations. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Pro- ceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresident capital assets that are not covered by repatriation arrangements must be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved govern- ment securities payable in Pakistan rupees or placed as time deposits with banks. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN A general permission allows Pakistani nationals resident abroad to acquire securities in Pakistan by remittance of foreign exchange or by debiting their nonresident accounts in Pakistan; dividends or interest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, must be credited to nonresident accounts and cannot normally be transferred abroad. Pakistani nationals require the prior approval of the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and the liquidation proceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through nor- mal banking channels. Gold The export and import of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank. Such permission is nor- mally not granted. Banks incorporated in Pakistan are not permitted to engage in purchases or sales of bullion whether in or outside Pakistan. Changes during 1981 During 1981 the interest rates on large foreign cur- rency deposits (of at least US$100,000) were changed on ten occasions. On December 31, 1981 the rates quoted ranged f rom 14 per cent to 15 per cent a year, compared w i th a range of 16.50 to 18.50 per cent a year quoted on January"1, 1981. The validity of a number of existing commodity exchange agreements was extended for periods rang- ing up to three months on several occasions during 1981. Only the concluding of new agreements is listed below. January 1. M in imum export price regulations were abolished on sporting goods, surgical instruments, and diesel oil; in addition, price surveillance on exports of cotton ya rn, cotton cloth, and cotton bags was discon- tinued. January 1. Import duties ranging from 25 per cent to 45 per cent were imposed on 11 basic raw material items. January 10. The terms and commodity lists of the September 29, 1980 one-year commodity exchange agreement with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea were published: all payments documents should be drawn in deutsche mark and all transactions should be channeled through a special nonconvertible clearing account in deutsche mark (FE Circular No. 2 / 8 1 ). January 24. Under the 1981 Haj travel scheme, the number of pilgrims permitted to travel against Paki- stan's own resources was maintained at 25,000. The limit on travelers under the sponsorship scheme was increased to 25,000, compared to 20,000 in fiscal year 1979/80; in addition, all pilgrims were required to travel under official auspices. January 31. The terms and commodity lists of the December 4, 1980 one-year commodity exchange agreement with Poland were published: all payments documents should be drawn in U.S. dollars and all transactions should be channeled through a special 338 nonconvertible clearing account in U.S. dollars (FE Circular No. 6 /81 ). February 21. The limit on the value of machinery imports, by existing industrial units not classified with- in the restricted industries, was raised f rom PRs 2.5 million to PRs 10 million. March 9. The mon i tor ing period for exporters under the Export Credit Finance Scheme was extended from four months to six months (BCD Circular No. 8 /81 ). March 14. Authorization was granted for duty-free importation of machinery for balancing, modernization, and replacement purposes by industries dealing in tan- ning, boot and shoe, leather garments, and glove manu- fac tur ing, sporting goods, surgical goods, and cutlery. March 28. An ad valorem export du ty of 30 per cent was levied on onyx blocks and boulders. April 1. The customs du ty on unpacked tea was raised from 49.5 per cent to 56 per cent. April 5. Minimum export prices of onyx blocks were increased by 25 per cent. April 11. The US$30 a day a person l im it on foreign exchange allowance for personal travel abroad was removed; irrespective of the number of days spent abroad, an amount of US$500 con t inued to be allowed each person once every two years. April 15. The procedure for g ran t ing foreign exchange for businesses to open offices abroad was simplified, and the normal l im it on such allowances was raised f rom US$20,000 to US$50,000 w i th amounts in excess of the latter subject to special approval. April 28. An import du ty was introduced on deco- rative laminates. May 3. The customs duty on unpacked tea was reduced f rom 56 per cent to 52 per cent. June 10. The terms and commodity lists of the May 17, 1981 commodity exchange agreement with Czechoslovakia (valid up to December 31, 1982) were published: all payments documents should be drawn in U.S. dollars and all transactions should be chan- neled through a special nonconvertible bar ter account in U.S. dollars (FE Circular No. 2 3 / 8 1 ). June 24. A one-year commodity exchange agree- ment was signed with the People's Republic of Ch ina: all payments documents should be drawn in U.S. dol- lars and all transactions should be channeled through a special clearing account in U.S. dollars. The agree- ment provides for the exchange of goods of the value of US$20 million each way, compared with a value of US$28.5 million under the 1980/81 agreement. July 1. The following measures were introduced with the budget for fiscal year 1981/82: (a) a com- pensatory rebate of 12.5 per cent was allowed on the f.o.b. value of exports of hand-knotted woolen carpets and leather goods; (b) the 85 per cent du ty previously levied on the import of wet-blue goat and sheep leather was w i thdrawn; (c) authorization for du ty-free impor- tation of machinery for balancing, modernization, and replacement purposes was extended to the marble indus- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution try and the Gem Stone Corporation; (d) increases in protective duties rang ing from 10 to 50 percentage points were introduced on 8 items; and (e) import duties ranging from 12 to 85 per cent were imposed on 13 raw material items. July 1. The 1981/82 Import Policy Order (IPO) came into e f fec t, invo lv ing the fo l low ing changes: (a) a number of previously banned i tems were added to the free list; (b) 36 items were sh i f ted f rom the tied list to the f ree list; (c) 9 i tems were sh i f ted f rom Part C of the f ree list to e i ther Part A or Part B; (d) 31 items were t rans fe r red from Part B of the f ree list to Part A; (e) the l im it for mach inery imports under balancing, mode rn iza t ion, and rep lacement was raised from PRs 2.5 m i l l ion to PRs 5 million; (f) the number of authorized consumer goods and raw mate- rials for consumer goods subject to licensing ceilings was reduced f rom 47 to 28; and (g) the requ irement that ce r ta in goods be imported only f rom Turkey was removed. In the case of the rema in ing impo r ts subject to licensing ceilings, licenses were to be issued up to a value equivalent to 115 per cent of the va lue of imports dur ing 1980/81. July 12. The terms and commodity lists of the May 14, 1981 one-year ( J anu a ry 1-December 31, 1981) commodity exchange agreement with the U.S.S.R. were made pub l ic: all paymen ts documents should be drawn in U.S. dollars and all transactions should be channeled through a special nonconvertible barter account in U.S. dollars (FE Circular No. 2 6 / 8 1 ). August 16. Under the 1981/82 Export Trade Con- trol Order, export prohibitions were lifted for 18 agri- PAKISTAN cu l tu ral commodities (11 of which rema ined subject to quota restrictions if necessary) and used copper or brass utensils. October 6. The foreign exchange limit of US$120 a day for business travel was raised to US$130, and the overall limit for a business trip was increased f rom US$3,600 to US$3,900. October 14. The limit on permissible licensing of banned items of mach inery was raised f rom PRs 2.5 million to PRs 3 million for expor t-or ien ted units and f rom PRs 0.5 million to PRs 1.0 million for non- exporting units. October 28. A revised list of m i n im um margin requ iremen ts for the opening of import letters of credit was issued. The changes involved a reduc t ion in the number of applicable rates to two (25 per cent and 35 per cen t) as well as the removal of margin require- men ts on a total of 24 items (BCD C ircu lar No. 2 4 / 8 1 ). November 2. The m in imum ma rg in requ i rement of 25 per cent for the opening of impo rt letters of credit for pulses was w i thdrawn (BCD Circular No. 25 /81 ). November 14. Au thor iza t ion was gran ted for exports of pig iron. November 21. Au thor iza t ion was gran ted for export of three types of agr icu l tural products, and exports of nine other commodity groups were exempted from quota restrictions. December 3. Au thor iza t ion was gran ted for recog- nized assembling firms to import in completely knocked- down condition a specified type of tractor (Be larus Model MTZ-50). 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Panama is the Panamanian Balboa, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at B 1 = US$1. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama; locally issued currency is represented by bal- boa coin and several commemorative coins. Commer- cial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On November 26, 1946 Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Office, a semiautonomous institution of the Panamanian Government. The Price Regulation Office is responsible for the implementation of restric- tions on imports of commodities that compete with national production and on certain exports. The Minis- try of Commerce and Industry determines the import quotas for commodities listed in trade agreements, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development, jointly with the Price Regulation Office, those for cer- tain agricultural commodities. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Quotas are imposed on imports of commodities com- peting with present or prospective domestic production; some of these are not being licensed. Imports of foot- wear are prohibited. Import licensing also applies to imports of various foods tu f fs. Other imports are free. Imports by the public sector, however, are subject to spe- cial requirements. Payments abroad may be made freely. In addition to import duty, a tax of 7.5 per cent of the f.o.b. value is levied on private sector imports of all dutiable goods other than specified pharmaceutical products and foodstuffs, for which the rate is 2.5 per cent and 3.5 per cent, respectively; books are exempt. Most imports are also subject to a tax of 5 per cent calculated on the sum of the c.i.f. value and all other import taxes and charges; among the exemptions are fuels, lubricants, and related products, as well as food- stuffs, specified medicinal and pharmaceutical products, and imports into the Free Zone. Exports and Export Proceeds Authorization is required for exports of coffee, coco- nuts, copra, and beef cattle, and for certain manu- fac tured products in short supply. Merchandise on which export taxes are imposed is also subject to licens- ing. Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, p la t inum, manganese, and other m inera ls, sugar, bananas, coco- nuts, scrap metals, pearls, an imal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of ce r ta in foods tu f fs, firearms, and ammun i t ion are p roh ib i ted. Ce r ta in non- traditional exports are eligible for tax credit certificates. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. A travel tax of 4 per cent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on such tickets pur- chased for travelers s ta r t ing the ir t r ip in Panama. Capital No exchange control requ i remen ts are imposed on capital receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresidents. Several foreign-controlled banks are authorized to con- duct business only w i th nonresidents. Gold Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins with face values of B 100 and B 500, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely hold gold in any fo rm at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any fo rm w i th residents or nonres iden ts at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry carried as personal effec ts by travelers are subject to license if made by residents other than the monetary authorities; import licenses are issued freely by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try, and export licenses are granted by the M in is t ry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unwo rk ed gold p roduced in Panama are subject to an export du ty of 1 per cent ad valorem, and exports of gold coin (other than U.S. coins, which are exemp t) to a duty of 0.5 per cent. Changes during 1981 February 26. Imports of foo twear were p roh ib i ted. May 20. Imports of wooden poles were subjected to quan t i ta t ive restrictions. August 21. Import duties were modified on a number of products. 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Guinea Kina. The exchange rate of the kina in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is adjusted da i ly on the basis of its re la t ionsh ip to a weighted basket of currencies representing Papua New Guinea's ma jor trad ing partners. On December 31, 1981 the off ic ial buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$1.4703 and US$1.4687, respectively, per K 1. For transac t ions w i th the public, outer l im i ts are set on buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and the Aus t ra l ian dollar. On December 31, 1981 the rates for the public posted by the authorized dealers were US$1.4735 buy ing and US$1.4655 selling, per K 1, and $A 1.3069 buy ing and $A 1.2989 selling, per K 1. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Maxi- mum spreads of 2 per cent between buy ing and se l l ing rates are prescribed for other currencies. Papua New Gu inea fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- men t, as from December 4, 1975. Administration of Control The Bank of Papua New Guinea adm in is ters exchange control according to the Foreign Exchange Regulations issued in November 1973. Overall policy is determined by the Government with the advice of the Bank of Papua New Guinea and the Depa r tment of Finance. The Bank of Papua New Guinea has delegated extensive powers to the commercial banks ope ra t ing in Papua New Gu inea, which have been appointed authorized dealers in fore ign exchange. Export l icens ing is adm in- istered by the Depa r tment of Foreign A f f a i rs and Trade. Prescription of Currency Con trac tual commitments, which are expressed in a foreign currency, to persons resident outside Papua New Gu inea must be met by payments in foreign cur- rency.1 Export proceeds may be received in any for- eign currency or in kina f r om an overseas bank's account in Papua New Guinea. Nonresident Accounts The Bank of Papua New Gu inea controls all credits to nonresident bank accounts; funds credited to such accounts may be w i thd rawn w i thout fu r ther fo rma l i ty. Only in exceptional circumstances is approval given for a nonresident bank account to be denom ina ted in a foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a limited number of goods are restricted for hea l th, secu r i ty, and protective reasons. Imports of 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the kina. frozen poultry, flour, and stock feed are subject to quotas for reasons of domestic protection; quotas are ad ju s ted quar ter ly, reflecting the extent to which local p roduc t ion can meet domestic demand. There are no import licensing requirements. Au tho- rized dealers have powers to approve most t ransac t ions w i thout completing application fo rms or re fe r r ing to the B a nk of Papua New Gu inea. Approval is given for payment to be made under extended credit terms for items such as capital equipment. Import paymen ts should be settled within 90 days of the arrival of the goods in the country. Payments for Invisibles App roval is read i ly given for most paymen ts for invisibles, prov ided that supporting documen ta t ion can be produced. The remittance overseas of l i fe insu rance p r em i ums on new policies w r i t ten a f ter December 31, 1975 in the names of permanent residents is not per- m i t t ed. No absolute limits are imposed on travel f u n d s, a l though applications for exceptionally large amounts are referred to the Bank of Papua New Gu inea for consideration. Travelers may not take or send out of Papua New Guinea domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coin; however, domestic co ins issued for num i sma t ic purposes may be taken out f r e e ly. Overseas v is i tors are f ree to take out any cur- rency wh ich they had brought in and recorded on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Res iden ts of Papua New Gu inea may export goods w i thout exchange control fo rma l i ty on condition that they comply with the terms of the general authority issued by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The essen- t ial conditions of this au thor i ty are that payment for goods exported is received w i th in six months of the da te of export and that the proceeds are sold to an au tho r ized dealer in Papua New Guinea. Where exporters are not in a position to comply w i th the con- d i t ions of the general authority, they must apply to the Bank for a specific authority. No authority is needed for certain categories of goods, including sundry items such as passengers' personal effects. Export licenses are required for all types of goods under the Exports (Con- trol and Va lua t ion) Act. Special provisions are in force for the export of prescribed goods (logs, pearls, tuna fish, and wood ch ips ). Specified commodities are sub- ject to export levies. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required only for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA Capital Ou tward transfers of overseas-owned capital are allowed without l im i t; advance commitments, however, are given only in exceptional circumstances. New investment outside Papua New Guinea by permanent residents and by companies and other organizations operating in Papua New Guinea is subject to certain limitations. Where an investment is for portfolio rea- sons, the amount which may be invested in a 12-month period is limited to K 10,000 for individuals, K 25,000 for pr iva te companies, and K 100,000 for public com- panies. Investment may only be in the form of marke t- able company securities and real estate. The approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea is needed for the acquisition and disposal of foreign securities by per- m an ent residents.2 Persons who have been declared to be temporary residents by an authorized dealer or the Bank of Papua New Guinea may repatriate their surplus earnings without limit. Approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is required for all new or increased foreign investment in Papua New Gu inea. In most cases the Bank of Papua New Guinea refers such applications to the Ministry of 2 Foreign securities are defined in the Central Banking Act as including deposits in overseas bank accounts and debts due by persons outside Papua New Guinea. Finance. Foreign investments other than those in bank- ing and insurance are also subject to approval by the Na t ional Investment and Development Authority. In addition to investment in the form of loans and equity capital, approval from the Bank of Papua New Guinea is also necessary for the acknowledgment of indebted- ness so that a right to receive a payment is conferred on a nonresident. Gold Under the Central Bank ing (Go ld) Regulations, approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is neces- sary for the sale, purchase, export, and import of gold. However, the regulations permit Papua New Guinea m iners to export gold to Aus tra l ia for re f in ing w i thout specific approval. The regulations do not apply to gold used in the course of a person's profession, to Papua New Guinea currency, or to gold coins with a gold con tent of less than K 50 in va lue. A gold coin valued at K 100 is legal tender but does not c i rcu la te; it may be taken out freely by travelers. Changes during 1981 July 1. The settlement period for import payments was reduced f rom 180 days to 90 days following the arrival of the goods in the country. 342 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan Guarani, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at 0 126 = US$1. There are two exchange markets. Exports and imports (except unrecorded border trade and certain imports f rom Argentina and Brazil fa l l ing under the regional t rade regime —despacho aduanero regional), certain services, all government transactions, payments made under the reciprocal credit mechanism of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LA IA ), and registered private transactions and related profit remittances are channeled through the official market (mercado libre bancario), where the buying or selling rates are 0 126 per US$1, subject to certain taxes and commissions. Export surrender through the official market is on the basis of m in imum prices in foreign currency. A tax of 1.5 per cent is levied on purchases and sales of exchange in the official market, except for transac t ions with foreign embassies and diplomats, with meat packing plants, and those relating to investments in Paraguay under the terms of Invest- ment Law No. 550/75. In addition, banks charge a commission of not more than 2 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange. All transactions not channeled through the official ma rket pass through the f luc tua t ing market (mercado libre fluctuante), operated by authorized banks and exchange houses, in which the exchange rate fluctuates freely. On December 31, 1981 the buy ing and selling rates in the fluctuating market were 0 160.0 and 0 169.0, respectively, per US$1. Additional selling rates arise f rom application of taxes of 8 per cent on the c.i.f. value of a wide range of consumer goods imported f rom nonregional countries, 10 per cent on outward remittances of profits and dividends, and 30 per cent on outward remittances of interest, royalties, rent, honoraria, commissions, and other income accruing to nonresidents from Para- guayan sources. For interest payments on foreign loans contracted by national banks, this tax is applied only to the spread if floating rate loans are involved, and only to 6l/2 per cent of interest on fixed-rate loans. There are no forward exchange facilities. The authorized banks are required to sell 30 per cent of their daily gross foreign exchange receipts in the official market in specified currencies1 to the Central Bank. The Central Bank charges the authorized banks a commission of 1 per cent on its sales of foreign exchange at the official exchange rate. Authorized banks are not per- mitted to transfer foreign exchange from the official to the fluctuating market and are required to report their daily transactions to the Central Bank. 1 Argen t ine pesos, Belgian francs, Brazilian cruzeiros, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French f rancs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Administration of Control The Central Bank determines fore ign exchange policy and supervises, together with the Superintendency of Banks, the fo re ign exchange transactions carried out by banks and exchange houses. Prescription of Currency Payments between Pa raguay and A rgen t ina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made th rough accounts which the Central Bank of Paraguay and the o ther cen tral banks concerned ma in ta in with each other, w i th in the f ramewo rk of the mu l t i la te ral clearing system of the LAIA. Clearing takes place every f o ur months but Paraguay, as a relatively less developed coun try, may request special settlement every two months. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities requ ire authoriza- tion.2 Imports of wheat and wheat flour are effected by the Ministry of Indu s t ry and Commerce. Certain other items require a license from the M in is t ry of Interior; these are ma in ly narcotics, gamb l ing devices, and arms and ammun i t ion. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited.3 All other imports are f ree of quantitative restriction and licensing. Imports of certain commod- ities are subject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue for a period of not less than 120 days. Advance deposits are not required for public sector imports, impor ts by foreign diplomats and by foreign s ta ff of certain in te rna t ional organizations, imports of petroleum and petroleum derivatives, cer- ta in mach inery and agricultural equ ipmen t, wheat, cement, and printed ma t ter f rom any source, imports f rom neighboring countries and U ruguay, imports f rom other LAIA countries of items included in the Para- guayan concession list (the Na t ional L i s t ), and certain imports from nonneighboring countries, as specified in Central Bank Resolution No. 148/5. The Central Bank has authority to grant exemptions on a case-by-case basis. An exchange tax (recargo de cambio) of 8 per cent is levied on the c.i.f. va lue of goods covered by Decree Law No. 27018 when imported f rom nonregional coun- tries. Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are pay- able on most imports even if no fore ign exchange pay- ment takes place. An import surcharge of 36 per cent applies to most general imports f rom any source; how- ever, for goods or ig ina t ing in LAIA countries and included in the Paraguayan Na t ional List the rate 2 These include table wine in bu lk, n a tu r al grape must concentrate, rice in the husk or with any degree of processing, gasoline, diesel oil, gas oil, kerosene, wire, nails, dry cell batteries, and potatoes, garlic, and onions du r ing local harvest seasons. 3 These include certain textiles and con t inuous fo rms for use in cash registers and computers. 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY ranges from 3 per cent to 30 per cent, and for certain other goods from LAI A countries (mainly pharmaceu- ticals in a special l i s t ), the rate is 8 per cent. Fuel derived from petroleum is subject to a surcharge of 15 per cent (10 per cent for neighboring countries and U rugu ay ). There is an additional surcharge of 5 per cent on imports from all sources of telephone and telegraph equipment, television receivers, and radios and record players and their parts and acces- sories. Surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the principal imports exempted from the surcharge: wheat, cement, crude petroleum, equipment for petroleum exploration and exploitation, agricultural tractors, imports for the Gov- ernment, imports for religious, charitable, cultural, or educational purposes, and imports by foreign diplomats and certain international organizations. Agricultural and industrial machinery and equipment imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, agricultural machinery and equipment for the National Wheat Program, books and periodicals, and imports for invest- ments under Investment Law No. 550/75 are also exempted. Imports of investment goods and of raw materials for export industries receive exemption on a case-by-case basis. In addition to the above surcharges, a tariff sur- charge is levied on certain imports. On goods that are not exempt, the rate of surcharge is generally 12 per cent to 24 per cent (8 per cent to 16 per cent for certain goods subject to LAI A concessions) and the surcharge is levied on the c.i.f. value, calculated as the f.o.b. value plus 10 per cent for imports from neigh- boring countries and Uruguay, or the f.o.b. value plus 20 per cent for imports from other countries. Exempt from this additional import duty are public sector and diplomatic imports, raw materials and equipment for the production of goods that are subject to internal consumption taxes, imports under the Investment Law, and all imported goods taxed under the Internal Con- sumption Tax Law. Imports are also subject to sales tax ranging from 5 per cent to 10 per cent, and certain imports are subject to a 15 per cent ad valorem levy. There is also a 1 per cent tax on general imports and an import du ty at rates of 5, 8, and 12 per cent for intermediate goods and raw materials for industry. Imports of specified goods (including television sets and precious metals) may not be financed with foreign credit. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval from the Central Bank. This approval is normally granted only for imports of machinery and other capital goods. Import payments must be made through banks, at the official market rate of exchange. For certain com- modities originating in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and Uruguay, and falling under the regional trade regime, import payments need not be channeled through banks 344 at the official rate of exchange. As long as proof of payment of the preferential ta r i ff rates for these imports can be presented, payment may be effected with the importer's own foreign exchange or by purchasing for- eign exchange at the fluctuating market rate. Import payments are f ree from fo rmal restriction, but certain delays arise from t ime to time as a result of the system of releasing foreign exchange to the private commercial banks only on a weekly basis. Paymen ts through the LAIA clearing system are made promptly. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles are channeled through the fluctuating marke t, with the exception of government transactions, travel tickets for foreign technicians employed by government agencies, and remittances of principal and interest on capital brought in to the country and registered at the Central Bank under Investment Law No. 550/75. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. There is an ad valorem sales tax of 5 per cent on in terna t ional airline tickets. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and rough beams and some other unprocessed iois&X products s^e. prohibited, as are exports of rawhides and cement. Beef exports are sub- ject to annual export quotas, and certain other exports require prior au thor iza t ion in order to ensure adequate supplies for domestic consumption and to meet the needs of domestic industries. All other exports are f ree from licensing requirements, but some require a certificate issued by the Institute of Technology and Standards, the Ministry of Indus t ry and Commerce, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Stock Raising. The proceeds of exports must be collected within 180 days a f ter completion of the bank ing formalities related to the shipping documents. The foreign exchange must be converted at banks authorized to deal in exchange. For all exports the Central Bank establishes m i n im um export prices denominated in U.S. dollars. Export proceeds corresponding either to these prices or to the invoiced value, whichever is higher, must be surrendered in the official exchange market; for coffee exports, however, the equivalent of 50 per cent of the minimum export price may be retained and used to pay dividends and interest owed to nonresidents and to pay for machinery and equipment imported for the exporter's own use. Advance receipts of export proceeds must also be sold to authorized banks. Export taxation is based on a list of assumed export values (aforos) published by the Ministry of Finance. Most exports are subject to taxes, payable in guaranies, ranging from 1.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent of the f.o.b. value. There is a tax on exports of soybeans ranging f rom approximately 3 per cent for cooperatives to nearly 7 per cent for other exporters; exports of expel- lers and soybean flour are tax exempt. One group of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exports is subject to an add i t ional tax of 1.5 per cent. Exports of meat products are exempt f rom export t taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom invisibles may be retained or sold in the f luc tua t ing ma rke t. There are no sur- render requ iremen ts for proceeds f rom invisibles. Trav- elers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward t rans fe rs must be channeled through the authorized banks or exchange houses. Banks may provide fore ign exchange at the official market rate for t rans fe rs of registered capital, subject to presentation of appropr ia te documen ta t ion. All other capital movements are channeled th rough the fluctuat- ing market with the prior approval of the Central Bank. Investment Law No. 550/75 empowers the Government to grant special tax, customs, import sur- charge, and advance deposit concessions to proposed investments, provided that these are duly registered and approved. Capital imported and registered under this law may be re t rans fe r red in installments of up to 20 per cent f rom the third year a f ter the beginning of produc t ion, in the currency originally imported. Gold Decree-Law No. 18/52 provides that the Central Bank may prescribe the max imum amount of gold and fore ign exchange that may be held by residents; this requ irement does not apply to amoun ts held by the Central Bank or by ins t i tu t ions authorized to deal in foreign currencies. In practice, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may freely deal in gold coin, gold bars, and gold leaf with residents and nonresidents. Exports and imports of gold in any form other than jewelry by nonbank residents and indus tr ial users require the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank; paymen ts for gold imports by indus tr ial users may be made th rough au thor ized banks at the official exchange rate, and payments for imports by others must be made th rough exchange houses at the fluctuat- ing market rate. Changes during 1981 February 17. Import duties and the surcharge on a number of automotive parts and accessories were reduced, and importers were required to give preference to the import needs of Paraguayan transport companies (Decree-Law No. 23260). July 24. Taxes and stamp duties on exports of f ru it PARAGUAY and vegetables were reduced by 50 per cent until December 31, 1981 (Decree-Law No. 26765). August 8. Changes were made in the import tariff system as follows: (a) a wide range of durable and nondurab le consumer goods imported f rom nonregional countries were accorded the import duty reduction and consolidation benefits of the regional trade regime (despacho aduanero regional) (Decree-Law No. 27018, the provisions of which were restrained on Septem- ber 7, 1981 as shown be low ); and (b) the import duty and surcharge reductions established by Decree-Law No. 23260 of February 17, 1981 were extended to add i t ional automotive par ts and accessories (Decree- Law No. 27019). August 17. Exports of beef and beef products were exempted f rom payment of the 5 per cent income tax (Decree-Law No. 27340). August 21. Imports of capital goods under the terms of Investment Law No. 550 and financed by foreign capital were exempted f rom the 1 per cent commission on foreign exchange transactions (Central Bank Reso- lu t ion No. 130/6). August 28. Imports of whiskey and cigarettes were made subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance (Finance Ministry Resolution No. 2092). September 4. Commercial banks were authorized to deal in the fluctuating market for fore ign exchange on the condition of a prior increase in their capital of US$1 million (Cen t ral Bank Resolution No. 139 /3). The banks are not permitted to t rans fer exchange f rom the official to the fluctuating marke t, and must report their da i ly transac t ions to the Central Bank, which is under no obligation to sell exchange to the banks for cover. (On September 18, 1981 the autho- rized banks' overbought position in the fluctuating market was limited to 0 126 million each —Superinten- dency of Banks Resolution No. 1116/81.) September 7. Certain textile manu fac tu res were excluded f rom the provisions of Decree-Law No. 27018 and an 8 per cent exchange tax (recargo de cambio) was introduced on the c.i.f. value of all items covered by Decree-Law No. 27018 when imported from non- regional coun tr ies (Decree-Law No. 27740). In addi- t ion, a number of import duties on raw materials and o ther indus t r ial inpu ts were consolidated into single duties of 5 per cent, 8 per cent, or 12 per cent, depend- ing on the intended use and the destination of the final product (Decree-Law No. 22741). September 21. A number of items f rom nonneigh- boring countries were exempted f rom the advance import deposit requirement (Cen tral Bank Resolution No. 148/5). 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Peru is the Peruvian Sol. The exchange rate for the sol is established by the Central Reserve Bank in relation to the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, and is adjusted frequently on the basis of a set of indicators. Exchange market transac- tions may also be conducted in 14 other currencies.1 All exchange transactions must be conducted through the banking system or recognized exchange dealers, and banks and dealers operating in the unified exchange market are required to limit the spread between their buy ing and selling rates on any given day to not more than 0.5 per cent. No commissions are charged by the Central Reserve Bank on any exchange transaction. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S/. 505.582 and S/. 508.356, respectively, per US$1. Banks and nonbank financial institutions may open foreign exchange demand and time deposit accounts for residents and nonresidents. In addition, banks may issue certificates of deposit denominated in foreign cur- rencies. Funds deposited in these accounts or used to purchase these bank certificates must not be derived f rom export proceeds. Foreign currency certificates of deposit must be for amoun ts not less than US$1,000 and have a ma tu r i ty of not longer than 360 days. They are freely negotiable both in Peru and abroad and may be used by the holder for making all permitted pay- ments and t rans fe rs, including import payments. Trans- actions in foreign currency certificates usually take place at a small premium over the official buying and selling rates; since February 1979, the rates for these certificates have remained generally within 1 per cent of the official rates. Residents are f ree to hold abroad their foreign exchange receipts other than those from exports. If repatriated, such exchange may be sold to the banking system, or be deposited in foreign currency accounts, or be used to purchase foreign currency certificates of deposit. Export proceeds, including loans for the pre- financing of exports, must be surrendered to the Cen- tral Reserve Bank, which issues convertible foreign exchange certificates equal to 10 per cent of the value of such receipts. During their validity period of ten working days, these certificates can be converted by the exporter into soles or foreign currency deposits or certificates of deposit. The Central Reserve Bank issues ten-day exchange certificates for the remaining 90 per cent. 1 Belgian f rancs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, together with U.S. dollars, are prescribed for external trade transactions. For nontrade transactions, operations may also be effected in Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, and Venezuelan bolivares. 346 These exchange certificates are held by the surrendering bank for use by the exporter for his own permitted foreign exchange payments and transfers or for conver- sion in to soles at the buy ing rate in effect at the close of the preceding business day. If not so utilized within the ir ma tu r i ty, the certificates are canceled, and the corresponding amount in soles is credited to the account of the bank at the buy ing rate in effect at the close of the preceding business day, m inus a discount of 2 per cent. Peru fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export and import licenses are issued by the General Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Indus- t ry, Tourism, and Integration. The Central Reserve Bank issues foreign exchange certificates against receipts f rom exports, and authorizes, directly or by delegation, most paymen ts for invisibles. The Import Supervision Commission is the u l t ima te adm in is t ra t ive authority on applications for prior import licenses denied at a lower level and rules on the exclusion of importers f rom the Na t ional Register of Importers. It also exercises gen- eral surveillance over the flow of imports and their effects on domestic production and is empowered to make recommendations to the Import Valuation Com- mission. The la t ter commission exercises surveillance over customs va lua t ion and has the authority to pur- chase and auc t ion o f f, or to impose special duties on, those impor ts deemed to be underva lued or dumped. Public sector impor ts valued at more than US$10,000 require the approval of the Board for External Transac- tions of the Public Sector and must be registered with the General Directorate of Foreign Trade. Public sec- tor impor ts va lued at more than US$50,000 require, in addition, a resolution of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Commerce. Borrowing abroad by the public sector, as well as borrow ing abroad by the private sector with a govern- ment guarantee, is subject to prior approval by Supreme Decree, on the recommendation of the High Commit- tee of the External Debt, the National P lann ing Ins t i- tute, and the Permanent Commission on External Credit in the M in is try of Economy, Finance, and Com- merce. The National Commission on Investment and Foreign Technology (CONITE) supervises foreign direct investment in Peru, the use of foreign trademarks, patents, and licenses, as well as the related royalty payments. Most paymen ts for invisibles require the approval of e i ther CONITE or the Central Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency All exchange market operations must be effected in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution one of the 15 prescribed convertible currencies, but exchange certificates may be issued by the Central Reserve Bank only in U.S. dollars. Settlements in respect of trade transac t ions with Poland must be made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars, which have been established under a bilateral payments agreement. No other prescription of currency require- men ts are in force. Payments between Peru and Argen- tina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, U ruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts ma in ta ined w i th each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, w i th in the framework of the mul- tilateral clearing system of the La t in American Integra- tion Association (LA IA ). Imports and Import Payments Import prohibitions are l im i ted to cer ta in raw cotton products and arms, which comprise only 7 out of more than 5,100 eight-digit items on the Peruv ian customs nomenclature (NABAND INA ). Ano ther set of items specified by the General Directorate of Foreign Trade is importable on ly subject to prior approval (observa- tion) f rom the appropriate m in is try. They include items subject to public sector monopoly or deemed in need of protection or damag ing to public welfare. All other items may be imported w i thout quan t i ta t ive restriction but importers must be listed in the National Register of Importers. However, imports valued at up to US$2,000 a year are free f rom licensing or registra- tion requirements. An import license for imports f rom countries of the Andean Pact is not required nor is the listing of the importer in the National Register of Importers; the imports need only be registered with the General Direc- torate of Foreign Trade. Impor ts of raw materials and in termed ia te goods for the production of non t rad i t ional exports are exempted f rom import duties and a specific import license is not required, provided that the appro- priate ministry determines that such imports qua l ify under the Temporary Admission Regime. Certain indus t r ial raw materials and fertilizers, as well as certain agr icu l tural commodities, such as wheat, may be imported only by the National Enterprise for Industrial Marke t ing ( ENC I ), and crude petroleum and petroleum derivatives only by PETROPERU, a govern- ment agency. Imports of capital goods must be covered by irre- vocable documentary credits, and the intermediating bank must guarantee re fund ing of the foreign cur- rency if the import is not effected by the time the relevant documen ta ry credit expires. There are no m in imum f inanc ing requirements for imports, and advance payments are permitted except for capital goods imported by firms with an annual turnover in excess of S/. 10 billion. With specified exemptions, imported as well as locally produced goods are subject to a sales tax at a general PERU rate of 22 per cent, a max imum ra te of 40 per cent, preferen t ial rates of between 2 per cent and 6 per cent, and reduced rates corresponding to effec t ive rates of between 15 per cent and 20 per cent.2 Under the 1980 customs t a r i f f, as amended, the m ax imum import du ty is 60 per cent ad valorem, and the unweighted average rate at the end of 1981 amoun ted to 30 per cent.3 In add i t ion, many imports are subject to either one or both of the following taxes: ( 1) an add i t ional import tax for the promotion of non t rad i t ional exports of 1 per cent of c.i.f. va lue and (2) a ma r i t ime freight tax of 10 per cent of the ocean f r e ight charges. However, certain goods o r ig ina t ing in Andean Pact countries may be imported du ty free. Public sector imports must, in principle, be shipped in Peruvian vessels. Payments for Invisibles Au thor iza t ion of the Cen tral Reserve Bank or other agencies is required for most paymen ts for invisibles, but the sale of fo re ign exchange is generally authorized freely, provided g enu ine cu r rent paymen ts are involved. Rem i t tance of net profits, inc lud ing depletion and depreciation allowances, requires approval of CONITE and a prior tax clearance. In accordance with Andean Pact rules, the rem i t tance of profits on foreign capital invested in Peru is, in principle, l im i ted to 20 per cent a year, although a higher percentage may be permitted for investments that generate emp loymen t, are in unde- veloped areas, or help to d ive rs i fy exports.4 All pay- ments for royalties, pa ten ts, trademarks, and licenses requ i re the pr ior approval of CONITE. Foreign-owned enterprises may not enter into new contracts to pay royalties to a fore ign pa rent company or its affiliates. The effec t ive interest rate on a new loan f rom a for- eign parent company or its a f f i l ia te may not exceed by more than 3 per cent the preva i l ing interest rate for first-class assets in the money market of the country in whose currency the transac t ion is conducted. Approval by the Central Reserve Bank is required for purchases of fore ign exchange for paymen ts of interest on cer- ta in loans, for rem i t tances for social and human i ta r ian purposes, for income, insurance, and pension remit- tances to nonresidents, and for expend i tures of agen- cies, branches, and offices of nonresident firms. Inter- est payments by public sector entities require the approval of the General Directorate of Public Credit. The indicative annu al limit on purchases of foreign exchange for tou r ism is US$8,000 a person (US$500 2 Under Decree-Law No. 190, which took effect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1982, a u n i f o rm value-added tax of 16 per cent of the c.i.f. value of impo r ts ( in add i t ion to the impo rt d u t y) replaced the sales and services tax; exemp t ions f r om the va lue -added tax inc lude ag r icu l tu ral products, ce r ta in m ine ra ls and fuels, medicines, fe r t i l ize r s, pesticides, ag r icu l tu ral equ ipment and t rac to r s, av ia t ion equ ipment and ships in excess of 1,000 tons, and items for personal use ( in c lud ing automobiles up to 2,000 cubic cen t ime te r s ). S imu l taneous ly, a selective consump- t ion tax (also in add i t ion to the import d u t y) was in t roduced on l u x u ry items, r a n g i ng f r om 10 per cent to 40 per cent of c.i.f. value. 3 Inc lud ing the 15 per cent surcharge in t roduced by the 1982 budget, the average ra te stood at 34.5 per cent in early 1982. 4 Companies expor t ing at least 80 per cent of the ir production countries outside the Andean Pact and m in ing companies are exempt. to 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU a year for children under 12 years). For business travel the limit is US$400 a person a day up to US$12,000 a trip, plus representation expenses of US$500 a trip; approval of the Central Reserve Bank is required for business travel allocations. For both tourist and business travel, there is a flat tax of US$35 payable in national currency. Remittances for studies abroad require the approval of the National Institute of Scholarships and Educational Loans (!NABEC) and are generally limited to US$3,000 a month for external students and US$600 a month for residential students or those on scholarships. Indicative limits are also established for medical travel and for certain other types of travel. Family remittances by Peruvian resi- dents are limited to US$800 a month and the autho- rization of the Central Reserve Bank is required. For- eigners resident in Peru may remit up to 50 per cent of their annual income to cover specified foreign obligations, but those who avail themselves of these provisions are required to waive all rights to purchase foreign exchange under other provisions of the exchange laws. The Central Reserve Bank may authorize pur- chases of exchange in excess of the above limits in justified cases. Nonresidents visiting Peru for purposes of tourism or business may, upon leaving the country, purchase up to US$500 in foreign exchange on presentation of evidence that at least that amount in foreign exchange had been converted into soles in the preceding 30 days. The export of domestic currency in excess of S/. 1,000 by travelers is prohibited, but the Central Reserve Bank may grant exemptions in special circumstances. Exports and Export Proceeds The Banco Minero del Peru has a monopoly over the export of uncut precious stones and pearls, and MINEROPERU and the Banco Minero over exports of gold and silver. Among other exports, monopolies are held by MINPECO, over exports of zinc (until the end of 1982); PESCAPERU, over exports of fish meal and fish oil; PETROPERU, over exports of petroleum deriva- tives; and ENCI, over exports of coffee and cotton. These monopolies are a traditional arrangement, and the private sector is free to establish marketing links with foreign buyers of these products. Exports of com- modities specified as such by the General Directorate of Foreign Trade are subject to prior license, and all export proceeds, as well as export prefinancing loans, must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank within ten working days of receipt. Traditional exports must be sold against an irrevocable letter of credit confirmed by a bank established in Peru. In special cases, and with the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank and the General Directorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be sold against sight drafts, provided that payment is received within 180 days of shipment. Exporters of nontraditional products are granted transferable tax credit certificates (certificados de rein- 348 tegro tributario, or CERTEX) equivalent to a maximum of 22 per cent of the c. & f. value (the f.o.b. value is used when the goods are shipped in foreign vessels). In addition, 10 per cent is allowed for exports from outside the Lima-Callao area. Exports of local handicrafts recognized as such by the General Directorate of For- eign Trade are eligible for CERTEX benefits at a rate of 30 per cent. These certificates may be used by the exporter in payment of his tax obligations or may be sold to other taxpayers, who may use them for the same purpose. The Banco de la Nacion adm in is ters an export credit guarantee program, and the Industrial Bank pro- vides or arranges export finance for non trad i t ional ex- ports. Most trad i t ional exports are subject to a tax of up to 12.5 per cent, which is payable in soles, but exports of sugar and of copper from the mineral deposits of Cuajone or by small and medium-sized mining enter- prises are exempt. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be held abroad or sold to the bank ing system or deposited in authorized foreign exchange accounts within ten working days of receipt. Travelers may not bring in more than S/. 1,000 in Peruvian currency, but the Central Reserve Bank may grant exceptional trea tment in special circumstances. Capital Outward capital transfers require approval. For transfers derived from foreign direct investment the approval of CONITE is required, while for most other transfers the appropriate agency is the Central Reserve Bank. Minimum maturities and grace periods for d ifferent categories of external loans contracted or guaranteed by the public sector have been established. Furthermore, there was a global limit of US$1,400 mil- lion for 1981 on the contracting of new public or publicly guaranteed debt (with certain exceptions) having an original ma tur i ty of more than one but less than ten years. Loan amortization payments of the private sector are authorized by the Central Reserve Bank and those of the public sector by the General Directorate of Public Credit. In cases where proceeds of foreign loans have been used to purchase foreign currency bank certificates of deposit or to make deposits directly to foreign currency accounts, amortization payments on such loans are not eligible for transfer at the official exchange rate. Banks may receive funds originating abroad in the form of drafts, checks, bank transfers, foreign currency travelers checks, or foreign notes and coin for deposit to foreign currency accounts maintained in the name of residents or nonresidents. They may also issue foreign exchange certificates of deposit against such funds. These funds and the accrued interest thereon may be freely disposed of by the depositor, and both were exempt from income and inheritance taxes un t il Decem- ber 31, 1981. Under an exchange amnesty, residents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution may repatriate foreign assets without specifying the origin of such funds and without fac ing penalties for having violated exchange laws in effect prior to October 7, 1977. In compliance with the foreign investment regime approved by the countries of the Andean Pact, new foreign investments must be authorized and registered with the appropriate agency, in most instances CONITE, so that such investments are directed to projects con- sidered essential for the country's development. If a foreign company incorporated in Peru as of July 1, 1971 wished to benefit from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement, it was required to agree by June 30, 1974 to the g radual acquisition by national investors of shares in the company so as to transform it into a mixed or na t ional company dur ing a maximum period of 15 years following the entering into effect of this regime. For this purpose, mixed companies are defined as those in which national investors hold between 51 per cent and 80 per cent of the capital, while national companies are those in which at least 80 per cent of the capital is owned by national investors. Since June 30, 1974 the required participation of national investors in the capital of an enterprise has been not less than 15 per cent; this participation must be raised to at least 45 per cent after 10 years and to at least 51 per cent at the end of the 15-year period. For foreign companies established in Peru af ter June 30, 1971, the 15 per cent participation by national investors must be secured at the time of the initiation of produc- tion. Foreign investments in firms engaged in basic industries or in m in ing activities ( inc lud ing petroleum production) and in firms that export at least 80 per cent of their production to countries outside the Andean Common Market are exempt from the requirement of gradual t rans fo rma t ion into mixed companies; however, these enterprises do not benefit from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement. Foreign enter- prises may not have access to domestic credit on terms longer than three years or in amounts greater than their capital and reserves. Investment in the m in ing sector is governed by the General M in ing Law. Companies holding mining con- cessions may enter in to mining contracts with the Gov- ernment providing for special incentives and guarantees or may constitute mixed enterprises with government participation of at least 25 per cent. The Government may grant to mining concessionaries ( in i t ia t ing large- scale investment programs) tax incentives and guar- anteed availability of foreign exchange for transfers for ( 1) recovery of investment, (2) interest payments if the rate does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar loans in the financial market from which the loans originate, (3) payments for justified services, and (4) reasonable profit remittances, together with guaranteed access to the most favorable exchange rate. Mixed mining enterprises may receive all the benefits PERU and incentives which may be granted by special con- tract and, in addition, special tax reductions. Gold The export of gold and silver in the form of agglom- erated or native metals is the monopoly of MINEROPERU, while their export in the fo rm of precious metals is the monopoly of Banco Minero del Peru. The authorities do not make foreign exchange available for imports of gold other than by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial and professional users. Domestic sales and purchases of gold may be carried out by industrial and professional users, provided that they hold licenses issued by the Banco Minero del Peru, but only MINEROPERU is authorized to make the initial purchase of newly mined gold and other precious metals. Residents traveling abroad may not take out jewelry valued at over S/. 50,000 unless it has been registered with the customs (S /. 15,000 when visiting neighboring countries). Changes during 1981 January 3. The exemption from licensing or regis- tra t ion requirements of imports not exceeding US$2,000 a year was extended for another year until December 31, 1981 (Supreme Decree No. 269-80-EF). January 17. PESCAPERU was authorized to import 60,000 tons of fish oil free of duty (Decree-Law No. 17). January 19. Authorization was granted for duty-free imports of new or used trucks, buses, and taxicabs in 1981 (Decree-Law No. 18). January 23. Special regulations were introduced concerning exchange surrenders from the proceeds or prefinancing of the f.o.b. value of exports by petroleum companies: (a) the proceeds up to the approved annual projected foreign exchange needs of the companies were credited to an account designed to guarantee the avail- ability of foreign exchange; (b) for the remainder of the proceeds, the exporting petroleum companies would receive 10-day negotiable exchange certificates; and (c) import financing or foreign borrowing for explora- tion, production, and secondary recovery services by domestic and foreign petroleum companies was exempt f rom the 25 per cent deposit requirement on foreign borrowing (Exchange Resolution No. 1/81). January 30. The period during which capital goods and parts for refrigeration in the fishing industry could be imported duty-free was extended until December 31, 1981 (Decree-Law No. 24 ). > February 6. The tax amnesty for U.S. dollar- denominated certificates of deposit was terminated. February 7. Subsidization of nontraditional exports by means of tax payment certificates (CERTEX) was curtailed as follows (Decree-Law No. 2 6 ): (a) the basic CERTEX rates were reduced from 30 per cent to 22 per cent, 20 per cent, and 15 per cent; (b) the additional CERTEX for "exceptional cases" (10 per cent of export value) and for "new products" (2 per cent of 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU export value) were eliminated. As a result, the maxi- mum subsidization benefit was reduced from 52 per cent to 32 per cent of the f.o.b. export value, including the additional CERTEX of 10 per cent for "decentral- ization" of exports; (c) in addition to allocating an amount equivalent to 2 per cent of the total subsidy to the Nontraditional Export Fund, 10 per cent of the subsidy would be withheld for transfer to the municipal council of the area in which the exporting firm is located; (d) exporters must use Peruvian carriers in order to qua l i fy for CERTEX (see, however, Decree-Law No. 66, be low ); (e) six commodity groups previously eligible for CERTEX (hand ic ra f ts, gold, jewelry, alpaca tops and slivers, zinc alloys, cocoa butter and paste, and silver n i tra tes) were excluded f rom the scheme, with the proviso that CERTEX benefits at a rate of 30 per cent (but not including the bonus for "decentralization") could be issued to recognized exporters of handicrafts. February 7. Decree - Law No. 28 authorized US$611 million in foreign borrowing by the public sector. February 10. Exemption of sales tax for exports of cane sugar, agricultural products from the Selva and Ceja de Selva regions, and products sold by the Banco Minero del Peru was extended un t il December 31, 1981 (Supreme Decree No. 283-80-EF). February 16. External loans for imports of capital goods were exempted retroactively from the 25 per cent deposit requirement in local currency (Exchange Reso- lu t ion No. 2 /81 ). February 18. Import ta r i f fs were reduced on com- modities in 80 tar iff categories comprising f ru i ts, vege- tables, coffee, and tea (Supreme Decree No. 53-81-EF); the measure reduced the average import duty on the affected items from 43 per cent to 27 per cent. February 23. Effective March 1, 1981 the percent- ages of 90-day nonnegotiable exchange certificates issued against the surrendered proceeds from certain specified trad i t ional exports were lowered as follows: (a) for minerals and hydrocarbons, from 30 per cent to 20 per cent; (b) for fish meal and fish oil, from 20 per cent to 10 per cent; and (c) for the balance of up to 90 per cent of surrender value (i.e., 70 per cent and 80 per cent, respectively) 10-day negotiable exchange certificates would be issued (Exchange Reso- lution No. 3 /81; see also Exchange Resolutions Nos. 5/81, 6/81, and 8 /81 ). February 28. In conjunction with an announcement that the tax on most traditional exports would be phased out by 1983, the tax rate for 1981 was lowered f rom 17.5 per cent to 10 per cent of f.o.b. sales abroad, plus 5 per cent as an advance on corporate income for companies paying the tax on a monthly basis or 6 per cent for those mak ing such monthly payments. The tax was scheduled to be reduced to 5 per cent in 1982 (w i th the same advance payment provisions for the corporate income t a x ). Under Decree-Law No. 33 of 350 February 28, 1981 (see also Supreme Decree No. 58-81- EF of March 24, 1981), the 17.5 per cent export tax was eliminated for minerals, metals, and petroleum and its derivatives and replaced by a sales tax at the follow- ing declining schedule of rates: for large companies from 12 per cent in the second qua r ter of 1981 to 11 per cent in the fou r th quar ter of the year, and for medium-sized companies from 7 per cent to 5 per cent during the same period ( the latter was modified on June 15, 1981 by Decree-Law No. 154, be low). February 28. The tax free investment allowance for m in ing companies was lowered f rom 45 per cent to 40 per cent of net profits. In addition, the reinvestment ceiling of S/. 1.5 billion was eliminated, and specified in f ra s t ruc tu re projects became eligible for tax free reinvestment (Decree-Law No. 34 ). March 1. Decree-Law No. 35 eliminated MINPECO'S monopoly over exports of mining products, except for zinc to be marketed un t il the end of 1982. Only metal m in ing companies wholly owned by the Government were required to market their output through MINPECO. March 14. Imports of construction equipment for the Jequetepeque-Zana construction project were exoner- ated f rom import duties and taxes (Decree-Law No. 47). March 25. On the basis of Law No. 23231 of December 27, 1980 a regulation came into effect authorizing foreign enterprises to invest in secondary oil recovery with PETROPERU and entitling them to a tax rebate on their investments. March 27. Import ta r i f fs were reduced on products in 759 ta r i ff categories, compr is ing capital goods and raw ma ter ia ls for indus try (Supreme Decree No. 74-81-EF); the measure lowered the average import du ty on the i tems affected f rom 29 per cent to 21 per cent. March 27. CERTEX subsidies at the basic rates were extended to fish, sugar, cocoa, cocoa butter, and manu- fac tu red products of zinc, gypsum, stone, and cement (Supreme Decree No. 75-81-EF); some of these and a few other products also became eligible for the add i t ional CERTEX of 10 per cent. (CERTEX benefits were also granted to a few more items on July 31, 1981 by Supreme Decree No. 164-81-EFC.) March 27. Six ta r i ff items, including tires and tubes for tractors, agr icu l tural equipment, and intermediate goods for the production of insulating and adhesive tapes, were removed f rom the list of restricted imports (Supreme Decree No. 73-81-EF); as a result, the list of restricted imports contained 131 items, including seven prohibited ones. March 27. A total of 21 new, freely importable, eight-digit items were added to the customs ta r i f f, at an average import duty of 26 per cent, together w i th 9 other items subject to prior licensing at an aver- age import du ty of 18 per cent (Supreme Decree No. 73-81-EF). April 1. Exporters were no longer required to use ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Peruvian means of transpor ta t ion in order to qua l i fy for CERTEX benefits (Decree-Law No. 66; see also Decree- Law No. 26 ). April 2. The import du ty on beef and lamb was reduced to zero un t il December 31, 1981 (Supreme Decree No. 76-81-EF). April 3. Peru prepaid the ref inanc ing obtained from fore ign commercial banks on 1980 ma tur i t ies. April 3. Import t a r i f fs were reduced on 129 items of the Peruv ian customs t a r i f f, consisting of capital goods and raw ma te r ia ls for agr icu l ture and livestock (Supreme Resolution No. 26-81-EF); the measure reduced the average import du ty on the items affec ted f rom 25 per cent to 9 per cent. April 16. Law No. 23243 annulled the requirement that company board members be Peruv ian residents. April 25. The sugar import quota for 1981 was raised f rom 100,000 tons to 150,000 tons. April 26. The CONITE was restructured (Decree- Law No. 7 1 ). May 5. As an incentive to the domestic airline indus t ry, Decree -Law No. 75, inter alia, exempted impor ts of a i rc ra ft and related parts from import duties, as well as the sales and services tax, and extended government guaran tees to loans to f inance a i rc ra ft purchases. May 15. Import ta r i f fs were reduced on 132 items of the Pe ruv ian customs ta r i ff f rom an average rate of 42 per cent to 26 per cent (Supreme Decree No. 102B-81-EF). In add i t ion, three new, freely import- able items were added to the customs t a r i ff and three new items were made subject to prior licensing. June 11. The percentage of 90-day nonnegotiable certificates issued against the surrender of exchange proceeds f rom exports of m inera ls and hydrocarbons was lowered to 10 per cent, and the percentage of 10-day negotiable exchange cer t if ica tes was raised to 80 per cent. In add i t ion, the 90-day negotiable exchange certificates ceased to be issued against the surrender of export proceeds f rom fish meal and fish oil. (Exchange Resolution No. 6 / 8 1 ). June 11. The 25 per cent deposit requirement in local cu r rency aga inst certain external borrowing or loan renewals by the private sector was abolished (Exchange Resolution No. 7 / 8 1 ). June 11. Effec t ive June 15, 1981 the ma rg inal reserve requ irement on financial ins t i tu t ions' foreign currency deposit l iab i l i t ies was reduced f rom 100 per cent to 90 per cent; the interest rate on reserve deposits was also reduced f rom LIBOR to LIBOR m inus 1 per cent (C ircu lar No. 21-81-EFC/90). June 15. A new tax regime for exports of fish products came in to effect (Decree-Law No. 167). June 15. Decree-Law No. 154 was introduced, modi- fy ing the tax provisions of Decree-Law No. 33 of February 1981 as fo l lows: for medium-sized m in ing companies, one half of the applicable tax will be levied when in terna t ional prices are w i th in a specified range PERU and no such tax will be levied when in terna t ional prices are below such a range. June 15. Decree-Law No. 195 simplified the adminis- tra t ive procedures governing foreign trade transactions. June 26. Import t a r i f fs were reduced on 25 items of the Peruvian customs tar iff (Supreme Decree No. 134- 81-EF), lowering the average import du ty on the items concerned f rom 24 per cent to 16 per cent. In addition, 3 new, freely importable items and 3 other items sub- ject to pr ior l icens ing were added to the customs t a r i f f. June 30. The prior licensing requ irement expired on 8 t a r i ff items, compr is ing paper products and corru- gated cardboard boxes; as a result, the list of restricted imports was reduced to 138 items, in c lud ing 7 pro- h ib i ted ones. August 1. A number of non t r ad i t ion al exports became eligible for CERTEX bene f i ts under "decentrali- zation" of exports (Supreme Decree No. 164-81-EFC). August 3. Import t a r i f fs were reduced on 50 items of the Peruv ian customs ta r i ff f rom an unweighted average of 37 per cent to 31 per cent (Supreme Decree No. 166-81-EF). August 7. Effective August 10, 1981, 90-day non- negotiable exchange certificates were no longer issued against the su r render of exchange proceeds f rom the export of m ine ra ls and hydrocarbons (Exchange Reso- lu t ion No. 8 / 8 1 ). August 18. Tubes for ag r icu l tu ral i r r iga t ion and cer- t a in valves were subjected to prior l icens ing (Supreme Decree No. 176-81-EFC). September 9. The t a r i f fs on the impo rt of assembled and nonassembled motor vehicles and tractors were lowered (Supreme Decree No. 200-81-EF). October 7. Import t a r i f fs were reduced on 21 items of the Peruv ian customs t a r i ff (Supreme Decree No. 214A-81-EFC), and the list of equ ipment i tems for aeronau t ical use that were exempt f r om import duties under Dec ree -Law No. 75 was published (Supreme Decree No. 214B-81-EFC). October 23. Subject to approval by CONITE, authori- zation was gran ted for fore ign firms to remit over 20 per cent of their prof i ts and d iv idends for investments that generated employment, were in underdeveloped areas, or helped to d ive rs i fy exports. October 30. Import t a r i f fs were reduced on six items of the Peruvian customs ta r i ff (Supreme Decree No. 246-81-EFC). November 1. Decree-Law No. 190 of June 19, 1981 modified import taxa t ion as follows: (a) w i th specified exemp t ions and with effect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1982, a u n i f o rm value-added tax of 16 per cent of the c.i.f. value of impor ts (in add i t ion to the import du ty) replaced the sales and services tax that had heretofore been levied at var ious rates; and (b) a selective consump t ion tax was levied on luxu ry items at rates of 10 per cent, 20 per cent, 25 per cent, 30 per cent, and 40 per cent of the c . i . f. va lue of impor ts, also in add i t ion to the import duty. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine Peso. The authorities of the Philippines do not ma in ta in mar- gins in respect of exchange transac t ions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange market. However, the au thor i- ties intervene when necessary in order to ma in ta in orderly conditions in the exchange market and other policy objectives in the medium term. The Bankers' Association establishes daily a "guiding rate"; on December 31, 1981 this rate was P 8.20 per US$1. The buy ing and selling rates of the Central Bank of the Philippines for the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency and the sole currency quoted, on the same date were P8 .159 and P 8.2615, respectively, per US$1. In spot transactions of less than US$100,000 with their custom- ers, commercial banks1 are required by the Association to observe certain margins. The m in imum and maxi- mum spot buy ing rates are 0.50 per cent and 1 per cent, respectively, below the guiding rate. The m in imum and max imum spot selling rates are 0.75 per cent and 1.25 per cent, respectively, above the guiding rate. For trans- actions in excess of US$100,000, the marg ins are deter- mined competitively. The Central Bank is not governed by the Association's trading rules in making its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange. In terbank t rad ing takes place at the Foreign Exchange T rad ing Center (FOREX ), where the Central Bank f rom time to time acts as a buyer or as a supplier. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Monetary Board. Certain new foreign direct or port- folio investments in the Philippines require the prior approval of the Board of Investments (BO I ). Prescription of Currency2 There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but all exchange proceeds f rom exports and invisibles must be obtained in prescribed currencies.3 Most paymen ts and transfers to South Afr ica are prohibited. 1 On March 5, 1982 the t h r i ft banks and the rural banks were authorized by the Cen tral Bank to deal in fo re ign exchange; subject to cer ta in conditions, they may purchase fore ign currencies f rom tourists and other specified nonresidents, for conversion into pesos. 2 On Janua ry 21, 1982 the Central Bank advised authorized agent banks and fore ign exchange dealers to accept notes denominated in Saudi Arabian riyals, K uw a i ti d ina r s, and B ah r a in d ina rs for conver- sion into pesos. 3 Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 352 Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denom ina ted in pesos may be opened in the names of nonresidents, whe ther ind iv idual or corporate, w i thout the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonres ident accounts may be credited only with the proceeds f rom inward rem i t tances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign cu r renc ies and w i th peso income f rom, or peso proceeds of, conversion of proper- ties (real or pe rsona l) located in the Ph i l ipp ines and be long ing to nonresidents. Nonres ident accounts may be f ree ly debited for peso w i thd rawa ls. W i thdrawa ls f rom non res ident accoun ts for t r a n s f er abroad are sub- ject to i n d i v i d u al app l i c a t ion w i th s u p p o r t i ng evidence, and to established l im i ts whe re app l icab le, such as in the case of em ig ran t s. Subject to au tho r iza t ion, both residents and nonresi- dents may ma in ta in fore ign cu r rency accounts with au tho r ized agent banks in the Ph i l ipp ines (see section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles, be low ). Imports and Import Payments Impor ts f rom South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Imports of cer ta in commodities are proh ib i ted on g rounds of hea l th, n a t i o n al we lfare, and security. Imports of cer- t a in commodities require prior approval by specified government agencies or comm i t tees, ma in ly for protec- t ive purposes. Sales of fore ign exchange for impor ts of specified commodities are subject to prior approval of the Cen tral Bank; such approval is gran ted on a case- by-case basis for commodities classified under two cate- gories of consumer goods —unclassified (UC) and non- essential (N EC ). Paymen ts for impor ts of certain other commodities (whea t, raw cotton, and leaf tobacco) are perm i t ted only if they are financed through certain o f f ic ial credit arrangemen ts. Any impo r ta t ion of plant, mach ine ry, equ ipmen t, and spare par ts under deferred paymen ts a r rangemen ts w i th m a t u r i ty periods longer t h an 360 days is sub ject to pr ior app roval by the Cen- t ral Bank. If payment terms are cash or w i th in 360 days, prior approval by the Central Bank is necessary for impo r ta t ion by any single impor ter of nonagricul- t u r al mach ine ry and equipment w i th an aggregate value in excess of US$50,000 w i th in a calendar mon th, with the exception of certified export-oriented firms and other impor ters who have obtained prescribed certification f rom the BOI. Trade w i th any of the s ta te t r a d i ng coun t r ies, exclud- ing Yugoslavia, must be effected th rough the Ph i l ipp ine I n t e r n a t i o n al Trad ing Corporation. As a me thod of paymen t, commodities may be impo r ted aga inst le t te rs of credit, on a document against acceptance (D /A) basis, or und er open account (O /A) a r rangemen ts. The use of the D/A and O/A procedures is conf ined ma in ly to firms w i th a history of impo r t ing under these arrangements prior to February 21, 1970; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to producer firms established a f ter that da te and expressly authorized by the Monetary Board to import under these arrangemen ts; to producer firms that are export oriented, are registered with the BOI and the Export Processing Zone Au thor i ty, or are f ranch i sed u t i l i ty concerns; and to such others as may be approved by the Central Bank. The use of these procedures by producer firms normally is restricted to commodities in the Essential Producer Goods category. Unless arrange- ments are made for such terms o f, credit, impor ts in excess of US$1,000 (US$500 for publications) must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the day of shipment and are subject to the release cer t if ica te requirement. Imports financed by the importer's own foreign exchange or not invo lv ing payments from the Philippines are allowed, subject to prescribed conditions, and are exempt f rom the requ i rement of open ing letters of credit. At the request of an au thor ized agent bank or other financial ins t i tu t ion, a firm may be "watch listed" by the Central Bank for arrears on its loan repayment com- mitments. A firm thus "watch listed" may not open import le t ters of credit w i thout the approval of the Cen tral Bank, which will allow the opening of letters of credit only af ter a schedule for the repayment of over- due obligations has been agreed upon. Certain autho- rized agent banks require 100 per cent deposit aga inst the opening of letters of credit for such firms, compared with 25 per cent or 50 per cent in normal cases. There are separate regu la t ions for impor ts in to border regions by barter traders. Payments for Invisibles V ir tua l ly all payments to South Afr ica are prohibited. In pr inc ip le, all other paymen ts are perm i t ted, w i thout prior approval of the Central Bank, provided that amounts of more than US$100 are substantiated by documentary evidence. However, there are certain limits established by the Central Bank for purchases of fore ign exchange for travel abroad by residents, remittances for educational expenses, ma in tenance and expenses of dependents of residents while abroad, remittances of profits, dividends, and interest, royalties, and for film and other rentals (see below). Foreign exchange allow- ance for business travel abroad depends upon the fo r- eign exchange earn ing of the ind iv idual business, the rank of the trave ler, and the destination. For registered exporters with fore ign exchange earnings in excess of US$250,000 a year, the allowance is US$150 a day p lus US$500 for representation expenses in respect of travel to A f r ica, Nor th America, South America, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Europe, Japan, and the Middle East, and US$120 a day plus US$300 for representation expenses for travel to other countries. Senior officials of firms ea rn ing fore ign exchange of less than US$250,000 a year are entitled to US$100 a day for travel to the enumera ted areas and US$70 a day to other areas; the daily allowances for other employees of such firms are PHILIPPINES US$70 and US$50, respectively. Senior officials of firms not ea rn ing fore ign exchange are entitled to US$70 a day for travel to the enumerated areas and US$50 a day to all other areas; the daily allowances for other employees of such firms are US$50 and US$35, respec- tively. All these daily allowances may be purchased for up to 20 days a trip; applications for travel abroad for a fifth or subsequent time within one calendar year are subject to ca re ful review by the agent banks to prevent abuse. For nonbusiness travel to A f r ica, Nor th America, South America, Australia, Europe, Japan, the Middle East, and New Zealand the allocation for each adu lt resident is limited to US$1,000 a year and to US$600 a year for such travel to all other countries. Travelers under 12 years of age are eligible for ha lf of the s tanda rd allowance. The following limits apply to exchange for educa- t ional expenses abroad for s tuden ts und e r t ak ing degree courses at du ly accredited colleges or universities: for studies in the United States, US$250 a mon th for l iv ing and other out-of-school expenses, plus the cost of tu i- t ion, books, labora tory fees, and other school charges; for studies in Aus t ra l ia, Europe, Japan, and New Zea- l and, PS$150 a mon th. Any scholarship allowances are deduc ted f rom these amounts. The following limits apply for remittances to depen- den ts of res iden ts: US$250 a month for each dependent l iv ing in the Un i ted States; US$200 a month for each dependent living in Aus tra l ia, Europe, Japan, or New Zea land; and US$100 a mon th for each dependent l iv ing in other areas. The maintenance allowances for depen- dents are allowed only for close relatives under condi- tions prescribed by the Central Bank. Remittances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) acc ru ing to nonres iden ts out of net profits realized since J anu a ry 1, 1973 are permitted in fu l l, provided that rem i t tances are not financed from domestic credit. Profits earned and dividends declared before Janua ry 1, 1973 (which had been unrem i t tab le for some t ime) may be remitted provided that such remittances are not financed by domestic borrowings. Remittances of royal- ties or rentals on patents, trademarks, and copyrights are f ree ly permitted (net of taxes) for contracts regis- tered with the Central Bank, provided that the royalties do not exceed 5 per cent of the wholesale price of the commod i ty that is manu fac tu red locally under the roya l ty contract (2 per cent in the case of marke t ing service con trac ts), and that contracts do not exceed five-year terms and do not include restrictions on the export of the product. Rem i t tances of the producer's share of earnings made on motion-picture films and ren ta ls on television films are freely perm i t ted, provided generally that the shares or rentals do not exceed 60 per cent of net proceeds from films. Foreign exchange within the above limits may be pu r- chased f rom authorized agent banks, without prior approval of the Central Bank, for current payments for invisibles administratively withheld prior to Novem- 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES her 26, 1969. Applications for certain invisibles for which no basic allowance has been set are considered on their merits by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export from the Philip- pines foreign currency or any other foreign exchange except as authorized by the Central Bank. Residents may take out, as part of their travel allowance, up to US$100 in foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had previously brought in and declared, less any amounts converted into pesos. Resident and nonresident travelers require prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than P 500 in domestic notes and coin or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. Citizens of the Philippines, when traveling abroad, must pay a travel tax of P 1,350 for first-class ship or airplane tickets or P 810 for any other ticket. Exempt are, among others, foreign diplo- matic staff and Philippine nationals making their first pilgrimage to Mecca. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and economic development are also prohibited. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted, but are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks issue the necessary export permits upon registration of the exporter's report of foreign sales (except export permits for gold, which are issued by the Central Bank ); reports of foreign sales of copra, coconut oil, and sugar- based commodities, however, are approved for registra- tion only by the Central Bank. Registration of sales of sugar-based commodities requires prior clearance by the Department of Trade. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a d ra ft drawn in one of the prescribed currencies (see footnote 3) and unless collection of the proceeds will be undertaken by an authorized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or mail transfer may be allowed. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an autho- rized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. No ship- ment of exports will be allowed by the customs unless a certificate is issued by a bank stating that payment has been received or arranged. Export proceeds must be received in a prescribed currency w i th in 60 days from the date of shipment (or w i th in such period as may be established in special cases) and surrendered to the agent bank within 3 business days of receipt. The undrawn balances of exports involving initial drawings of less than 100 per cent of the f.o.b. invoice value must be collected and repatriated within 150 days from the date of shipment for exports to Europe, Africa, and Latin 354 America, and 120 days f rom da te of shipment for exports to other countries. An irrevocable letter of credit is required for all exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut oil, and for all exports to Guam, Hong Kong, Indonesia, and Japan. Exports of perishable commodi- ties to Hong Kong require prepayment. Under an "export deduction" scheme, export-oriented industries are allowed, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, to use a part of their export proceeds for the repayment of the loans obtained for imports of machinery, raw materials, and other requirements. An export tax is levied on the f.o.b. value of certain ma jor exports. The rate is 6 per cent for centrifugal sugar; 4 per cent for gold, silver, iron ore and con- centrates, chromite ore and concentrates, unmanu fac- tured abaca, molasses, canned pineapples, bunker fuel oil, cement clinker, portland cement, petroleum pitch and residues, and lumber and veneer; and 2 per cent for bananas. However, the export taxes on mineral products and cement are suspended. Certain traditional export commodities are subject to premium export duties; those on m ineral products and cement are suspended. The Philippine Sugar Commission has a monopoly over the export of sugar. Export trade with state trad- ing countries, excluding Yugoslavia, is handled through the Ph i l ipp ine In te rna t ional T rad ing Corporation. There are separate regulations for exports f rom border regions by barter traders. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold within three business days to an authorized agent bank. Philippine construction companies registered w i th the Philippine Overseas Construction Board and hav ing overseas proj- ects may retain abroad, on a noncumulative basis, specified portions of their net foreign exchange receipts to meet their operational foreign exchange requirements for the succeeding calendar quarter. Philippine na- tionals employed abroad are perm i t ted to open U.S. dollar deposit accounts with authorized agent banks, in which they may re ta in any U.S. dollars they remit to the Philippines. To be eligible for credit to such accounts, earnings must be t rans fe r red through Philip- pine diplomatic establishments. Under a foreign cur- rency deposit scheme, inward remittances of foreign currencies by residents or nonresidents for deposit in numbered foreign currency accounts are exempt from surrender requirements, provided that the remittances represent neither current earnings or income of resi- dents nor payments by nonresidents pursuant to con- tractual obligations. Balances in such accounts are freely transferab le abroad. Philippine nationals work- ing abroad are required to repatriate specified mini- mum shares of their foreign earnings, rang ing f rom 30 per cent to 70 per cent. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to P 500 in domestic notes and coin and checks, money orders, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution other bills of exchange d rawn in pesos, of wh ich not more than P 50 may consist of Philippine coin. Peso- denominated gold coins issued by the Central Bank of the Philippines are exempt f rom these requirements. Capital V ir tua l ly all payments and transfers to South Afr ica are prohibited. All inward and ou tward capital move- ments, with the exception of certain bank ing operations and certain transac t ions related to financing of inter- national trade (see be low ), are subject to the prior and specific approval of the Central Bank. When applica- tions for new inwa rd fore ign inves tmen ts (in k ind or in ca sh ), as well as new fo re ign borrowings are reviewed, preference is given to projects approved by the BOI, to export-oriented indus tr ies, and to other (nonexport- or ien ted) indus tr ies not u t i l iz ing domestic credit re- sources. The law guaran tees fu ll repa tr ia t ion of cash inves tmen ts made a f t er March 15, 1973 in export- oriented industries that have been certified by the Central Bank, in enterprises registered w i th the BOI, and in securities cer t if ied by the Central Bank and traded on the Man i la and Maka ti Stock Exchanges. As a mini- mum, foreign investors must hold securities for at least 90 days before the proceeds become eligible for repa tr ia t ion. Foreign companies are eligible to borrow pesos f rom domestic sources, provided they have a debt-equity ratio of 60:40 in h igh-pr ior i ty sectors, 55:45 in med ium- priority sectors, and 50:50 in low-priority sectors. Foreign direct cash investments made a f ter March 15, 1973 and registered w i th the Cen tral Bank are freely repatriable, except for investments in domestic com- mercial banks, which, if made a f ter March 31, 1973, are freely repatriable and if made before that date are repatriable according to the schedule in (4) below. There are certain restrictions on sales of fo re ign exchange for the repa t r ia t ion of foreign direct cash investments made before March 16, 1973 and noncash investments made a f ter March 15, 1973, depending on the category of industry where the investment is made, as follows: ( 1) investments in export-oriented industries certified by the Cen tral Bank are repatriable in fu l l, but no annual installment may exceed the applicant's share in the net foreign exchange earn ings of the firm in the preceding year; (2) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI, produc ing import substitutes or exports, are repatriable in three equal annual ins ta l lmen ts starting one year a f ter the l iqu ida t ion of the investment, but no annual installment may exceed the total net foreign exchange earn ings in the preceding year; (3) invest- ments in enterprises registered w i th the BOI (not included in (2) above and not u t i l iz ing domestic credit resources) are repatriable in four equal annual install- ments s tar t ing one year a f ter the l iqu ida t ion of the investment; and (4) for investments in the rema in ing industries, repa tr ia t ion is allowed according to the following schedule: for amounts of US$0.25 million PHILIPPINES or less, five equal annual ins ta l lmen ts a f t er l iqu ida t ion; for amoun ts of US$0.25-0.5 m i l l ion, seven equal annual ins ta l lmen ts a f ter l iqu ida t ion; and for amoun ts of over US$0.5 m i l l ion, nine equal annual installments af ter l iqu ida t ion. Approval and registration by the Central Bank are required for the assigned cap i tal of branches of fore ign banks to be eligible for p ro f it rem i t tances and cap i tal repa tr ia t ion. Du r ing the period between the date of the investment and repa t r ia t ion, l iqu ida t ion proceeds may be reinvested, subject to approval by the Central B ank, in fo re ign currency deposits, in government securities, or in shares of stock in export-oriented indu s t r ies registered w i th the BOI or cer t if ied by the Cen tral Bank. W i thout prior Cen tral B ank app rova l, commerc ial banks may not receive credit f rom abroad other than c red it a r is ing f rom no rmal in t e rn a t ion al t r ade trans- actions. They may, however, accept deposits in n ine scheduled cu r renc ies4 f rom nonresidents of foreign n a t ion a l i ty; such deposits are f ree ly repa t r iab le at the p reva i l ing exchange rate and are exempt f rom the 35 per cent w i t h h o l d i ng tax. Twen ty-f ive domestic commercial banks and four local branches of fore ign banks are licensed to operate in an expanded fore ign currency deposit scheme; these fore ign currency deposit un it banks (FCDUs) are empowered to borrow funds from in te rna t ional money ma rke ts for domestic on-lending. Nonbank residents may ob ta in suppliers' credits f rom abroad provided that repayment terms are within the l im i ts prescribed by the Cen t ral Bank. Maturities of long- term loans or repayment terms should be as fo l low s: ( 1) US$250,000 or less, three years; (2) over US$250,000 up to US$500,000, five years; (3) over US$500,000 up to US$3 m i l l ion, seven years; and (4) over US$3 m i l l ion, eight to ten years. Firms whose p roduc ts are clearly destined for export, as well as firms ea rn ing fore ign exchange and du ly certified or registered in p r io r i ty areas w i th app rop r ia te government agencies, may secure credits in excess of US$3 million w i th a m i n im um repayment period of seven to eight years. Interest rates may not be more than 1.5 per cent above the pr ime rate of the lend ing coun t ry. Applica- t ions are not approved if the proposed project expands capac i ty in an indu s t ry deemed to be overcrowded or for firms that are in arrears w i th government financial ins t i tu t ions. Sales of fore ign exchange for amortization of loans are permitted in accordance with the terms of loan contracts approved by the Central Bank. The same applies for loan con trac ts registered with the Central Bank prior to November 26, 1969. For those not fa l l ing under these two categories, pr ior approval by the Central Bank is required for sales of foreign exchange for repayment of loans. Em igran ts may t rans fer up to US$5,000, subject to verification by the Central Bank. The rema in ing liquid 4 Canad ian dollars, deu tsche m a r k, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lders, pounds s te r l ing, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES assets may be withdrawn in five years beginning one year from emigration. Outward investment by resident persons, firms, or corporations requires prior approval of the Central Bank through the Management of External Debt and Investment Accounts Department. Except as otherwise specifically authorized, resident persons, firms, or corporations may not enter into any contract or trans- action which may involve settlement in foreign exchange, or involving any assets belonging to them expressed in foreign currencies or payable or deliverable abroad. This restriction also applies to contracts or transactions involving assets within the Philippines belonging to a nonresident person, firm, or corporation, and to their export or import. Detailed regulations are in force concerning transactions in securities between residents and nonresidents. Twenty-five foreign banks have been authorized to operate offshore banking units in the Philippines. These units may engage in a wide range of foreign currency transactions with nonresidents and with other offshore units.5 All investors in enterprises registered with the BOI are guaranteed the right to repatriate their investments and to remit earnings thereon and sums needed to meet payments of principal and interest of foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom from expropriation and requisition. There are different arrangements for "pioneer investments" and "preferred investments"; the former are granted certain incentives over and above those given to preferred investments. Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by foreigners are permitted to operate only in "pioneer areas of investment," and at least 60 per cent of the outstanding voting capital stock of registered enterprises in "preferred areas of investment" must be owned by Philippine nationals. Under the Foreign Investment Law of 1968, new enterprises where investment by non-Filipinos exceeds 30 per cent and which are not covered by the Investment Incentives Act of 1967 must obtain prior authority from the BOI in order to engage in any economic activity in the Philippines. If purchases of shares of common stock by foreign nationals would reduce Philippine ownership in a firm to less than 70 per cent permission from the BOI must first be obtained. Gold Producers of gold may be eligible for assistance under the Gold Industry Assistance Act, irrespective of whether this gold is a by-product or the principal or only product of their operations. The Central Bank purchases the entire output of the 5 Beginning from March 11, 1982 offshore banking units may open and maintain deposit accounts in pesos with domestic agent banks exclusively, to meet administrative and other operating expenses and to pay to designated local beneficiaries of nonresident Filipinos the equivalent of foreign exchange remittances channeled through the offshore banking units' correspondent banks abroad. 356 14 domestic pr imary gold producers. The producers are paid in Philippine pesos based on the latest London fixing price and the prevailing Philippine peso-U.S. dol- lar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of official international reserves. Small gold panners are exempt f rom the scheme. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized gold dealers, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to pur- chase gold abroad in any form other than jewelry. Various denominations of gold coins have been issued by the Central Bank of the Philippines as follows: a 1-Peso Paul VI coin ( 1 9 7 0 ), a 1,000-Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1975 ), a 1,500-Piso IMF-IBRD coin (1976 ), the 1,500-Piso Ang Bagong L ipunan coins (1977 and 1978), a 5,000-Piso Ang Bangong Lipunan coin (1977 ), a 2,500-Piso Douglas MacA r thur cen- tenary coin (1980 ), and a 1,500-Piso Pope John Paul II coin (1981 ). Transactions in legal tender gold coins are governed by the provisions of Central Bank Circular No. 570, dated June 9, 1977. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry requ i re licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1981 March 9. Imports of c i t izens band rad io receivers were prohibited for reasons of na t ional security. April 14. Foreign exchange allowances for travel abroad were increased and related regulations modified as follows: (a) for nonbusiness travel, the allowance was raised from US$500 to US$1,000 a year for travel to Africa, North America, South America, Canada, New Zealand, Aus tra l ia, Europe, the Middle East, or Japan, and from US$200 to US$600 for all other countries; (b) travelers under 12 years of age were made eligible for one half of the s tandard allowance; (c) for business travel, the higher allowance introduced on September 8, 1980 for export-oriented firms re- mained in force; ( d) the exchange allowances for senior officials of firms earn ing foreign exchange of less than US$250,000 a year were fixed at US$100 a day for travel to the enumerated areas and US$70 a day to all other areas, and for other employees of such firms at US$70 and US$50, respectively; (e) the allowances for senior officials of firms not earning foreign exchange were fixed at US$70 a day for travel to the enumerated areas and US$50 a day for all other areas, and those for other employees of such firms at US$50 and US$35, respectively; (f) the daily allowances may be purchased for up to 20 days a trip; and (g) applications for travel abroad for a fifth or subsequent time w i th in one cal- endar year were made subject to careful review by the agent bank, to prevent abuse (MAAB No. 7 ). June 26. All imports valued at more than US$1,000, with the exception of those made under open accounts of documents against acceptance arrangements and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution those effected by prequalified producers, were required to be covered by letters of credit and to be subject to the release certificate requirement. (Certain imports valued at less than US$1,000 were exempted from the release certificate requirement when imported free of cost to the importer —Circular No. 808.) November 10. The authentication requirement for commercial invoices was abolished, and an import processing fee of P 250 was imposed on all imports covered by a Formal Entry with an invoice value of P 5,000 or more. December 15. A new exchange control regulation was introduced, prohibiting the export or attempt to export foreign exchange in any form from the Philip- pines, whether directly, through other persons, by mail, or through in terna t ional carriers, unless specifically authorized by the Central Bank or allowed under exist- ing international agreements. PHILIPPINES 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese Escudo, the exchange rate of which is adjusted at relatively short intervals in relation to a basket of currencies, weighted according to their importance in Portugal's in te rna t ional merchandise trade. Periodically the Bank of Portugal announces depreciation objectives for the effective exchange rate of the escudo: the monthly rate of depreciation, which was initially set in May 1978 at 1.25 per cent but was lowered progressively to 0.50 per cent by June 1980 ( fo l low ing a 6 per cent apprecia- tion in effective terms in February 1980), was raised to 0.75 per cent in December 1981. On December 31, 1981 the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Esc 65.076 and Esc 65.422, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies1 are quoted by the Bank of Portugal on the basis of U.S. dollar rates in exchange marke ts abroad. Neither the Bank of Portugal nor the commercial banks charge buying and selling commissions, but there is a tax of 0.3 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar at a parity rate of P 1.03875 = HK$1. Authorized banks may deal in fore ign exchange with the Bank of Portugal. They are also normally allowed to deal in foreign exchange with banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange market. They are not allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves or to enter into arbitrage operations in foreign markets. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in convertible currencies for their own account. Purchases and sales of unquoted currencies can be made only through an authorized bank acting on a commission basis. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in foreign currencies from residents or non- residents and to obtain short-term credits abroad. The banks may use their foreign exchange holdings for all authorized purposes, but the Ministry of Finance may set limits on the use of these resources and, in certain circumstances, may require that foreign exchange assets be sold to the Bank of Portugal. The net foreign asset positions of the authorized banks and their gross foreign exchange holdings are subject to ceilings. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, with the 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 358 assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is formu la ted and implemented by the Ministry of Industry, Energy, and Export; almost all fore ign trade transac t ions are subject to prior registration with the M in is try. The Director- General of Foreign Commerce in this M in is t ry is responsible for adm in is te r ing trade controls. Import and export bu l le t ins are issued by a depa r tment within the Directorate-General of Foreign Commerce or by other authorized executive departments. State agencies unde r tak ing international trade transac t ions are required to use Portuguese vessels. Prescription of Currency Transactions w i th Turkey are settled on a mon th ly basis through a clearing account ma in ta ined in U.S. dollars. Export transac t ions w i th o ther countries may be settled in the quoted currencies (see footnote 1) or in U.S. dollars. (Canad ian dollars, Finnish markkaa, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, South A f r ican rand, and Spanish pesetas may only be used in transactions with the countries issuing the currency .) Payments to non- residents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account, the opening of which is subject to prior approval by the Bank of Portugal. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Escudos are divided into ( 1) Time Foreign Accounts in Escudos, for which the opening, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance au thor iza t ion of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos, which may be opened, debited, and credited w i thout prior authori- zation of the Bank of Portugal for paymen ts for trans- actions authorized in escudos concerning imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between Portu- gal and foreign countries and for t rans fe rs between such accounts. For all other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of overdraf ts on the accounts described above requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Foreign Accounts in Escudos in the names of persons resident or domiciled in Turkey, with which Portugal has a special clearing arrangement, are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. Special accounts in escudos have been established to which must be credited those Portuguese banknotes that have been presented by foreign correspondents and are in excess of the amoun ts that may be credited to Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos. These accounts may be debited only for payments in escudos ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to residents, subject to the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Deposit accounts in escudos may be opened by Portuguese emigrants. Such accounts may be in the form of current accounts, accounts requiring advance notice of w i thdrawa l, or time accounts. Without prior authorization from the Bank of Portugal, deposit accounts may be credited only with remittances from abroad received through the bank ing system or in the form of an international postal order, the equivalent in escudos of external means of payment sold to credit institutions by emigrants, and interest due on such deposits. Deposit accounts may be debited without restrictions. Nonresidents may open time foreign accounts in eight foreign currencies. Such accounts may be cred- ited with remittances from abroad and with the related interest due and may be debited without restrictions. However, a nonresident wishing to use the funds on these accounts in Portugal is subject to the exchange regulations currently in force. There are also provisions for resident accounts in foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited or are allowed only under specific conditions, mainly for reasons of health, public order, and the prevention of commercial f raud. Any physical or jur id ical en t i ty may be an importer; importers must have an import entitlement and must pay income taxes regularly. Prior registration (in the form of a "bulletin") is required for all imports valued at over Esc 15,000. Almost all imports from all sources are effected on the basis of "bulletins." For imports free of quantita- tive restriction, the bulletin enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange. For imports subject to restriction, the bulletin is equivalent to an import license. The validity of the bulletin is 3 months for customs clearance purposes, and 12 months from the date of customs clearance for settlement purposes; in special cases, longer va l id i ty periods may be granted. Personal baggage and imports of merchandise, the value of which does not exceed Esc 15,000, do not require a bulletin, except when fo rm ing part of an order with a total value exceeding Esc 15,000 and provided they are not expressly excluded f rom this exemption. Imports of books up to Esc 20,000 and of newspapers up to Esc 40,000 are also exempt f rom the bulletins. Pay- ments beyond one year af ter customs clearance require the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Imports of certain items, such as unassembled auto- mobiles, household appliances, and fru i ts, are subject temporarily to quota limitations in va lue terms. Goods not on the negative list may be imported freely from most countries that are members of the GATT. The negative list includes certain foods tuffs and other agri- cultural products, certain natural or manufactured raw PORTUGAL materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, including motor vehicles; the items on the list are subject to quantitative restrictions for protective reasons or under special regimes. A some- what more extensive negative list applies to Japan. The GATT liberalization does not apply to Ghana and Nigeria; imports from these GATT members of goods that would be liberalized if imported from other GATT countries are subject to individual authorization, which is granted on the merits of the case. Nonliberalized imports from countries that are GATT members are admitted under individual authorization. All imports from countries that are not members of the GATT are based on individual authorizations; imports from some Eastern European countries are generally licensed in accordance with bilateral t rad ing arrangements. There are a few bilateral quotas for specified agri- cultural imports f rom certain EFTA countries. Imports of nonliberalized indus tr ial products, except for certain protected steel products and automobiles, are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction when originating in EFTA or EC countries. Special legislation provides that auto- mobiles must be assembled in Portugal, and the assembly is subject to the use of certain m in imum percentages of domestic components. However, imports of passenger automobiles of non-EFTA and non-EC origin are allowed up to 15 units a producer a year for those makes not assembled in Portugal and, for other makes, up to 2 per cent of the number of pas- senger automobiles of the same make that were assem- bled in Portugal in the preceding year. Imports of some makes of EFTA and EC origin were allowed up to 350 un i ts for each producer in 1981 and are allowed up to 500 units for each producer in 1982. Imports of commercial vehicles for special purposes are free of restrictions. Domestic credit financing is restricted for certain imports and foreign financing is required for certain imports. M in imum proportions of foreign financing and minimum repayment terms are prescribed by the Bank of Portugal. Many imports are subject to a tem- porary import surcharge of 10 per cent or 60 per cent of the customs value, irrespective of origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries for current invisibles must be made through authorized banks and are gen- erally free of quantitative restrictions, but for most transactions ceilings are specified for the amounts of foreign exchange that authorized banks may grant freely. For payments to countries with which Portugal does not maintain special clearing arrangements, the autho- rized banks may grant foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Esc 30,000 a transaction for most types of invisibles, including income on imported capital, and the licensing centers (established in continental Portu- gal and the Azores) of those banks may grant up to the 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL equivalent of Esc 250,000, the individual ceilings vary- ing according to the type of operation. For tourism and other private travel they may grant to persons 18 years of age or over the equivalent of Esc 30,000 a person a year, Esc 22,500 for persons between 12 and 18, and Esc 15,000 for children under 12; in addition, tourists may take out of the coun try Esc 5,000 in local currency for each trip. The export of larger amoun ts of domestic or fore ign currency requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Application must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for paymen ts of items not referred to above and for paymen ts in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Under the provisions of the Foreign Investment Code, individual remittances of profits and dividends may be subject to phasing for a period of up to one year, depending on the prevailing balance of payments situation. Phased amounts awaiting remittance may be deposited with domestic banks in accounts denomi- nated in foreign exchange. Special provisions apply to s i tua t ions of serious external imbalance, or when the amount involved is so large as to be deemed to entail serious economic and financial disturbance to the country; in such cases, individual remittances of profits and dividends may be suspended for a period of time to be determined by the Council of M in is ters, but annual remittance of at least 20 per cent of the amount involved shall always be authorized. By the end of 1981, these special provisions were, however, not in force. Exports and Export Proceeds Prior registration is required for all exports valued at over Esc 15,000. Exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bu l le t ins ). Export bulletins are issued freely, with few exceptions; the p r ima ry purpose of this procedure is to enforce the prescription of currency and surrender regulations. The export of a few commodities is restricted, mainly to assure adequate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Personal baggage and exports of merchandise, the value of which does not exceed Esc 15,000, do not require a bulletin, pro- vided they are not expressly excluded from this exemp- tion. Re-exports of merchandise are exempt f rom prior registration, regardless of their value. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank the total amount of the export proceeds, w i th in the period and in the foreign currency stipulated in the export bulletin; the period for repa tr ia t ion of export proceeds is, as a rule, fixed at four months f rom the date of customs clearance. Should settlement for exports occur later than 180 days a f ter customs clear- ance, the exchange rate prevailing on the one hundred and eightieth day would be applied. The Bank of Portugal may authorize the deduction of commission expenses abroad, and freight, insurance, or other charges f rom the total amount subject to surrender. 360 Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese res iden ts may receive f ree ly paymen ts in fore ign currency for invisibles f rom residents of countries w i th which Po r tgual does not have b i la te ral payments a r rangemen ts. Such receipts may be effected through credit ins t i tu t ions and do not requ i re prior au tho r iza t ion by the Bank of Po r tuga l. Receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Nonres ident travelers may b r i ng in f ree ly up to Esc 5,000 in domestic bankno tes and any amount in bankno tes, coin, and checks d enom in a t ed in fo re ign currency for their travel expenses; impo r ts of notes and coin by nonres iden ts for o ther purposes requ i re au thor i- zation by the Bank of Po r tuga l, and the re-export by nonres ident travelers of fo re ign cu r rency in excess of Esc 25,000 requ i res proof of p r ior impo r t a t ion of an equal or larger amoun t. R e t u r n i ng res iden ts may br ing in up to Esc 5,000 in domestic b ankno t es and any amount in fo re ign bankno tes and co in. Au tho r ized banks are not pe rm i t ted to receive or to pay domestic or fo re ign bankno tes or coin for se t t lement of external transactions. Capital All private capital t ran sac t ions between Po r tugal and fore ign coun tr ies are sub ject to prior au tho r iza t ion by the Bank of Portugal, and for t ran sac t ions exceeding Esc 200 m i l l ion and w i th a m a t u r i ty of mo re than one year, the approval of the M in i s t er of Finance also is required. Foreign direct investments in Por tugal are autho- rized on the basis of the Foreign Investment Code. Such investments are perm i t ted in all sectors except those which, under the general law, are closed to pr iva te enterprise corporations. An Exchange R isk Insu rance Fund provides exchange risk in su r an ce aga in st losses caused by exchange rate movemen ts in excess of 3 per cent on approved fo re ign borrow ing. The t rans fer abroad of the proceeds f r om the liqui- dation of fore ign inves tmen ts is au tho r ized a f t er five years, but for large amoun ts the Bank of Por tugal may require that the t r a n s f er be phased over a period not exceeding five years. In such cases, exchange risk guaran tees may be provided. Foreign loans and the ir repayments are au thor ized as necessary. Capital movements and t ran s fe rs of assets are subject to ceilings (up to which they are au tho r ized au toma t i- ca l ly ), according to Por tuga l's reserva t ions to the OECD code of l ibera l iza t ion of cap i tal movements. For larger amoun ts au tho r iza t ions may be gran ted on the merits of each case. Direct t ransac t ions in fo re ign exchange between residents are proh ib i ted. Gold Residents may hold gold in any fo rm in Portugal. The purchase, sale, impor t, export, or re-export of coined or uncoined gold, when carried out between ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Portugal and fore ign coun tr ies, is subject to special advance au tho r iza t ion f rom the Bank of Po r tuga l. There is a free ma rket for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and non res iden ts who are not resident in Por tugal may f ree ly t rade among them- selves in bars, leaves, and coins; se t t lement must take place in patacas or U.S. dollars. In Macao, the Gov- e rnment sets overall l im i ts for impo r ts of gold in any fo rm other th an jewe l ry; au tho r i ty to carry out such impor ts is delegated to a concessionary enterprise. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao mon e t a ry au tho r i t ie s, requ i re licenses issued by the Comm iss ioner for Economy. Changes during 1981 February 11. Import quo tas for completely knocked- down mo tor vehicles were fixed for 1981 (Gove rnment Order No. 1 7 2 / 8 1 ). March 1. The we igh ts of the currenc ies in the cur- rency basket were altered to reflect only the ir impor- tance in Por tuga l's in te rna t ional merchand ise trade. March 31. Import quo ta l im i ta t ions in va lue terms were established for cer ta in nonessential consumer goods for the period th rough March 31, 1982 (Decree No. 310-D /81). PORTUGAL April 10. The special clearing a r rangement with Greece was te rm ina ted and transactions were requ ired to be settled in the currencies quo ted by the Bank of Portugal. April 24. The import surcharge system was extended to December 31, 1981 (Law No. 4 / 8 1 ). July 20. Pa r l iament au thor ized the Gov e rnm ent to liberalize gra in imports, h i the r to monopo l ized by the Public En terpr ise for Gra in Supply (E PAC ). September 8. By a Decision of the Secretary of State for Commerce, the l im it for exemp t ion f rom p r ior reg is tra t ion of impo r ts and expo r ts in the fo rm of "bulletins" was raised f rom Esc 5,000 to Esc 15,000 (Official Gazette, 2nd series, September 8, 1981 ). October 14. Under Decree-Law No. 290 /81, the ju r i sd ic t ion over t rade con trol policy was t r an s f e r r ed f r om the M in i s t ry of Trade and Tourism to the M in- istry of Indus try, Energy, and Export, through its Director-General of Foreign Commerce. December 2. The mon th ly rate of e f fec t ive depreci- ation of the escudo, which had been set at 0.50 per cent in J u ne 1980, was raised to 0.75 per cen t. December 31. Import quotas for completely knocked- dowri motor vehicles were fixed for 1982 (Gove rnment Order No. 1,129/81). 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Qatar is the Qatar Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 = SDR 1. Qatar has established margins of 7.25 per cent around this rate. The Qatar Monetary Agency sets daily market rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and the pound sterling. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were QR 3.6385 and QR 3.6415, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks' exchange rates for transac- tions in U.S. dollars are based on the Monetary Agency's buy ing and selling rates. A spread of 0.87 dir- ham is applied to all transactions. The commercial banks' buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for the U.S. dol- lar and market rates for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Qatar formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect from June 4, 1973. Administration of Control The Qatar Monetary Agency is the exchange control authority, but there is at present no exchange control legislation. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Also prohibited are imports of pork and its derivatives. Imports of alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammunition, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health or public policy. Otherwise, imports are not restricted. There are no restrictions on payments for permitted imports. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatri- ated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Afr ica. Otherwise, there are no limi- tations on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, although payments may not be made to or received f rom Israel and South Afr ica. Foreign partici- pation in certain industrial enterprises is prohibited unless Qatar nationals control at least 51 per cent of the shares. For major industrial projects, it is govern- ment policy to assume a m in imum of 70 per cent ownership. Gold The selling and buying of gold and precious metals for trade purposes are subject to import license and customs duty. Transactions involving Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Changes during 1981 January 1. Sale of high-tar brands of cigarettes in Qatar was prohibited, and the du ty on all types of tobacco was increased. 362 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Romania is the Romanian Leu. The official exchange rate for the leu is lei 4.47 per US$1 and lei 6.67 per rub 1. As part of the exchange rate and price reform started on Janua ry 1, 1981 the importance of the official exchange rate was greatly reduced. While in the past the official exchange rates were used for p lann ing and accounting purposes, at present the only func t ion of the official exchange rate is to serve as a reference point in various categories of transactions for which the applicable exchange rates are defined as the official exchange rate plus an appropriate premium. The National Bank of Romania quotes rates for 15 other currencies defined as "fully convertible"1 and for the Egyptian pound, the Finnish markka, the Greek drachma, the Indian rupee, the Israel shekel, the Portuguese escudo, the Spanish peseta, the Turkish lira, and the Yugoslav dinar, based on the rates for these currencies against the U.S. dollar in the countries con- cerned. For currencies of other countries, except mem- bers of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA ) ,2 A lban ia, and the Democratic People's Re- pub l ic of Korea, exchange rates are based on the quoted rate against a th ird currency. For exchange rate purposes, payments for insurance and transportation connected with trade are considered as trade transactions. With the exception of payments and receipts for travel arranged through tourist organi- zations, which are considered commercial transactions, and of most capital transactions (excluding transfer of inher i tances), nontrade exchange transactions with countries other than the CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea are carried out at the noncommercial exchange rate, expressed as the off ic ial rate plus a premium of 146.03 per cent, resulting in a rate of lei 11 per US$1. Tourist transactions handled through tourist organiza- tions, and capital transactions with countries other than the socialist countries are settled at lei 15 per US$1. For ind iv idual travel to nonsocialist countries and for certain other expenditures abroad, such as personal subscriptions to periodicals and legal penalties, the rate is lei 22 per US$1. For nontrade transactions with the CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, special exchange rates are estab- lished by multilateral or bilateral agreement; for trans- actions w i th the U.S.S.R., this rate is lei 8.30 per rub 1. Following the abolition of the equalization system on January 1, 1981, there continued to be multiple exchange 1 Aus tra l ian dollars, Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian k rone r, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 The participants in the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. rates for foreign trade but, instead of the uncountable number of implicit rates under the old system, there were 29 discrete rates by the end of 1981. Administration of Control Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export transactions are effected by authorized indus t r ial cen- trals, producing enterprises, and foreign trade enter- prises. Import and export transac t ions are subject to authorizations granted by the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade and In terna t ional Economic Cooperation. In the issuing of authorizations the provisions of existing trade agreements are taken in to account. Foreign currency proceeds f rom exports are sold to the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade; foreign currency required for im- port payments is purchased f rom that bank. Exchange control is administered by the M in is try of Finance, the Na t ional Bank, and the R om a n i an Bank for Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Payments to and f rom countries with which Romania has bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies and in accordance with the procedures set fo r th in those agreements.8 If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Certain com- mercial settlements with Turkey are made in U.S. dollars under a credit agreement. Perm i t ted foreign payments may not be made in lei. Nonresident Accounts Foreign ju r id ical and physical persons may ma in ta in accounts with the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade or with the National Bank. These accounts are of three k inds: A-Accounts are m a in t a in ed in convertible currency or in lei obtained for convertible currencies, f rom the selling of precious metals, coins, or ingots, other than silver; B-Accounts are ma in ta ined in non- convertible currencies quoted by the Na t ional Bank, in clearing currency, or in lei received f rom the conversion of such currencies. Transactions in any ind iv idual B-Account may be effected in only one such currency. C-Accounts are ma in ta ined in lei received f rom other legal sources. A-Accounts may be debited for paymen ts abroad in any currency, for paymen ts w i th in the coun try, and for t ran s fe rs to any other A, B, or C-Account. B-Accounts may be debited for all payments abroad in the cur- rencies f rom which the f u n ds were derived and for 3 The coun tr ies with which bilateral paymen ts agreements were in force as of December 31, 1981 were A lban ia, Bangladesh, Brazil, People's Repub l ic of China, Colombia, Ecuado r, Ghana, India, Iran, Democra t ic People's Republic of Korea, Lebanon, and Viet Nam. Se t t lemen ts with Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Demo- cra t ic Republic, Hunga ry, Mongolia, Poland, and U.S.S.R. take place th rough the mu l t i la teral paymen ts system w i th in the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. Certain se t t lemen ts with Singapore also take place through special accounts. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA payments within Romania. C-Accounts may be debited only for domestic transactions. The transactions per- mitted for the different accounts do not require any fur ther authorization. Nonresidents may also keep accounts in lei with the Savings and Consignment Bank. The Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade may accept from nonresident customers time deposits in convertible foreign currencies, on which interest is paid at rates prevailing in international markets. Romanian citizens, including Romanians working abroad who transfer their savings to Romania, may open foreign currency accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade or the National Bank. The deposits may be used for payments in foreign cur- rency, at home or abroad, or for exchange into lei at the official rate plus premium (lei 11 per US$1). The entire amount of foreign exchange received from abroad for special purposes for the benefit of Roman- ian citizens (such as the building or purchasing of a house, the purchase of an automobile, the purchase of other goods or services whose prices are expressed in foreign currency, travel abroad, and other pur- poses) may be used by the recipients. For certain other foreign exchange receipts from abroad, such as inheritances, donations, assistance, or family main- tenance, a proportion may be deposited in a foreign currency account and the rest must be converted in to lei at the official rate plus premium. Imports and Exports The general policy targets for foreign trade are set at the central level. Import and export plans are drawn up by the basic economic units, production enterprises, and industrial centrals on the basis of current and long-term needs. The foreign trade plan specifies only a limited number of goods considered of particular importance for the national economy, especially raw materials. The total planned trade does not separate importing or exporting countries but dis- tinguishes between the clearing area and the conver- tible currency area, according to the manner of settle- ment of exchange payments and receipts. Import and export transactions are carried out on the basis of authorizations issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Coopera- tion, for each commodity or group of commodities. The authorizations are not restrictive or discriminatory and may be issued, at the request of foreign trade units, for all types of goods, regardless of origin. The Ministry may take measures to curb imports with a view to equilibrating the balance of payments, for the protection of public health, for reasons of national defense and the security of the State, etc., in accor- dance with the provisions of the GATT. As a rule, annual import authorizations expressed in value terms are issued to individual importing enterprises as a lump sum or for a single kind of product. The author- ization stipulates whether import payments are to be 364 made in convertible currency or under bilateral pay- ments arrangements, and, in the latter case, the coun- try is also specified. Export proceeds must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Imports for investment in complex installations (assemblies, subassemblies, machinery, equipment, and spare par ts) are delivered to the buy ing un i ts at domes- tic prices which are equal to the customs value (cal- culated by multiplying the external price by lei 15 per US$1) plus customs duties. Imports of consumer goods are delivered to the commercial purchasing units at retail prices less the commercial discount. The difference between prices so derived and prices cal- culated on the basis of customs value plus customs duties and, in some cases, the turnover tax, is reflected in the financial accounts of the importing foreign trade unit. Imports are subject to customs duties, although duties are not applied to 121 ta r i ff positions and sub- positions. Customs duties are temporarily not being levied on imports of raw materials, assemblies, sub- assemblies, and spare parts for production, repair, and maintenance, totaling about 500 ta r i ff positions and subpositions. The customs ta r i ff is nondiscriminatory. Invisibles All transactions in invisibles not connected with foreign trade transactions require general or individual authorization given by either the Ministry of Finance or the appropriate ministry. For most categories of payments in respect of invisibles, foreign exchange is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. For travel outside the socialist coun- tries an exchange allocation is provided up to the equivalent of US$70 a tr ip for each adult. In addi- tion, tourist agencies may organize group or individual trips payable in lei. Receipts f rom transactions in invisibles must be sold to the Roman ian Bank for For- eign Trade, and the foreign currency required for payments in respect of such transactions is bought from the same bank. Receipts in foreign currencies from travelers are converted at lei 11 per US$1. Travelers with permanent residence in nonsocialist countries must convert at least US$10 a person a day (or the equivalent in other "acceptable" cu r renc ies )4 dur ing their stay in Romania. This requirement does not apply to (a) holders of diplomatic and service passports and their families; (b) newspaper and radio and television correspondents accredited to Romania and their families; (c) persons studying in Romania and their spouses; (d) permanent foreign personnel of foreign firms or agencies authorized to operate in Romania (including jo int ven tures) and their fam i- 4 The acceptable currencies, in addition to the U.S. dollar, are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish m a rkk a a, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Israel shekels, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Turkish liras, and Yugoslav dinars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution lies; (e) guests of socialist un i ts and of other jur id ical persons in Romania, as well as of international orga- nizations having their headquarters in Romania; (f) children under 14; (g) teachers visiting Romania under agreements for cultural, technical, and scientific cooperation and their fam i l ies; (h) persons who can be shown to have made paymen ts for tourist services; (i) fore ign personnel in assembly works or providing technical assistance in Roman ia and their fam i l ies; (j) persons of Roman ian origin hav ing fore ign citizen- ship or who are stateless; (k) Roman ian citizens possessing a valid Roman ian passport who are domi- ciled abroad; (1) persons resident abroad without a valid Romanian passport, but who have not renounced their Roman ian citizenship; and (m) parents, spouses, and children of persons in categories ( j ) - ( ! ). For- eign diplomats and tourists, as well as Roman ian citi- zens legally holding fore ign currencies, may purchase certain domestically produced or imported consumer goods in specialized shops, against payment in con- vertible currencies. The import and export of Roman- ian notes and coin by travelers are prohibited. Capital All inward and ou tward t rans fe rs of foreign exchange must be authorized by the Ministry of Finance. Outward transfers of f u n ds belonging to resident physical persons are not no rma l ly perm i t ted. For certain established categories, such as inheritances, reciprocal agreements have been concluded with a number of countries prov id ing for au toma t ic authoriza- tion of transfers of specified amoun ts to and f rom Romania. The Foreign Trade Law provides for the establish- ment of jo int ventures in Roman ia and abroad by Romanian economic organizations. Foreigners are also allowed to invest capital in jo int ven tures in Romania, up to 49 per cent of the total capital of the company concerned. The Foreign Trade Law and implementing ROMANIA decrees guaran tee the repa tr ia t ion in fo re ign cu r rency of the capital, and the t rans fer in fo re ign currency of profits af ter taxes. By agreement, the accounts of jo int ventures may be kept in an agreed currency. Gold The Na t ional Bank has sole au tho r i ty to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. The Bank, in tu rn, authorizes certain ju r id ical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transac t ions. The ownership by physical persons, for domestic and personal use, of jewelry and of a r t is t ic and cu l tu r al objects of gold is not restricted. Changes during 1981 January 1. A new law inco rpo ra t ing an exchange and price reform was adopted, under w h i c h: (a) A un i fo rm rate of exchange was to be established annua l ly; for 1981 the rate was set at lei 15 per US$1. The un i fo rm rate of exchange would be the average of the exchange rates established for specific categories of imports and exports. For exports, domestic prices would be the foreign price times the specific exchange rate applicable. For other trade transac t ions, the un i fo rm rate of exchange would apply, (b) The ex- change rate for trade with member coun tr ies of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA ), Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea was changed to lei 15 per transferab le ruble. January 1. The bilateral payments agreement be- tween Romania and Greece was terminated. February 16. The premium over the official rate with respect to nontrade transactions with countries other than the CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea was changed to 146.09 per cent, resulting in a rate of lei 11 per US$1. December 31. The bilateral payments agreement between Romania and Finland was terminated. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position on December 31, 1981} Exchange Arrangement The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda Franc, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at RF 92.84 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates are RF91.91 and RF 93.77, respectively, per US$1. For certain other currencies1 that are officially quoted, the daily middle rates are derived from the fixed rate with the dollar and the exchange rate between the dollar and the currency in question two business days earlier, calculated as the cross rate between the dollar value of the SDR and the value of the SDR in the national market of the currency concerned. The average rate for the Burundi franc, which also is officially quoted, is the ratio between the fixed rate for the U.S. dollar in Kigali and the fixed rate for the U.S. dollar in Bu jumbura. The officially quoted rates for the zaire and for the Kenya shilling are derived from the dollar value of the SDR two days earlier and the fixed relationship of these currencies to the SDR. The buying and selling rates for all cur- rencies are set 1 per cent below and 1 per cent above the middle rate, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the National Bank of Rwanda (the central b a n k ); authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange policy and foreign trade policy are, in principle, deter- mined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Committee, which comprises the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the National Bank, and five other members. However, this Committee is inoperative. Prescription of Currency The National Bank has concluded agreements with the central banks of neighboring countries and Kenya, under which settlements are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible domestic currency. Balances on such accounts are periodically transferable. Other- wise, payments for imports must be made in the cur- rency approved by the National Bank, which, in principle, is the currency of the country of origin. Payments from any country may be received in Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Foreign payments, except in border trade, are generally made by bank transfer; the National Bank may, however, authorize other means of payment such as checks or telegraphic 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 366 transfers. Exchange are prohibited. transactions with South Africa Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports of a few types of goods, such as narcotics, explosives, and weapons, are prohibited from all sources for reasons of public policy. All imports valued at over RF 100,000 c. & f. Kigali require licenses, as do those valued at less than RF 100,000 c. & f. Kigali, if pay- ment is required in foreign exchange. No license is required for the import of merchandise valued at or below RF 100,000 c. & f. Kigali, when paid for in Rwanda francs. Imports of household and personal effects of nonresidents and resident expatriates are also exempt. The National Bank levies a fee of 1 per cent of the f.o.b. value for the validation of import licenses. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses must be submitted to the National Bank through an authorized bank. The approval of an import license application constitutes an authorization to obtain the required foreign exchange. The National Bank grants global import licenses for certain essential commodities and for limited amounts to individual firms in order to ensure their continuous operation; these are valid for three months. Licenses are examined at the National Bank to avoid overinvoic- ing. Any importer applying for a license must do so on the appropriate fo rm and state that when paying for the imports he will not exceed the credit limit normally allowed under the regulations. Prior to June 30 of each year, all importers must provide the foreign exchange authorities with (1) balance sheets and income statements for the past three years, and (2) a declaration of the amount of taxes paid dur ing each of these years, with supporting documents. Dealers in imported auto- mobiles must be registered as such by the National Bank. At the time of obtaining an import license, the import- ing dealer must deposit an amount equivalent to the c.i.f. Kigali value a f ter customs clearance for (1) auto- mobiles over 11 horsepower, and (2) automobiles having 11 horsepower or less but whose c.i.f. value is over RF 1.8 million. Only used automobiles that are less than three years old can be imported, and the importer has to assure the availability of spare parts. Except as stated above, there are no restrictions as to currency of payment or permitted origin or place of shipment, but control is exercised to ensure that pay- ments are made to the supplier or shipper. Imports whose f.o.b. value on the pro forma invoice is greater than RF 1.5 million are inspected by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva for quality and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution quan t i ty in the coun t ry of o r ig in2 prior to shipment, and at the same time prices are verified. Import licenses must be presented when the goods are cleared through customs. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clearance form, a copy of which is then sent to the National Bank. For imports of products originating in member countries of the Eco- nomic Commun i ty of the Great Lake Countries (CEPGL), import licenses are replaced by import notices. The Rwanda investment code grants special concessions to enterprises under a contractual arrange- ment, which may imply exemption from import duties on certain types of equipment. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the National Bank is required for all payments for invisibles. Foreign exchange is sold by the Na t ional Bank, through the authorized banks, for (1) transport and other expenses (except insurance) connected with imports and exports; (2) transfers of the salaries or wages earned by foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract (net of taxes, net of the employee's share of social security contributions, and an amount for local expenses equiva- lent to either 40 per cent of net pay a f ter tax —with a m in imum of RF 35,000—or a lump sum of RF 60,000 plus RF 10,000 for each dependent in Rwanda, which- ever is h igher); and (3) transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self-employed or engaged in a profession or established as independent traders. A fee of RF 350 is levied for a transfer authori- zation. Payments in respect of transport charges on imports cannot be made until imported goods have been cleared through customs (except in cases of payment by means of documentary credit payable on load ing ). Insurance on imports and exports must be taken out locally, with the Societe Nationale d'Assurance du Rwanda (SONARWA ). Net profits and dividends due to nonresidents may, in principle, be remitted abroad in fu l l, subject to the right of the National Bank to prescribe their transfer in installments. The purchase of tickets for travel abroad requires the prior approval of the National Bank. Purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic banknotes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the National Bank to take out fore ign banknotes. Non- resident travelers may take out any amount in foreign 2 Except for imports from Afghanistan, Albania, Burundi, Cameroon, Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, People's Republic of China, Comoros, Djibouti, Gabon, Guinea, Iraq, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Liberia, L ibyan A rab Jamahiriya, Mali, Niger, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, Syrian Arab Republic, Tanzania, Uganda, U.S.S.R., Upper Volta, Viet Nam, Yemen Arab Republic, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Zaire, and Zimbabwe. RWANDA bankno tes declared upon entry less the amount of their expenditures in Rwanda. Commercial banks are not perm i t ted to export domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports, except trade samples, personal and household effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to prior declaration. Declarations for all exports must be presented to the Na t ional Bank through an authorized bank for certification, for which a fee of RF 350 is levied. A declaration is valid for three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. For exports to Burundi, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire, payment must be collected not later than 30 days a f ter the goods have left the country; for exports to all other countries, this period is 120 days. All exchange proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days f rom the ir collection. Proceeds front Invisibles All receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks within 8 days from their collection. The collection of claims resulting f rom services per- formed for nonresidents must take place w i th in 30 days of the date on which the claim falls due. Travelers may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Commercial banks are not permitted to import domestic banknotes. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the Na t ional Bank. Such approval is rarely given unless the t rans fer relates to a fore ign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment Law or to the personal effects of a foreign na t ional re turn ing to his own country. Retransfer guarantees, as well as an exchange rate guarantee, may be given by the National Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows rema in ing in Rwanda for at least two months. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Rwanda for numismatic purposes only. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold require licenses and are normally made only by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1981 January 2. Restrictions were l i f t ed on transfers of net ren tal income by nonresidents and resident expa- triates. 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Lucia is the East Caribbean Dol- lar,1 which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority. The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6848 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Authority also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. St. Lucia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 30, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all currencies. Export licensing is required for a range of primary products. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR icoM )2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM coun try con- cerned or in East Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made either in any foreign cu r rency3 or in East Caribbean dollars. Where jus t if ied by the na tu re of the transaction, approval may be given to make payment for goods and services in a currency d ifferent from that of the country to which payment is to be made. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents and business enterprises with the approval of the Minis- try of Finance and may be maintained in the currency of receipt or in East Caribbean dollars. These accounts may only be credited with foreign drafts or checks, but hotels may deposit currency notes in them. Such accounts may be debited for payments to residents pay- able in East Caribbean dollars and, after approval by the Ministry of Finance, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel purposes and other specified pay- ments, including payment for imports. Resident com- panies may be allowed to open External Accounts (in East Caribbean currency or the currency of receipt), provided that deposits to the accounts are restricted to funds received from overseas and that drawings on the accounts are for payments abroad. Local payments from 1 The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, and St. Vincent and Grenadines. 2 The CARICOM countries are An t igua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis- Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. 368 these accounts require that the amount be converted to East Caribbean dollars. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom South A f r ica are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license. Certain other commodities requ ire ind iv idual licenses, unless imported f rom CAR ICOM coun tr ies. St. Lucia applies the new rules of o r ig in of merchandise adopted by the CARICOM in June 1981. Paymen ts for authorized imports are permitted upon app l ica t ion to a local bank and submission of documen ta ry evidence. Advance paymen ts for impor ts requ i re pr ior approval by the M in is try of Finance. Imports of live animals, m i lk, mea t, fish, eggs, fer- tilizers, and most agricultural and indus tr ial machinery are exempt from import duties. Other exempt items inc lude most imports f rom CAR ICOM and East Carib- bean Common Market (ECCM) coun tr ies, impor ts under indus tr ial incentive legislation, and items exempted under the Hotel Aids Ordinance. Import duties begin at a m in imum of 5 per cent and are scheduled to be brought in line w i th the CARICOM common ex ternal ta r i ff by 1983; du t ies on bay rum and firearms are at a higher rate of 70 per cent. Imports of fe r t i l ize rs are sub ject to a stamp du ty of 5/f> of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value. All other imports are subject to a s tamp du ty of 7 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Residents may purchase foreign exchange f rom autho- rized banks up to the equivalent of EC$ 1,500 a year for travel outside the East Caribbean Currency Au tho r i ty area; this limit may be exceeded only w i th permission f rom the Ministry of Finance. For travel w i th in the CARICOM area using CARICOM travelers checks (wh ich are denom ina ted in Trinidad and Tobago cu r r en cy ), the basic allowance is EC$2,000 a year. The East Caribbean dollar is freely transferab le w i th in the ECCA. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, prof i ts may be remitted in fu l l, subject to conf irma t ion by the Com- missioner of Inland Revenue that local tax liabilities have been discharged. However, in cases where profits are deemed to be high, the M in is try of Finance reserves the right to phase remittances over a reasonable period of time. Insurance prem iums are subject to tax as fol- lows: l i fe insurance, 1.5 per cent for residents and 3 per cent for nonresidents; general insurance, 3 per cent and 5 per cent for residents and nonres iden ts, respectively. Exports and Export Proceeds For certain commodities, no licenses are required for export to any destination. Proceeds f rom exports must, in principle, be surrendered. A du ty of 0.4 cent a pound is levied on exports of bananas. A special fee of EC$0.20 a barrel is applied on re-exports of petroleum. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must, in principle, be surrendered. Travelers to St. Lucia may bring in freely notes and coin denomi- nated in East Caribbean dollars or in any foreign cur- rency. Foreign currency coin is not normally exchanged by the banks. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange con- trol approval. The purchase by residents of foreign cur- rency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require approval, which is normally gran ted provided that local tax liabilities have been discharged. Purchase of property is subject to a tax levied at a h igher rate in the case of nonresident purchasers. Gold There are no restrictions on imports of gold. Changes during 1981 June 1. The new CARICOM rules of origin of merchan- dise were adopted for the purpose of preferen t ial import ta r i f fs within the CARICOM area. November 25. The stamp du ty on imported goods was raised from 6 per cent to 7 per cent of the c.i.f. value of dutiable goods. 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is the East Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority. The East Carib- bean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The Currency Authority also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. The sale of foreign exchange by commercial banks is sub- ject to a 2 per cent tax. St. Vincent and the Grenadines formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from August 24, 1981. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the East Caribbean Currency Authority area. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import payments and certain other payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR icoM)2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East Carib- bean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. They are maintained in East Caribbean dollars and may be credited with inward remittances in foreign currency and with transfers f rom other External Accounts. Except with the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, East Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coin, and payments by residents may not be credited to External Accounts. These accounts may, however, be freely debited for payments abroad and to residents, without the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Quarterly statements of the accounts must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance by the operating banks. 1 The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, and St. Lucia. 2 The CARICOM countries are An t igua and Ba rbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis- Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 Foreign currencies Caribbean dollar. include all currencies other than the East 370 Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in foreign currencies may be opened by nonresidents with the authorization of the M in is try of Finance; such accounts may be credited only with funds in the fo rm of remittances f rom over- seas. Except with the prior permission of the M in is try of Finance, remittances in East Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coin, and payments by residents may not be credited to a foreign currency account. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad without prior authorization by the M in is try of Finance. Quarterly statements of the accounts must be submitted to the M in is try of Finance by the operating banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports are divided into three categories: most goods may be freely imported; imports of some goods which compete with typical exports of other countries in the CARICOM and the East Caribbean Common Marke t4 are subject to licenses; and imports of goods which compete with locally made products are prohibited in some cases. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence and, when required, of the license. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for travel, medical trea tmen t, education, subscription and membership fees, and g if ts are subject to limits. All other payments exceeding EC$50 require approval by the M in is try of Finance. Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$2,500 a year for travel outside the East Caribbean Currency Au thor i ty area; for busi- ness travel, additional allocations of foreign exchange may be made available up to an amount not exceeding EC$6,000 a year. The above allocations can be increased with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Purchases of foreign currency to cover ex- penses for medical treatment abroad are authorized by the M in is try of Finance upon presentation of a w r i t ten statement by a local medical practitioner of the need for the trea tmen t. The amount approved is based on the actual cost of the treatment. The amount of local currency that can be taken out by travelers is l im i ted to EC$50 a trip. Students a t tend ing educational institutions overseas are permitted to purchase fore ign exchange to cover the 4 The East Caribbean Common Market is composed of An t igua and Barbuda, Dominica, G renada, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and Grenadines. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cost of tuition and living expenses. Documentary proof of acceptance and attendance at the institution is required. Transfers of funds within the East Caribbean Currency Authority area require authorization of the Ministry of Finance in cases of individual transactions exceeding EC$2,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South A f r ica are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export to any destination of some agricultural goods included in the CARICOM marke t ing protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade, which in some cases has delegated the power to the St. Vincent Agr icu l tural Ma rke t ing Board. Export proceeds must be surrendered. A 3 per cent export du ty is levied on bananas, arrowroot, starch, and ginger. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in freely notes and coin denominated in East Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange con- trol approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. On ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES presentation of documentary proof that permanent residence is being taken in a foreign country, emigrants may apply to the Ministry of Finance to transfer funds abroad based on the value of assets held in St. Vincent. Transfer of sums exceeding EC$20,000 a year is not normally permitted. The t rans fer of proceeds from sales of assets held by emigrants already resident in a foreign country is also limited to EC$20,000 a year. Direct investment in St. Vincent by nonresidents is not subject to exchange control. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds f rom, such invest- ment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Vincent. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coin for num isma t ic purposes only. Under license by the Ministry of Finance, imports of gold are permitted for indus t r ial purposes only. Changes during 1981 July 1. The tax on outward remittances of foreign exchange was raised from 1 per cent to 2 per cent of value. In addition, the export license fee on coconuts was raised f rom EC$0.10 to EC$0.50. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement Prescription of Currency The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe Dobra, which is pegged to the SDR at Db 45.25 = SDR 1. The middle rate quoted by the National Bank of Sao Tome and Principe (the central bank) for the dobra against the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, is determined on the basis of the daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also determined on the basis of the Fund's daily calculations of the exchange rates of these currencies with respect to the SDR. On December 31, 1981 the buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were Db 38.5405 and Db 39.5162, respectively, per US$1. Charges on purchases and sales of foreign exchange are influenced by the relatively high processing cost of transactions with the rest of the world, reflecting the limited communication facilities. Foreign exchange transactions are divided in to three categories for the purposes of these charges —namely, import payments, transactions in foreign checks, and collection of export proceeds. On import-related exchange transactions, the National Bank charges a commission of 1 per cent of value and a postage levy of Db 20 for each transaction; in addition, there is a stamp duty of 1 per cent on im- port bills and of 3 per cent on import letters of credit. (Import financing other than by letters of credit is not subject to the 3 per cent stamp du ty .) For foreign checks for collection, the Na t ional Bank applies a commission in favor of the collecting foreign correspondents, amount- ing to the equivalent of US$6 for funds rang ing between US$100 and US$1,000 and the equivalent of US$10 for amoun ts in excess of US$1,000; in add i t ion, the National Bank charges a postage levy of Db 15 for each transac- tion, together with a stamp duty of Db 3 for amounts not exceeding the equivalent of Db 1,000 and Db 2 for each Db 500 or part thereof above the equivalent of Db 1,000. For collection of export proceeds, the Na- tional Bank charges, in favor of foreign correspondents, a commission margin that varies according to the value of the transaction; there is also a separate commission of 1 per cent, and a postage levy at a minimum of Db 50 for each transaction. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the National Bank. The exchange controls are applied flexibly, and exceptions to the stated limits are permitted on an ad hoc basis. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the National Bank, and all exchange payments must be made through that Bank. Import and export licenses are granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. 372 The National Bank may prescribe the currency in which foreign exchange transactions shall be made. There are bilateral payments agreements with Cape Verde and the German Democratic Republic. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing. Licenses are extended in accordance w i th Advance Import Registra- tion Bulletins, which are valid for four months, but may be extended, if necessary. The license specifies the quantity and the c.i.f. and f.o.b. values of the product to be imported. It also specifies the currency of settlement. Licenses g ran ted have to be presented to the Na t ional Bank w i t h in 15 days in order to receive foreign exchange cover. Impor ts of some products, such as beans, corn and corn flour, fuels, edible oils, meat, m i lk, rice, salt, soap, sugar, and wheat are a s ta te monopoly and are impor ted exclusively by the External Commerce Company. Licenses are granted under the annual import p lan, tak ing into account the availability of foreign exchange and the country's supply and economic deve lopment requ iremen ts. Prepayment of impor ts is pe rm i t ted only through the opening of letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles are approved according to l im i ta t ions established by the Na t ional Bank and in accordance with l im i ts specified under Decree-Law No. 5/81 of February 16, 1982. The limits, which allow for additional amounts in ju s t i f iab le cases, include those for ( 1) transfers for medical t rea tment abroad when local fac i l i t ies are in su f f i c i en t; (2) transfers of monthly remittances to s tuden ts; (3) t rans fe rs of savings from earnings when under technical cooperation agree- ments w i th the Government; and (4) t rans fe rs for pay- ment of fares, fre igh t, costs of commun ica t ion with fore ign countries, etc. Purchases of fore ign exchange by residents for tourism are strictly limited, although air fares may be paid in domestic currency. Transfers of profits by foreign companies established in Sao Tome and Principe prior to independence have been tempo- rarily suspended. There are no limitations on remittances for subscriptions to periodicals, books, etc., or on the payments of interest on external debt, provided the existence of the debt can be established. Foreign exchange allowances for medical purposes are permitted up to Db 20,000 in the first month and Db 10,000 in each of the ensuing two months, if adequate justification is provided. Further transfers may be approved beyond the add i t ional two months, if justifiable. Transfers of pension payments or social security payments are also permitted for nonresident nationals who had been ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution receiving such allowances by 1980. Payments for tech- nical assistance and other services in the national interest are allowed. At the beg inn ing of the school year a s tudent may receive a special t rans fer of up to Db 5,000 a year for expenses related to his courses; in addition, remittances of ma in tenance allowance of up to Db 2,000 may be made in eligible cases. All payments related to invisibles are subject to a stamp tax of 2 per cent. If the payment is made through a telegraphic transfer, the tax is 4 per cent. Foreign travelers may take out in foreign exchange an amount not greater than the total sum declared upon entry. For this purpose, it is expected that the daily expenses of a tourist will not be less than Db 1,500. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not a state monopoly. All exports require an export license, as set out in Advance Export Registra- tion Bulletins, which specifies the quan t i ty and c.i.f. or f.o.b. va lue of the export. All export proceeds must be received through the National Bank. The Directorate of External Commercial Enterprises, a state institution, is responsible for exports, including those produced in the nationalized sector of the economy. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign exchange. SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE Capital Inward foreign investments are governed by the Inves tment Code (Decree-Law No. 30/80, of August 5, 1980). Transfers are permitted for repayment of f inanc- ing under agreements with the Government and for the amortization of pr iva te sector investments in activities considered to be of na t ional interest. A new investment code to be issued in the near f u t u re w i ll govern trans- actions related to inward foreign investments. Personnel under technical assistance programs are allowed to transfer their savings in accordance with the terms of their contracts. Gold Exports and imports of gold require special authori- zation by the National Bank. Changes during 1981 January 2. An investment code was enacted, o f fe r ing incentives to foreign investments in specified sectors. February 16. Decree-Law No. 5/81 was promul- gated, specifying limits and eligibility conditions for the use of foreign exchange for import payments and invisibles. 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Arabian Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at SRls 4.28255 = SDR 1. Saudi Arabia at present applies margins not exceeding 7.25 per cent around that fixed relationship. The middle rate of the Saudi Arab ian riyal for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, quoted by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency is determined on the basis of the Fund's daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1981 the Monetary Agency's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was SRls 3.415; it sold U.S. dol- lars to banks at SRls 3.42 per US$1 and bought f rom banks and the principal producer of petroleum at SRls 3.41 per US$1; these rates served as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being per- mitted to charge up to 0.25 per cent above and below the Monetary's Agency's buying and selling rates. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. v Saudi Arabia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel and South Africa is prohibited.1 No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. The impor- tation of a few commodities is prohibited for reasons of health or security; importation of certain other items in specified forms is also prohibited. Some imports are subject to customs duties at rates ranging between 3 per cent and 20 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. The re-export of cer- ta in imported items benefiting f rom government subsidy is prohibited. 1 In addition, all imports from these countries and all exports to these countries are prohibited; payments may not be made to them or be received f rom them for all types of transactions whe ther of a current or capital na ture. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Travelers may freely import and export Saudi Arabian banknotes and coin. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. The Monetary Agency has issued guidelines to its foreign correspondent banks requiring them to seek approval prior to the flotation of riyal-denominated loans. The Foreign Capital Investment Law provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved fore ign investments in Saudi Arabia. Approved foreign capital enjoys the same privileges as domestic capital under the 1962 Law for the Protection and Promotion of National Indus try. Foreign capital invested in indus tr ial or agricultural projects w i th at least 25 per cent Saudi Arabian partici- pation is exempt from income and corporate tax for ten years after production has begun. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, including private persons, may freely and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs du ty or tax, import and export gold in any form, with the exception of 14-karat gold, the import of which is prohibited. Changes during 1981 During the year, the middle rate of the Saudi Arabian riyal against the U.S. dollar was ad jus ted nine times; cumulatively, the rate moved f rom SRls 3.325 = US$1 to SRls 3.415 = US$1. May 1. Gold imports of 14 kara ts were prohibited. July 1. Importation of cigarettes containing more than 15 milligrams of tar and 1 milligram of nicotine a cigarette was prohibited. November 1. Customs duties on dry cell batteries, table salt, matches, and a number of other import items having domestic substitutes were raised from 2 per cent to 20 per cent in order to protect domestic industries. December 18. A ministerial resolution was issued, restricting the operations of the money-changing houses and placing a moratorium on issuance of licenses for the establishment of new money-changing offices. 374 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Senegal is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed ra te of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The off ic ial buy ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived f rom the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French f ranc and the CFA f r an c. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for t ran s fe rs f rom countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill for t rans fe rs to such countries.2 An exchange commission of 0.125-1.0 per mill, depending on the amoun t, is charged by the banks on purchases or sales of foreign exchange other than those directly related to external transactions. In addition, they levy a commis- sion on transfers to all countries outside the West Afri- can Monetary Un ion, 72 per cent of which must be surrendered to the Treasury through the Central Bank. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repa tr ia t ion of export proceeds, Senegal's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Depar tmen ts and Territories) and Monaco; and ( 2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Money and Credit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to col- lect, either directly or through the banks, other financial ins t i tu t ions, the Postal Administration, and notaries pub- lic, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, including those for gold. *The CFA f r anc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a m in imum flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. Prescription of Currency Since Senegal is an Operations Account country, set- tlements with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Maur i tan ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally settled through the West African Clearing House. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or bankno tes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account is not permitted, except for BCEAO banknotes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Dakar by an authorized bank's foreign corre- spondent; such banknotes may be credited to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter with an autho- rized bank in Senegal. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, w i thout prior au thor iza t ion, with the value of BCEAO banknotes mailed by authorized intermedi- aries directly to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or proceeding from South Africa are prohibited, and the import of certain goods is prohibited from all countries except member states of the West African Economic Community. The import f rom any source of a number of other commodities is subject to individual licensing. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area are generally free of license and qu an t i t a t ive restriction; some goods, although free f rom import license, require prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is try of Economy and Finance. Imports of virtually all goods f rom EC countries ( the six original member s ta tes) and imports of some goods f rom all countries of the fo rmer Organization for European Economic Coop- eration (OEEC ), the Un i ted States, and Canada are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction; such liberalized imports require only an import cer t if ica te made out by the importer himself. Imports of certain goods f rom coun- tries outside the EC, the French Franc Area, or the West A f r ican Economic Community are subject to prior authorization. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 100,000 (delivered at the Sene- 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL galese border or c . i .f .). The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before ship- ment if a documentary credit is opened or the due date for settlement if the commodities have already been imported (if no documentary credit has been opened, on presentation of the bill of lad ing ). Furthermore, payments for imports may not be made prior to customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts to South Afr ica are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Authorized banks are empowered to effect any payment abroad up to CFAF 20,000 on behalf of residents. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling ,to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a year for each person (CFAF 100,000 for children under t e n ); any fore ign exchange remaining after re turn to Senegal must be surrendered. Applications for additional amounts of foreign exchange may also be approved. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 300,000 a person a trip, but not more than the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 may be taken out in for- eign notes. The t ran s fer of the f u ll net salary of a foreigner working in Senegal is permitted upon presen- tation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within a few months following the pay period; however, for Mau r i tan ian nationals working in Senegal the transferable portion is limited to 50 per cent or 80 per cent, depending on family status and residence, except for leave salaries, which are t rans fe r- able in full. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign coun- tries may take out, in addition to any foreign exchange allocation, up to CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but, if proceeding to a coun try that is not a member of the West A f r ican Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 200,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out any means of payment, such as travelers checks, issued abroad in their name. However, the export of foreign banknotes in amounts in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 376 is authorized only up to the amount declared by them on entry (m inus sales of foreign exchange in Senegal and plus any repurchases up to CFAF 50,000). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South A f r ica are prohibited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, d iamonds, t u na fish), exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses, ma in ly in order to assure adequate supplies for domestic needs and to prevent certain re-exports. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries, including countries of the French Franc Area, must norma l ly be collected within 120 days of the a r r ival of the goods at the ir des t ina t ion and surrendered through authorized in termed iary banks not later than one month a f ter the due date. All export transactions exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be domi- ciled w i th an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles w i th France (as def ined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amoun ts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom fore ign assets, must be collected and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, w i th in one mon th of the due date or the da te of receipt. Resident and nonresident trav- elers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bankno tes and coin (except gold co in) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents br ing ing in foreign banknotes must declare them to the customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank w i th in eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and South A f r ica are prohibited. Capital movements between Senegal and France (as defined a b o v e ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts f rom such countries are perm i t ted freely. Special controls ( a d d i t i o n al to any exchange control requ iremen ts that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrow ing abroad, over inward d irect investment and all ou tward investment, and over the issuing, adver- t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Sene- gal. Such operations require prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in is ter of Economy and F inance. Exempt f rom autho- rization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guaran tee f rom the Senegalese Government and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issue, offer ing, or sale in Senegal has previously been authorized. With ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France, Monaco, member coun t r ies of the West A f r i c an Mone ta ry Un ion, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are ma in ta ined also over imports and exports of gold, over the so l ic i t ing of funds for deposit w i th fore ign private persons and foreign firms and ins t i tu t ions, and over pub l ic i ty aimed at placing f u n ds abroad or at subscrib- ing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investment abroad by residents of Senegal requires prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance.3 Foreign direct investments in Senegal4 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before such investments are made. The Minister has a period of two mon ths f rom receipt of the declaration, du r ing which he may request postponement of the project. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ing of direct and other investments, whether these are Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments cons t i tu te investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad requires prior autho- rization by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this au tho r iza t ion: ( 1) loans con s t i tu t ing a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; ( 3) loans other than those mentioned above, subject to certain conditions, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not 3 Inc lud ing inves tmen ts made t h r o u gh foreign companies that are directly or ind i rec t ly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Senegal. 4 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Senegal that are directly or indirectly under fo re ign con trol and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Senegal of fo re ign companies. SENEGAL exceed CFAF 40 million. The repayment of loans not cons t i tu t ing a direct investment requires the special au thor iza t ion of the Minister of Economy and Finance if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. The Investment Code provides various facilities and benefits for approved foreign investments in Senegal. There are special facilities for export industries estab- lished in the industrial free trade zone. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require prior autho- rization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Import and export licenses for gold are issued by the M in is try of Commerce. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of m a n u f a c t u r ed arti- cles con ta in ing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Brokers in precious metals require an authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance to conduct their business. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declara- tion. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold are sub- ject to a tax of 25 per cent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior authorization, and imports of ornamen ts require the prior advice of the Senegal Cor- poration for the Promotion of Art Hand icraf ts (Societe Senegalaise pour la Promotion de 1'Artisanat d'Ar t) and the Directorate of Mines and Geology. Changes during 1981 July 1. Circular Nos. 124 and 124 were issued, modi- fy ing the regulations on, respectively, the t im ing of pur- chases of foreign exchange for import payments and the length of forward exchange cover for imports. July 10. Law No. 81-50 modified certain provisions of the Investment Code. August 14. Decree-Law No. 81-817 spelled out new rules of entry for imports from all sources. 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position on December 32, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at SR 7.2345 = SDR 1. The official buying and selling rates for the pound ster- ling, the intervention currency, are determined on the basis of the daily calculation of the pound sterling-SDR rate on the previous business day. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates of the Seychelles Mone- ta ry Authority for the pound sterling were SR 11.8048 and SR 11.9232, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. The Mone- tary Authority charges a commission of 0.25 per cent for buying and 0.75 per cent for selling of pounds ster- ling and U.S. dollars. The commercial banks are autho- rized to deal in pounds sterling and other currencies at rates based on the daily calculations of SDR rates for the respective currencies. These rates are circulated daily to the commercial banks by the Monetary Authority. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Seychelles formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from January 3, 1978. Administration of Control and Prescription of Currency There is no exchange control, and there are no pre- scription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports, except where goods imported from South Africa are concerned. With this exception, most goods may be imported freely from any source under open general license. Payments for such transactions may be effected without the completion of application forms. A limited number of imports require a specific license, and the import of a few items is prohibited. Most imports are subject to duties, with a preferential schedule of rates applying to goods originating in Commonwealth, ACP, and EC countries. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles, and no limits are imposed on the provision of travel exchange. Travelers may take or send out of Seychelles any amount of domestic or foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports normally do not require licenses, but certain exports are subject to duties. Residents may export goods w i thout exchange control forma l i ty to any coun- t ry, except South Africa. Export proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be disposed of freely. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital payments. Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital are allowed without limit. Whether or not they have been granted temporary residential status, non- nationals are permitted to repatriate their surplus earn- ings without limit. New investment outside Seychelles by permanent resi- dents and by companies and other organizations operat- ing in Seychelles is not subject to any limitation. For- eign investment (whether portfolio, direct investment, increased investment in existing entities in the form of loans, or equity capital) is free of restrictions. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, but dealings in gold bul- lion are restricted to authorized dealers. Two com- memorative gold coins in denominations of SR 1,500 and SR 1,000 have been issued and are legal tender. Changes during 1981 January 1. Customs duties on motor vehicles were raised by between 20 and 40 per cent, and smaller tariff increases were introduced on other luxury goods. March 16. The value of the Seychelles rupee was changed from SR 8.3197 = SDR 1 to SR 7.2345 = SDR 1, representing a revaluation by 15 per cent in terms of the SDR. 378 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leonean Leone, which is pegged to the SDR at Le 1 = SDR 0.731566. The Bank of Sierra Leone deals only in pounds sterling, the in te rven t ion currency, and stands ready in transactions with commercial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for s ter l ing at the daily rate between the leone and the pound s te r l ing deter- mined on the basis of the SDR-pound s ter l ing rate, subject to a m ax imum commission of 1 per cent on either side. The au thor ized b anks in Sierra Leone base the ir rates for other currencies on current London ma rket rates. On December 31, 1981 the banks' buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. do l lar were US$0.86055 and US$0.84263, respectively, per Le 1. Sierra Leone avails itself of wider margins. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Min- istry of Finance, but the day-to-day adm in is t ra t ion of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone. A Foreign Exchange Budget Advisory Com- mittee, comprising representatives of the M in is t ry of Finance, the Comptroller of Customs, and the Bank of Sierra Leone de term ines the size of the import budget for each year and sets priorities for issuance of import licenses. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Trade and Indus t ry. Au tho- rized commercial banks are perm i t ted to sell foreign exchange for perm i t ted imports and for travel expenses w i th in specified limits; beyond these limits, applica- tions must be made to the Bank of Sierra Leone. Prescription of Currency Transactions w i th all countries are subject to exchange control. Cer ta in settlements with the Peo- ple's Republic of China must be channeled through clearing accounts established under the terms of a bilateral payments agreement. Paymen ts for imports from other countries may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account, in the currency of the exporting coun try, in sterling, or in U.S. dollars. Settle- men ts w i th the Central Bank of West A f r i c an States ( for Ben in, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta) and The Gamb ia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mau r i tan ia, and Nigeria are normally made through the West A f r i c an Clearing House. Receipts f rom exports other than d iamonds to countries other th an the People's Repub l ic of China may be obtained in leones f rom an Ex ternal Account, in the currency of the impor t ing coun try, or in any spec- ified currency.1 Receipts f rom all exports must be 1 Au s t r i an sch i l l ings, Belgian f r an c s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche m a rk, French f rancs, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lders, Norweg ian kroner, Po r tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. obtained in the currency of the importing country or in any other specified currency, through the account of the Bank of Sierra Leone in the impor t ing country, or if there is no such account, through an account in a bank in the importing coun try nom ina ted by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Settlements w i th Nam ib ia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside Sierra Leone are designated Ex ternal Accounts. Residents of fo rmer Sterling Area countries 2 may m a i n t a in Sterling Area Accounts denom ina ted in leones. In add i t ion, there are Blocked Accounts, to wh ich are credited amounts due to nonresidents that may not be rem i t ted abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Nam ib ia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Imports are effected w i th in an annual im- port budget, and all imports requ i re specific import licenses. Imports of rice can be made only by the Sierra Leone Produce Marke t ing Board and licensed dealers. Authorized banks have limited au tho r i ty to grant fo r e ign exchange for import payments; the approval of the Bank of Sierra Leone is requ i red where the payment exceeds Le 10,000 for each ind iv idual license. The Bank of Sierra Leone takes the availability of fore ign exchange into account in considering appli- cations. There has been an accumu la t ion of arrears on import payments. All imports not specifically exempted by the Minister of Finance are subject to an invoice en t ry tax and to a special licensing fee, both at 12 per cent of the c.i.f. value. The rates are 5 per cent for impor ts f rom coun- tries belonging to the Economic Commun i ty of West A f r i c an States. A charge of 2.5 per cent is imposed on all import licenses, except for imports of raw materials. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents requ ire approval, which for many current transac t ions is given freely. Remittances of ea rn ings by fore ign nationals are limited, in principle, to Le 8,000 or 40 per cent of gross taxable annual wages and salaries, whichever is lower, but the Bank of Sierra Leone may perm it the t rans fer of larger amounts. Insurance on impor ted goods must be taken out w i th in su rance companies incorporated in Sierra Leone. Buy ing commission is not normally permitted to exceed 2 per cent, and bank charges, financing commission, and other financial charges on imports also are not norma l ly allowed. 2 Sierra Leone's regu la t ions still provide a d e f in i t ion of the Sterling Area; the definition includes Sierra Leone and excludes South Africa. 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE There are arrears on payments for current invisibles, including interest on official debt. For travel abroad, residents are entitled to a basic exchange allowance of Le 500 a person a calendar year. Applications for larger amounts are considered on an individual basis. In addition to the basic exchange allowance, travelers may take out, regardless of desti- nation, Le 20 in leone notes and the equivalent of Le 50 in foreign currency notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency banknotes, including sterling notes, declared by them when entering Sierra Leone. Travel abroad is subject to a travel tax of 5 per cent of the price of the ticket, payable at the time of pur- chase of the ticket. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of some commodities, the expor- tation of which is restricted to certain s ta te corpora- tions, export licenses are granted by the Ministry of Trade and Industry for the export of all commodities to all countries except Nam ib ia and South Afr ica. The proceeds of exports, including diamonds and other minerals, must be received in the currency of the importing country or in any other specified currency agreed to by the Bank of Sierra Leone; the proceeds must be received by the exporter and sold to an au tho- rized bank in Sierra Leone within three months f rom the date of export, unless permission to do otherwise is obtained. The buying and exporting of diamonds is carried out by locally licensed firms and by several foreign companies. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Subject to declaration upon entry, persons enter- ing Sierra Leone may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes. The importation of domestic banknotes is limited to Le 20 for each traveler. Capital Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone require permission from the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad. Investments by nonresidents may be repatriated at any time, together with profits, provided that exchange control permission was obtained initially for the investment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Act of 1954 imposes control on the issue and transfer of securities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires per- mission if either the person acquiring the securities or the person for whom he is nominee is resident outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be trans- ferred to a nonresident. Capital in respect of securities 380 registered in Sierra Leone may not be t rans fe r red abroad without permission. Where permission has been given for securities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident abroad, the company is usually required to obtain bank cer t if ica t ion of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. The Development Ordi- nance of 1960 provides for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domestic companies under tak ing indus tr ial or agr icu l tural activities that are needed for the development of the coun t ry. Non- citizens are prohibited from owning or controlling cer- tain types of business. Residents of Sierra Leone must sell their foreign exchange holdings to an authorized dealer. Exemption is granted for authorized dealers, diplomats, and holders of sterling assets held prior to June 24, 1972 for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Exempted securities may be sold outside the former Sterling Area (see footnote 2) and any income the re f rom may be retained in the former Sterling Area or reinvested in other Sterling Area securities. Any certificate of securities purchased with the proceeds of the sale of securities exempted under this permission is exempt f rom deposit require- ments. Any assets held outside the fo rmer Sterling Area by any foreign national temporar i ly resident in Sierra Leone also are exempt from surrender and deposit requirements, provided that exemption has been claimed and granted by an authorized dealer or by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for num isma t ic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may f ree ly purchase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coins. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, gold producers, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad; residents must declare and make avail- able to the Government gold held in the form of bars or coin. Imports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require individual import licenses, which are not nor- mally granted. The Bank of Sierra Leone is the only official exporter of gold. Travelers do not require a license to take out personal jewe lry if the va lue of the total gold and platinum content does not exceed Le 200. Exports of unworked gold are not subject to export tax. Changes during 1981 January 1. The import du ty on petroleum oil and oils obtained from b i tum inous m inera ls was reduced to 8 per cent effective January 1, 1981 (Pub l ic Notice 11 of 1981). January 1. In connection with the in troduc t ion of the import license programs for 1981, it was announced ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution that importation of all goods would be subject to the issuance of a specific import license by the Ministry of Trade and Industry, on application f rom registered importers. To this end, importers of raw materials, machinery, and spare parts for industries were required to give details of their requirements for 1981. SIERRA LEONE 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Singapore is the Singapore Dollar. The value of the Singapore dollar is determined on the basis of its fixed relationship to a trade-weighted basket of currencies representing Singapore's major trad ing partners. The exchange rate of the Singapore dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the in te rven t ion currency, is de term ined in the foreign exchange marke t. The buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on Decem- ber 31, 1981 were S$2.0477 and S$2.0480, respec- tively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are established on the basis of the daily rate for the U.S. do l lar and their cross rates in in te rna t ional markets. Banks are free to deal spot and forward in all curren- cies. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and w i thout charge, in Singapore and Brunei. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Singapore fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control There are no exchange control forma l i t ies but the Mone tary Au thor i ty of Singapore retains responsibility for exchange control matters. The Department of Trade of the Ministry of Trade and Indus try admin- isters import and export controls; the Controller and Registrar of Imports and Exports is empowered to approve imports and exports. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts There is no distinction between accounts of residents and nonresidents of Singapore. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments V i r tua l ly all imports are permitted freely. A few imports are controlled for health or security reasons. All imports originating in South Afr ica or any territory administered by it are proh ib i ted. Import licenses are required for the following items, irrespective of origin: ( 1) rice (excluding rice b r a n ), refined sugar, chlorine, air-conditioning machines not exceeding 9,000 KCAL /H (excluding air-conditioning machines for motor vehi- c le s ); and (2) all goods originating in or consigned f rom Albania, the German Democratic Republic, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Viet Nam. License applications for goods under the second category must be submitted through an inter- mediary ( In t raco L td . ), which levies a surcharge of 0.5 per cent on the c.i.f. value of imports f rom the specified countries. 382 Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remit- tances to nonresidents of d iv idends, interest, and profits may be made free ly. Resident and non res ident trav- elers may take out any amount in fo re ign or Singapore bankno tes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain textiles of Singapore origin to Belgium, Canada, Denmark, F in land, France, the Fed- eral Repub l ic of Ge rmany, Greece, I re land, Italy, Lux- embourg, the Ne the r lands, Norway, Sweden, the United K ingdom, and the United States are subject to quanti- tative restriction. Exports of a few other items are restricted irrespective of des t ina t ion. Other commodi- ties do not require an export license. Export proceeds need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles need not be sur- rendered and may be disposed of f ree ly. Resident and nonresident travelers may b r ing in any amount in for- eign bankno tes and coin, inc lud ing Singapore gold coin. Capital There are no restrictions on capital t rans fe rs. Gov- ernment approval is requ ired for investment in resi- dential and other properties ( inc lud ing vacant land) other than those zoned or approved for indus tr ial or commercial use. A foreigner may, however, freely purchase a res iden t ial un it w i th in a bu i ld ing of six or more stories and in an approved condom in ium develop- ment w i thout such approval. With regard to other residential properties, foreigners who make an economic contribution to Singapore w i ll be given favorab le con- sideration for purchase of these properties for their own occupation and, in the case of fo re ign companies, for the accommodation of the ir senior personnel. Singapore banks that have been licensed to operate an Asian Currency Un i t, and thus to operate in the Asian dollar marke t, may free ly accept deposits in cur- rencies other than Singapore dollars. Gold There is a f r ee gold ma rket in Singapore, to which residents and nonres iden ts have free access. Both resi- dent and nonresident ind iv idua ls and companies are permitted to import, hold, nego t ia te, and export gold freely; imports and exports require neither exchange control approval nor import or export licenses, and gold can be dealt with freely by any person in Singa- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution pore. There are two distinct gold markets, the physical market and the fu tu res marke t. The delivery points for the physical market can be either in Singapore or in London, with appropriate price ad jus tmen ts for the cost of transportation and insurance. The price of gold used for the manu fac tu re of orna- ments is fixed by the Singapore Chinese Gold and Silver Merchants Association. On December 31, 1981 this price was about S$ 1,200 per tael for 24-karat gold and S$l,130 per tael for 22-karat gold. Changes during 1981 May 27. Petroleum and primary products were removed from the Monetary Authority of Singapore's SINGAPORE rediscounting scheme for local exports; re-exports were also removed f rom the scheme. September 28. The 20 per cent m in imum margin requirement for financing re la t ing to imports and inven- tories was abolished, together with the 90-day limit on both forms of credit. In addition, finance houses were no longer required to restrict total trade or inventory financing to 10 per cent of total assets, or limit credit to a single borrower to 15 per cent of published capital funds for trade financing or 30 per cent for stock financing. 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands Dollar, issued by the Solomon Islands Monetary Authority. The exchange rate for the Solomon Islands dollar is determined on the basis of a relationship between the Solomon Islands dollar and a weighted basket of the currencies in which the Solomon Islands' external trade is settled. The Monetary Authority pro- vides quotations for the Australian dollar and the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates were $A 0.9980 and $A 0.9970, respectively, per SI$1, and US$1.1256 and US$1.1244, respectively, per SI$ 1. Exchange transactions in other currencies by com- mercial banks in the Solomon Islands are based upon quotations received from commercial banks in Australia. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Solomon Islands formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement on July 24, 1979. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Monetary Authority by means of the Exchange Control (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, which came into force on March 1, 1977. The Monetary Authority delegates extensive powers to commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. All persons residing in the Solomon Islands are regarded as permanent residents for exchange control purposes, unless they have been granted temporary resi- dent status by an authorized dealer or by the Monetary Authority. Applications for temporary resident status are normally approved if the person is a citizen of a foreign country who intends to reside in the Solomon Islands for a period of less than four years or has resided in the Solomon Islands for over four years but who can produce evidence of firm intention to resume permanent residence overseas in the near future. Ownership of real property or a business indicates permanent residential status, regardless of the duration of residence in the Solomon Islands. However, temporary resident status does not release a person from the obligation to comply with all provisions of the exchange control regulations. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons resident outside the Solomon Islands, which are expressed in a foreign currency, may only be met by payments in foreign cur- rency. Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in Solomon Islands dollars from an account of an overseas bank with a bank in the Solomon Islands. Nonresident Accounts The Monetary Authority permits nonresidents upon request to open nonresident accounts with authorized 384 dealers, and balances on such accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Approval is required for the credit- ing of these accounts. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for imports. Authorized dealers are permitted to approve most trans- actions without reference to the Monetary Authority. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for payments for services and remittances of dividends, profits, and other earnings accruing to overseas residents f rom companies in the Solomon Islands. Permanent residents are permitted to purchase foreign exchange for payment of all types of invisibles if supporting documents are provided. Trans- fers by postal order to persons residing permanently out- side the Solomon Islands are permitted, provided that the total amount transferred does not exceed SI$100 a week. Approval is normally given for the purchase of foreign currency for travel purposes. Applications for travel funds must be lodged with an authorized dealer, and applicants are required to present their passports and passage or flight tickets. Requests for unusually large amounts of foreign exchange are referred to the Monetary Authority. Travelers may not take out Solomon Islands currency notes and coin, in excess of SI$250, without the approval of the exchange con- trol authorities, which is not normally given. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents may export goods without exchange con- trol forma l i ty provided that they comply w i th the terms of the General Authority issued by the Monetary Authority. The essential conditions of this General Authority are that payment for goods exported is received within six months before or a f ter the date of export, that the export price is reasonable, and that the proceeds are sold to an authorized dealer. Where exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the General Au thor i ty, they must apply to the Monetary Authority for a Specific Authority. Authority is not needed for goods under SI$250 in value in any one consignment or for certain exempted cate- gories of goods, including most kinds of personal effects of passengers. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by means of a sale to an authorized dealer. Overseas residents visiting the Solo- mon Islands may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Outward transfers of capital are allowed without limit. Persons who have been granted temporary resi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dential status by an authorized dealer or the Monetary Authority are permitted to repa tr ia te their surplus earnings without limit. New investment abroad by permanent residents or by companies and other organizations operating in the Solomon Islands is subject to certain limitations. Direct investment overseas is permitted where it is likely to be of benefit to the Solomon Islands. In the case of port- folio investments, the approval of the Monetary Authority is needed prior to the acquisition or disposal of foreign securities" by a permanent resident. Approval for the acquisition of certain types of securities that are not available in the Solomon Islands is usually granted. Restrictions are not no rma l ly imposed on the disposal of foreign securities acquired prior to March 1, 1977. Approval by the Monetary Au thor i ty is required for a resident to borrow funds f rom or to issue equity capi- tal to a nonresident. The Solomon Islands branch of a company or firm incorporated overseas requires approval by the Monetary Au thor i ty before it may borrow funds from a nonresident, inc lud ing the branch's SOLOMON ISLANDS overseas head office. Where initial or increased foreign investment is concerned, the Na t ional Investment Council in the Prime Minister's Office must also give its approval. Gold Solomon Islanders alone are granted a license to pan for alluvial gold. Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit issued by the Ministry of Na tu ral Resources to mine, buy, or export gold. The Monetary Authority is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet under taken any such transactions. Changes during 1981 March 3. The Solomon Island dollar was depreciated by about 6 per cent against the Australian dollar. April 13. The Solomon Island Monetary Authority began quoting exchange rates for the U.S. dollar, in addition to quotations for the Australian dollar. 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali Shilling, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. Somalia maintains a dual exchange market system under which foreign exchange transactions, other than for imports of specified essential goods, projects financed from foreign sources, specified receipts from foreign embassies, and certain foreign companies and non- resident accounts denominated in Somali shillings, take place at an exchange rate of So. Sh. 12.59 = US$1; settlements in respect of the other transactions take place at the previous exchange rate of So. Sh. 6.295 = US$1.1 On December 31, 1981 the official buying and selling rates in the first market were So. Sh. 6.2327 and So. Sh. 6.3573, respectively, per US$1, and the official buying and selling rates in the second market were So. Sh. 12.4654 and So. Sh. 12.7146, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank of Somalia carries out exchange transactions in certain "convertible" currencies,2 taking into account rates in European exchange markets. The exchange market in Somalia comprises the Central Bank and the sole commercial bank, which operates as the authorized exchange dealer in respect of transactions in foreign currencies. The authorized exchange dealer generally does not conduct forward exchange trans- actions on behalf of the public, although this is not prohibited. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce is the principal govern- ment agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade and exchange controls. The Central Bank is authorized to determine the rates at which foreign currencies are to be negotiated, to establish a list of "convertible" currencies (see footnote 2), and to appoint authorized exchange dealers. The Central Bank may also implement the trade and exchange con- trols on behalf of the Ministry of Commerce. An Advisory Commission, consisting of nine members, representing various ministries, the Central Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, advises the Ministry of Commerce on policy questions relating to the regula- tion and control of foreign economic transactions. The National and Local Licensing Committees representing the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, decide on applications for licenses for imports and exports and for transfers in respect of services. The !On February 27, 1982 remittances to accounts held by foreign missions and transactions relating to projects f inanced f rom outside sources were made ineligible for conversion through the previous exchange rate. 2 Deutsche ma rk, Djibouti francs, French francs, Italian lire, Kuwa i ti dinars, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. 386 Central Bank grants licenses for certain routine in- visibles. Transfers in respect of capital are authorized by the National Licensing Committee, unless they are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the U.S.S.R. 'are made through bilateral clearing accounts denominated in pounds sterling. Settlements w i th all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies (see footnote 2 ); however, residents are not permitted to make settlements w i th Israel or South Afr ica. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in Somali shillings may be opened with the authorized exchange dealer by Somali nationals residing abroad, by foreign nationals and foreign institutions hav ing d ip loma t ic status in Somalia, and by foreign companies engaged in mineral prospect- ing or consultancy services. External accounts in U.S. dollars may be opened by Somali workers abroad and, under certain conditions, by exporters of livestock as well as other Somali nationals. The use of funds held in such accounts is subject to specific exchange control regulations. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. State agencies are responsible for imports of most commodities; private importers can open letters of credit for import items not controlled exclusively by public importing agencies. The import by state agencies of a few com- modities from all sources is temporarily prohibited for balance of payments reasons,3 and some commodities are not being imported at present (e.g., soaps and detergents, rubber and plastic footwear, and bleached or unbleached cotton c lo th). Ind iv idual licenses are required for all commodities. Certain commodities are liberalized when originating in EC countries. The state trading organization, the National Agency for Trade (ENC ), is responsible for the import and distri- bution of cer ta in commodities received under aid pro- grams. It also is the sole agent for the impor ta t ion of animal and vegetable oils and fa ts, corn, rice, wheat flour, coffee, tea, sugar, pasta, and certain other commodities. The Iraqi-Somali Oil Refinery is respon- sible for the import of crude petroleum, while the National Petroleum Agency is the only importer of other fuels and fuel products, batteries, rubber tubes and tires, and fire extinguishers and related materials. The Pharmaceutical Agency is the only agency entitled 3 Bu t te r, cheese, tomatoes, nonalcoholic beverages, ready-made clothing, textiles and related materials, electrical appliances and parts, and small passenger automobiles. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to import medicines, while the Agency for Construction Materials is the sole importer of construction materials. The franco valuta system has been abolished, under which licenses were issued f ree ly to private importers who had ob ta ined fore ign exchange f rom sources out- side Somalia (ma in ly f rom Somali nationals working abroad) in order to pay for imports. The new arrange- ment calls for all pr iva te importers to apply for import licenses, which are issued on a case-by-case basis; qualified importers can purchase fo re ign exchange from the authorized dealer. An advance deposit equal to 100 per cent of value is required to open letters of credit for private sector imports; the deposit is re ta ined up to the settlement date of the letter of credit. If goods imported d i f fer in we igh t, quan t i ty, or value by more than 10 per cent f rom the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. All imports other than those made by the Government, diplomatic and consular agencies, and in terna t ional organizations are subject to a statistical and adm in is tra t ive tax of 20 per cent in addition to customs duties levied on the c.i.f. value of most imports. Payments for imports are authorized by the Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer on the basis of the import license and other documentation. Provided that the Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transac t ion meets the legal require- ments, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the third busi- ness day following the receipt of the application or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the applicant. The Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance payments for imports (i.e., payment for merchandise that has not actually passed through customs at the time of paymen t ), pro- vided that documentary evidence of actual shipment is produced. Advance payments for imports without documentary evidence of actual shipment are not permitted. Payments for imports f rom neighboring areas4 are permitted only by letter of credit and by cash against documents. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. Payments for current invisibles are subject to licensing, mainly to prevent unauthorized capital movements; norma l ly, genuine requirements are met, provided that balance of payments considerations permit. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are normally allowed up to 50 per cent. The Central Bank may grant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified limits. The foreign exchange allocation for pilgrimages is So. Sh. 5,000 a person. For tourist travel by residents, 4 Aden, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, and Mukawwar Island. SOMALIA the allocation is So. Sh. 1,000 a person a year, which is applicable to all countries, except Canada, Japan, and the United States; for these three countries, the allow- ance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. The foreign exchange allocation for business travel and travel for medical reasons is So. Sh. 1,000 a t r ip (So. Sh. 1,500 for Canada, Japan, and the Un i ted S ta tes). Applica- tions for all other invisibles are considered on their merits by the Licensing Committees in Mogadiscio, Hargeisa, and Burao. Nonresident travelers may take out w i thout authoriza- tion any fore ign exchange which they b rought in and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coin. Resident travelers may take out without au thor iza t ion So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coin and up to the equivalent of So. Sh. 200 in foreign bankno tes and coin. A currency declaration is required f rom all persons leaving the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. The export of a few commodities to any destination may be prohibited for reasons of public policy. An export license is required for all other com- modities. Bananas are exported only by the National Banana Board. The ENC is the sole agent for the expor- ta t ion of incense, myrrh, gum arabic, and charcoal. The export of salt, dried fish, and hides and skins also is a public sector monopoly. All export proceeds must be repa tr ia ted, declared, and offered for sale to the Central Bank or to the authorized exchange dealer w i th in five business days a f ter their receipt. For exports other than those made und er letter of credit arrangemen ts, an advance pay- ment deposit of 30 per cent of the va lue of exports is required. There is a 25 per cent tax on exports of livestock. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be repatriated, de- clared, and offered for sale to the Cen tral Bank or to the authorized exchange dealer w i th in five business days af ter their receipt. Nonresidents may freely br ing in w i th them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali bankno tes and coin; they must make a currency declaration when en ter ing the coun try. Resident travelers may bring in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali bankno tes and coin and are obliged, upon arr iva l, to declare and offer to surrender any fore ign exchange or gold they br ing in. Capital Capital transactions are subject to l icens ing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Inves tment Law of February 1960, as amended in J anu a ry 1977. In accordance with the provisions of that law, foreign enterprises must be registered with the Directorate of Planning and Coordination. For "productive" enter- 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA prises (as defined in the Foreign Investment Law ), profits may be transferred abroad freely up to a limit of 30 per cent a year of the capital invested; the unused portion of this t ran s fer right is cumulative for three years. Should profits in any one year be less than 30 per cent, the t rans fer right for the succeeding three years is increased correspondingly. The capital itself may be transferred abroad beginning five years after the date of registration. Profits resulting f rom other foreign investments may be transferred abroad up to a limit of 10 per cent a year of the capital invested, and the capital itself may be transferred abroad over a minimum period of three years, beginning seven years after the date of registration. The Ministry of Finance, upon the recommendation of other ministries concerned, may extend total or partial exemption from import and export taxes, excise duty, income tax, and municipal tax to any enterprise for a period not exceeding five years. Enterprises registered in or after March 1968 must, to the largest possible extent, employ residents, and each enterprise must submit to the Committee on Foreign Investments a program for the substitution of nonresidents by resi- dent employees. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the permission of the Central Bank; such permission is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down within one month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold are exempt from customs duty when originating in EC countries, and imports f rom elsewhere are subject to a 10 per cent duty. Changes during 1981 January 1. The advance paymen ts deposit require- ment for exports other than those made under letters of credit was raised from 15 per cent to 30 per cent of the value. April 1. One public enterprise agency for exports ( the Livestock Development Agency) and two for imports (the Agency for Textiles and Household Appliances and the National Agency for Building Materials) were abolished. June 30. Changes were made in ex is t ing arrangements and regulations as fo l lows: (a) effec t ive July 1, 1981, a dual exchange rate arrangement was established, under which the previous exchange rate of So. Sh. 6.295 = US$1 was limited to imports of specified essential goods; (b) effective July 1, 1981, licenses for imports ceased to be issued under the franco valuta system; and (c) beginning July 2, 1981 pr iva te impor ters were authorized to open letters of credit for import items not exclusively controlled by specified public enterprises. July I. Licensing comm i t tees were established in five ma in trad ing centers: Mogadiscio, Kismayo, Bosaso, Burao, and Hargeisa. July 1. A 25 per cent tax was imposed on livestock exports as an offset to w ind fa ll prof i ts from the devalua- tion of the Somali shilling on July 1, 1981. July 15. Subject to specific regulations on use, au thor iza t ion was granted for the opening of foreign currency accounts denominated in U.S. dollars by Somalis working abroad, livestock exporters up to a certain limit, and other Somali na t iona ls w i th foreign exchange earned abroad. September 30. It was announced that imports under the franco valuta system would be subject to a penalty of double the regular import du ty f rom October 1, 1981 through November 15, 1981, and that all such imports would be confiscated beginning November 16, 1981. October 18. A noninterest-bearing advance deposit of 100 per cent was required to open letters of credit for private sector imports; the deposit would be retained by the banks up to the settlement date of the letter of credit. 388 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of South Afr ica is the South African Rand. The authorities of South Africa do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions but inter- vene in the exchange market to affect the rates quoted by the commercial banks for the "commercial" rand. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1981 the commercial banks' spot rates for the U.S. dollar in transactions with the public were US$1.0464 buy ing and US$1.0444 selling, per R 1. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct fo rwa rd exchange operations. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover in U.S. dollars only for private sector transactions; such cover is given da i ly to authorized dealers based on an interest rate d i f fe ren t ial between the U.S. dollar and the rand. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. There is alsa a free ly floating "financial" rand, which is the local sale and redemption proceeds of South A f r ican securities and other investments in South Africa owned by nonresidents (other than former residents of South A f r i c a ), capital remittances by emigrants and immigrants, and approved ou tward capital transfers by residents. The rate for the financial rand is usually at a discount f rom the commercial rand rate; at the end of 1981, the discount was about 23.44 per cent, the middle closing rate on December 31 being US$0.80 per R 1. South A f r ica forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, as of September 15, 1973. Exchange Control Territory There are v i r tua l ly no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South Africa (defined for exchange control purposes as including South West A f r i c a ), Lesotho, and Swaziland, and these form, with the Republic of South Afr ica, a single exchange con- trol territory, the Rand Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Trea- sury, which has delegated this authority to the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has delegated much of its licensing powers to the authorized dealers. Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Import and Export acting on behalf of the Minister for Industries, Commerce, and Tourism. Exchange for licensed imports is made available by the authorized dealers upon proof of shipment or, where advance payment is proposed, upon presentation of other documen tary evidence, which must include the prior approval of the Reserve Bank.1 1 Au tho r ized dealers can pe rm i t, w i thout Reserve Bank approval, advance payment of up to 33Ys per cent of the ex - fac to ry cost of capital goods if such is the requirement of suppliers. Prescription of Currency All countries outside the Rand Monetary Area con- s t i tu te the Nonresident Area. The only settlement cur- rency accepted in all countries in the Rand Monetary Area is the rand .2 Settlements by residents of the Rand Monetary Area with the Nonresident Area, except Botswana and Zimbabwe, may be made in rand to and f rom a Nonresident Account and in any specified currency3 and, for outgoing payments only, in any fore ign currency.4 Settlements with Botswana may be made in rand to or from a local Botswana Account, in Botswana currency, in rand from a local Nonres ident Account to a Botswana Account ( for outgoing pay- men ts on ly ), in rand from a local Nonresident Account ( f or inward payments on ly ), or in any specified cur- rency ( for inward payments on ly ). Settlements with Zimbabwe may be made in rand to and from a local Zimbabwean account, in Zimbabwean currency, in rand f rom a local Nonresident Account to a Zimbabwean Account ( for outgoing payments on ly ), in rand f rom a local Nonresident Account ( for inward payments o n l y ), or in any specified currency ( for inward pay- ments on ly). Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of persons resident outside the Rand Mone tary Area are divided into Botswana Accounts, Zimbabwean Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, Financial Rand Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Botswana Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies ( inc lud ing banks) resident, domiciled, or registered in Botswana. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South Afr ican residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of Botswana currency and of any specified cur- rency, and with payments f rom local Nonresident or Botswana Accounts. They may be debited for pay- ments for exports to Botswana and other payments due by Botswana residents to South African residents, for payments to the account holder while temporarily resi- dent in South Africa for short periods, for payments to other local Botswana Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Botswana currency. 2 Lilangeni banknotes issued by Swaziland are f ree ly convertible into rand, at par, w i thout restriction at the Central Bank of Swaziland, but they are not legal tender in Sou th A f r ica. The same rules apply to maloti banknotes issued by Lesotho. Checks and other bills of exchange d rawn by Lesotho and Swazi residents for payment w i th in the Rand Mone tary Area must be denom ina ted in rand. 3 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian f r a n c s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Fiji dollars, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Malagasy francs, Malawi kwacha, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Seychelles rupees, Spanish pesetas, Sri L anka rupees, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, U.S. dollars, zai'res, and Zambian kwacha. 4 Foreign currency is any currency or payment in s t rument for cur- rency other than a currency that is legal tender in a coun try in the Rand Monetary Area. 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Zimbabwean Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies (including banks) resident, domiciled, or registered in Zimbabwe. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South Afr ican residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of Zimbabwean currency and of any specified currency, and with payments from local Nonresident or Zimbabwean Accounts. They may be debited for payments for exports to Zimbabwe and other paymen ts due by Zimbabwean residents to South A f r ican residents, for payments to the account holder while temporarily resident in South Africa for short periods, for paymen ts to other local Zimbabwean Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Zimbabwean currency. Nonresident Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies ( inc lud ing banks) resident, domiciled, or registered outside Botswana, Zimbabwe, and the Rand Monetary Area. They may be credited with all autho- rized payments by South Afr ican residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of specified currency, and with payments f rom other Nonresident Accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to South Afr ican residents for any purpose; for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, i.e., by t rans fer to a local Nonresident, Botswana, or Zimbabwean Account, or for remittance to any country outside the Rand Monetary Area; for the cost of pur- chases of any fore ign currency; and for payments to the account holder while temporarily resident in South Africa for short periods. Financial Rand Accounts are the accounts of non- residents of the Rand Monetary Area, other than emi- grants f rom that Area, to which exchange control restric- tions have been applied. Such accounts are ma in ta ined with authorized banks. They must be credited with the local sale and redemption proceeds of South African securities and other investments in South Afr ica owned by nonresidents, excluding former residents of South A f r ica, and by imm igran ts within three years of arrival. Dealers on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange are per- mitted to quote prices for financial rand, and its mem- bers are permitted to buy and sell financial rand as agents, acting on behalf of nonresidents. Authorized banks are freely permitted to transfer financial rand balances from one Financial Rand Account on their books to another, on their own books or on the books of another authorized bank. Funds in these accounts may be used freely for reinvestment in locally quoted securi- ties (which may be exported and sold abroad) or for acquiring quoted central government, municipal, or pub- lic utility stocks. On application and approval, financial rand may be used by nonresidents for the purchase of other assets. The maturity proceeds of holdings of five- year nonresident bonds and seven-year, 6 per cent Securi- ties Rand Bonds, previously issued by the Treasury, can be remitted abroad in foreign currency. The local sale proceeds of South Afr ican securities held by immigrants 390 prior to their arr ival in South A f r ica, or acquired abroad within three years of their arrival, are also credited to Financial Rand Accounts, with the exception of assets of persons who previously have been South African residents. Blocked Accounts are the accounts of emigrants from the Rand Monetary Area to which exchange control restrictions have been applied. They must be credited w i th any cash held at the time of depa r tu re and with the proceeds of any other South A f r ican asset held at the time of departure and subsequently sold. Such f u n ds may not be transferred from South A f r ica or to ano ther Blocked Account in South A f r ica, but may be re ta ined on deposit with an authorized dealer, used with- in certain limits for the holder's living expenses while v is i t ing South A f r ica, or for other specified payments to residents, or be invested in any securities that are quoted locally; such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad. Imports and Import Payments Ap a rt f rom the items subject to specific impo rt licens- ing, import licenses are required for 31 broad product categories, which are not in te rchangeab le among groups. All impor ters of goods requ ir ing import licenses must be registered w i th the Director of Import and Export. The licenses are valid for impor ts f rom any coun try. Imports f ree of license include ( 1) all goods impor ted f rom Bo tswana, Lesotho, or Swaz i land and (2) all goods imported f rom Malawi and Zimbabwe that were grown, produced, or m a n u f a c t u r ed in those countries, with the exception of sugar f rom Swaziland and tea f rom Malawi and Zimbabwe. The Import Control Regu la t ions for 1981 d is t ingu ish between the fo l low ing broad categories of imports: (1) goods that may be imported without an import license; (2) goods for which licenses will be granted to meet the "full reasonable requirements" of importers; and ( 3) goods that may be imported only under license and for which the precise na ture, volume, and va lue are specified. An importer is automatically gran ted exchange to pay for the import upon presenting to his bank the necessary consignment documents (proof of importa- t i o n ), and an import license where required. Payments prior to the date of shipment or dispatch are not nor- mally allowed except with prior approval or special au thor iza t ion by the Reserve Bank (see foo tno te 1). With cer ta in exceptions, imports are subject to a general sales tax of 4 per cent.5 Payments for Invisibles Au thor i ty is delegated to the authorized dealers to approve certain current payments for invisibles with- out l im i ta t ion and for others up to established limits. 5 A 10 per cent su rcha rge a f f e c t i ng about 60 per cent of impo r ts was in troduced on Feb rua ry 11, 1982, and a general sales tax was raised f rom 4 per cent to 5 per cent on March 1, 1982. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Applications for amoun ts in excess of these limits are considered on their mer i ts by the Reserve Bank. For cu r rent income paymen ts, such as declared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South Afr ica, approval is given by the authorized dealers without ref- erence to the Reserve Bank, provided that the relative royalty agreement was approved by the Department of Industries and the Reserve Bank, and the profits or divi- dends to be remitted by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries are based on profits earned a f t er Decem- ber 31, 1974 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit fac i l i t ies. Favorable consideration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income derived f rom securities acquired with blocked funds or f inanc ial rand, or otherwise held by nonresidents is freely transferab le at the official market ra te of exchange to the owner's country of residence. Limited amoun ts of exchange to pay for membership fees, f am i ly ma in tenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a year is R 4,000 for an adu lt and R 2,000 for a child under 12. Separately, there is an annual basic exchange allocation of R 1,500 for an adult (R 750 for a child under 12) for travel to Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe, and the Indian Ocean Islands. In addition to the tourist allowances, au tho- rized dealers may grant allowances for business trips overseas at a rate not exceeding R 250 a day, with a max imum of R 7,500 in a calendar year. The separate applicable allowance for business trips to the neighbor- ing territories mentioned above is R 3,000 a year, at a rate not exceeding R 200 a day. Residents leaving South A f r ica for destinations out- side the Rand Monetary Area may take the fu ll appli- cable allowance in foreign banknotes. The amount of South A f r i c an Reserve Bank notes, however, may not exceed R 200, but these are not regarded as be ing part of the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa within 12 months af ter arrival may take w i th them up to R 200 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes which they brought into the coun t ry or obtained from the disposal of instruments of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South A f r ica. These limitations on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of contract workers r e tu rn ing to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take with them reasonable amounts in banknotes. There are no limitations on the export of domestic currency to Lesotho and Swaziland. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in relatively short supply, or for which domestic prices are subs tan t ia l ly lower than those obtainable overseas, require licenses irrespective of destination (with the exception of exports to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swazi- SOUTH AFRICA l a n d ). Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to destinations other than the United Kingdom, any Commonwealth country, any British colony, protec- torate, or trust territory, and the United States. The re-export of imported goods to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, other than Botswana, is con- trolled to prevent commodity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Afr ica and surrendered w i th in six mon ths from the date of shipment or seven days f rom the da te of accrual. Exporters may grant credit up to 12 months, pro- vided the credit is necessary in the particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or to capture a new export market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days from the date of accrual, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry f rom countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, residents and nonresidents may b r ing in R 200 in South Afr ican Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the import of domestic cur- rency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Capital* All inward loan t rans fe rs require specific approval,7 while inward transfers through commercial rand for investment in equity capital are freely permitted. For- eign exchange accruing to residents f rom capital trans- fers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents to destinations outside the Rand Monetary Area require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled firms is subject to limitation. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South A f r ican (or other) shares on foreign stock exchanges are gen- erally not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 through financial rand for each shareholder, to allow South African residents to exercise rights arising from existing holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South African stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Appli- 6 For exchange control purposes, a nonresident is defined as a person whose normal place of residence or domicile is outside the Rand Monetary Area. Securities are defined as inc lud ing not only quo ted stocks, shares, debentures, and rights but also unquo ted shares in public companies, shares in private companies, gove rnmen t, mun ic ipa l, and public u t i l i ty stocks, nonresident-owned mo r tgage bonds or participations in mortgage bonds, and national savings certificates. The terms "scrip" and "share certificates" include any tempo ra ry or substitute documents of title, such as letters of allotment, option certificates, balance receipts, and any other receipts for scrip. 7 Approval is generally given for borrowing abroad w i th a m a t u r i ty of at least six months by domestic en t rep reneu rs, except for p rope r ty development, speculation, or consumer credit. Au thor ized dealers generally are permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of South African foreign trade and other approved purposes. 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA cations by South African residents to retain in, or trans- fer to, countries outside the Rand Monetary Area funds for bona fide long-term investment in specific develop- ment projects or for the expansion of existing projects that are owned or controlled by South Africans are considered by the Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits. Immigrants are required to furnish the exchange con- trol authorities with a complete return of their foreign assets and liabilities at the time of their arrival. Any transfers of foreign assets may take place through the medium of financial rand and may be retransferred abroad through the same channel within the first three years after arrival. However, any funds retransferred abroad by means of the financial rand cannot be returned to the Republic of South Afr ica thereafter through the medium of financial rand. The proceeds of the sale of South African securities by nonresidents of South Africa to residents must be credited to Financial Rand Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The following payments related to nonresident capital may be made by the authorized dealers at the official market rate of exchange without reference to the Reserve Bank: trans- fers to nonresidents of South Africa of the proceeds on ma tur i ty of government, municipal, and public utility bonds and national savings certificates (except national savings certificates issued on October 1, 1974), provided that they were registered in the name of the nonresi- dent transferee (who was not an em igran t) prior to March 30, 1978 and were held continuously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; and transfers to nonresident owners of any balance of up to R 50 remaining from the reinvestment of financial rand balances. Emigrant families are entitled to the normal travel allowance, at the rate for the commercial rand, and are permitted to remit up to R 100,000 (R 50,000 for single persons) in the form of financial rand. Requests for capital transfers at the commercial rand exchange rate by emigrants who are disabled or over 60 years of age are considered within the limit of R 30,000 a fam i ly or R 15,000 a single person. Any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount must be credited to a Blocked Account. The total net income earned f rom an emigrant's blocked assets may be transferred at the com- mercial rand rate of exchange. An emigrant fam i ly or a person can export one motor vehicle, with a maximum value of R 20,000, provided that it was purchased at least one year prior to emigration, and can export other household and personal effects up to a value of R 20,000 for each family, provided that such goods, other than clothing, have been in the emigrant's possession for a period of not less than one year. The Reserve Bank approves transfers of repayments at maturity to nonresident holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or before June 16, 1961. 392 Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or approved loan account balances, of current profits earned af ter December 31, 1974, and dividends declared on profits from trad ing earned a f ter December 31, 1974, provided that the remittance does not involve the exces- sive use of local credit facilities. The physical export f rom South Afr ica of nonresident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants on their departure. There are two ways in which holders of financial rand can repatriate funds from South A f r i c a: ( 1) by export- ing South African shares bought on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, provided that they have been restric- tively endorsed, and selling them outside South Afr ica at a price which may involve a prem ium or a discount on the South Afr ican quo ta t ion; and (2) by selling the funds to another nonresident for foreign currency. Gold Residents of South Afr ica may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South A f r ica for num isma t ic and investment purposes. With this exception, residents of South Africa other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank; the approval au thor i ty has been delegated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a trave ler (subject to a written declaration to the effect that the jewelry will be brought back to South Afr ica on the traveler's r e tu rn) and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manu fac tu r ing jewelers (except for exports to Botswana, Malawi, Zambia, and Z imbabwe), subject to a written declara- tion that the articles are in fu l ly manu fac tu red form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 75 per cent of the selling price to the u l t ima te con- signee. Furthermore, af ter reference and approval by the Reserve Bank, residents are allowed to export cur- rency coins, including certain gold coins, for sale to numismatists. The gold m in ing indus t ry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank within one month of pro- duc t ion. As a special concession, mines may retain approximately one third of their production for the purpose of m in t ing gold coins. The M int from time to time strikes gold coins and the K ruge r rand without a face value, which are legal tender but do not circulate in South Afr ica; these are made available in limited numbers to resident collectors, while the bulk is sold abroad. Changes during 1981 February 16. The following changes were made in existing regulations: ( 1) The approval au thor i ty of authorized dealers was extended to include (a) tender and performance guar- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution antees on behalf of South Afr ican residents up to speci- fied proportions of the va lue of contracts; (b) advertising expenses up to R 10,000 a year; (c) advance payment of up to 33V3 per cent of the ex-fac tory cost of capital goods imports if such was the requirement of suppliers; (d) ren tal income f rom fixed property accruing to non- residents; (e) technical service paymen ts to nonresidents wo rk ing in South A f r ica for certain specific purposes, up to R 10,000 a con trac t; and (f) paymen ts to speci- fied nonresidents such as a r t is ts, en ter ta iners, and sports- men, up to R 10,000 a contract. (2) The limit applied to the sale of foreign exchange by authorized dealers w i thout Reserve Bank approval was raised f rom R 200 to R 500 for imports requ ir ing cash w i th the order and for imports of medical prepara- tions by persons for their own use, and f rom R 300 to R 3,000 for imports for ph i la te l ic and num isma t ic purposes. ( 3) The requirements for mon th ly reports to the Exchange Control Department on fo rw a rd exchange contracts and on net holdings of fore ign currencies by au thor ized dealers, and for weekly reports on transac- tions exceeding R 200,000 were abolished. (4) Allowances for travel were raised by 331/3 per cent in the case of tourist travel and 50 per cent in the case of the additional allowance for business travel. Also, the amount of South A f r i c an Reserve Bank notes which may be taken in to or out of the coun try was doubled to R 200. (5) The l im it app l ied to exports by emigrants of motor vehicles and o ther household and personal effects was raised f rom R 10,000 to R 20,000. In addition, the limit applied to the release of f u n ds in Blocked Accounts to em igran ts visiting South A f r ica was raised by 50 per cent to R 150 a person a day plus R 75 for children less than 12 years old. The annual limit was doubled to R 10,000. Also, several items were added to the list of eligible uses of funds in blocked accounts inc lud ing certain medical and professional fees, insur- ance premiums, and tuition. (6) The portion of nonresident directors' fees (includ- ing fees earned by em ig ran ts) eligible for t rans fer abroad was raised f rom R 2,000 to R 4,000. (7) The ceiling applied to borrowing by nonresident- owned or nonresident-controlled companies was raised, by increasing the proportion of nonresident shareholding SOUTH AFRICA aga inst which loans could be extended f rom 25 per cent to 50 per cent. (This measure was ac tua l ly in troduced on Feb rua ry 17, 1981.) (8) The limit applied to exports of jewe l ry inherited by nonresidents was raised f rom R 200 to R 20,000. February 20. The de f in i t ion of fore ign cu r rency for the purpose of exchange control was changed to include any ins t rument for the payment of currency that was not legal tender in a coun try in the Rand Mone ta ry Area. March 24. Notice was given for te rm ina t ion of the trade agreement w i th Zimbabwe. The agreement signed in 1964 provided for the suspension of import and export controls for trade between the two coun t r ies and for p re fe ren t ial customs duties. The agreement pro- vided for a one-year period of notice. The va l id i ty period of the agreement was extended to allow for renego t ia t ions to be concluded. April 13. The l im it for the sale of K rug e r r ands to resi- den ts was raised f rom 150,000 ounces a year to 300,000 ounces. August 13. The exchange control authorities announ c ed that requests for cap i tal t r a n s f e rs at the com- mercial rand exchange rate by em ig r an ts over 60 years of age or disabled wou ld be considered; l im i ts of R 30,000 a fam i ly un it or R 15,000 for single ind iv idua ls were set for such t rans fe rs. August 19. Members of the South A f r i c an Insu rance Association were exempted f rom the l im i ts applied to the g ran t ing of credit to nonresident-owned or nonresi- den t-con tro l led companies in respect of pe r fo rmance bonds for specified purposes. December 2. The fo l low ing changes were made in existing regu la t ions: (a) permission was gran ted for authorized dealers to allow, w i thout reference to the Reserve Bank, the reinvestment of proceeds f rom mor t- gage bonds; (b) au tho r iza t ion was g ran ted for blocked f u n ds and financial rand f u n ds to be invested in Mu tu al Fund un i ts; and (c) authorized dealers were pe rm i t ted to e f fec t, at the commercial rand exchange rate, trans- fers of exchange brokerage rebates due f rom res ident to nonresident stockbrokers. December 21. It was announced that up to R 5,000 f rom a South Afr ican estate may be t ran s fe r red to non- resident beneficiaries at the commercial rand exchange rate. 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Spain is the Spanish Peseta. The authorities of Spain do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined largely on the basis of demand and supply con- ditions in the exchange markets. However, the authori- ties intervene when necessary in order to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates and to ma in ta in stability in the exchange marke t. Official buy ing and selling rates for specified currencies l are fixed daily by the Bank of Spain ( the central b a n k ), acting in consulta- tion with the authorized banks. On December 31, 1981 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were P tas97 .31 and Ptas 97.59, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Bank of Spain also quotes each week buy ing and selling rates for banknotes in specified currencies. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the Bank of Spain, which publishes the rates at which it settles direct transactions. These rates are the same as the prevailing rates for the U.S. dollar. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in foreign markets for spot and forward transactions. Forward cover may be provided to residents for all permitted foreign exchange receipts and for import payments. Forward contracts may not exceed 12 months, and forward purchases and sales of exchange are restricted to currencies admitted to the Madrid foreign exchange market. In addition, the forward peseta position of an individual bank at the close of each day must not reflect a net buying or selling position in U.S. dollars in excess of US$1 million and in each other convertible currency in excess of US$100,000. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The guidelines on foreign exchange policy are formu- lated by an interministerial commission. The Ministry of Economy and Commerce is in charge of adminis- trative functions connected with exchange control. The Bank of Spain is in charge of operative functions, in particular, the handling of external reserves. It is also responsible for the authorization of foreign cur- rency loans to residents for nontrade purposes. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce; the la t ter is also in charge of the con- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 394 trols over Spanish investment abroad, private Spanish lending abroad, foreign financing of trade, and the registration of foreign investments in Spain. Contracts relating to technological matters must be registered with the M in is try of Indus try and Energy. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles may be made in any specified currency, (see foo tno te 1) but they are usua l ly made in the cur- rency of the coun try of origin or destination. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Nonresident Accounts There are several types of nonresident accounts, as follows: Convertible Peseta Accounts. A Accounts and B Accounts in pesetas have been abolished, and non- residents are now permitted to hold Convertible Peseta Accounts, balances in which can be freely converted into foreign currency; existing peseta balances in A Accounts and B Accounts au toma t ica l ly become convertible peseta balances. These Convertible Peseta Accounts may be credited w i th the proceeds of foreign currency (other than bankno te s) sold in the Spanish foreign currency ma rke t, w i th au thor ized payments made by residents to nonresidents as a result of any balance of payments transaction, with accrued interest on such accounts, and with t rans fer f rom other such accounts. Convertible Peseta Accounts may be debited for purchases of equivalent amoun ts of foreign cur- rency and banknotes in the Spanish foreign currency market, for authorized payments in pesetas to residents as a result of any balance of payments transaction, for cash drawings by nonresidents, and for transfers to other peseta accounts. Interest on Convertible Peseta Accounts can be free ly established by authorized banks, and balances are not subject to reserve requirements. Balances in Convertible Peseta Accounts are eligible for forward cover in the Spanish forward exchange market. External Accounts in Internal Pesetas are designed to hold nonresidents' f u n ds accruing in Spain that are not transferable abroad. Au toma t ic approval is given to open such accounts. Balances are freely negotiable between nonresidents holding such accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) the fu ll pro- ceeds of the sale by a nonresident to a resident of Spanish real estate or ig ina l ly acquired w i th pesetas f rom an External Account in In ternal Pesetas; (2) the full proceeds of the sale by a nonresident to a resident of Spanish shares and fixed-interest securities that have been acquired w i th pesetas from an External Account in Internal Pesetas and have been held for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution less than three years consecutively by the same owne r ;2 ( 3) interest received on balances held in these accounts; and (4) t rans fe rs f rom any other Ex ternal Accounts in Internal Pesetas. They may be debited free ly for ( 1) payments of any amount of personal expenses in Spain of the account holder and his close relatives (a manager's personal expenses if the account is opened in the name of a ju r id ical pe r son ); (2) the purchase of shares quoted on the stock exchange and of Spanish fixed-interest securities; (3) the purchase for the use of the account holder (provided that the account holder is a nonresident physical person) of u rban and rural properties that do not represent inves tment for com- mercial, industrial, or agr icu l tural purposes (applicable to ru ral properties only if the account holder is of Spanish n a t ion a l i ty ); (4) the purchase of National Lottery tickets; and (5) transfers to any other External Accounts in In ternal Pesetas. All other entries on these accounts require prior au thor iza t ion, and the accounts may not be overdrawn. Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Cur- rencies may be held by nonresidents; resident foreign na t iona ls may m a in t a in such accounts only if opened before Janua ry 1, 1968, in order to m a in t a in acquired rights. The deposits may be either sight or time. The accounts may be credited with convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market and with any amount of interest. They may be debited free ly for reconversion into the currency initially deposited, for the purchase of other convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange marke t, and for conversion into pesetas, including the t rans fer to a Convertible Peseta Account. Overdraf ts are prohibited except for mail credits in favor of foreign banks. Emigrants' Accounts. Since October 29, 1970, com- mercial banks have been authorized to open savings accounts in convertible pesetas for Spanish citizens working abroad. The regulations were modified by Royal Decree No. 1222/77. Tourist Accounts. Foreign nonresident tourists in Spain may open o rd ina ry peseta accounts with authorized institutions in an amount not exceeding Ptas 200,000 for an account; such an account must always show a credit balance position. These accounts may be cred- ited w i th receipts from foreign exchange conversion, with peseta banknotes in the possession of the tourist on entering Spain (a max imum of Ptas 150,000 in each t r i p ), w i th f u n ds f rom other Convertible Peseta Accounts, and with ord inary pesetas received in Spain by the tourist. Debits on such accounts may be made to cover the tourist's living expenses in Spain as well as payments of the tourist's household expenses. Bal- ances in these accounts cannot be t rans fe r red abroad. Nonresident Accounts Relating to Execution of Busi- ness Contracts. Nonresidents must open a peseta 2 The proceeds of such securities that have been held for at least three years consecutively, are transferab le abroad. SPAIN account in an authorized institution in connection with the execution of business projects for a resident, to fac i l i ta te reporting on receipts and paymen ts under such contracts. Such accounts may be credited w i th working capital brought in by the nonresident con- trac tor and with payments over t ime by the residents concerned. Funds imported under this arrangement must be converted into pesetas, are noninterest-bearing, and may not be repatriated un t il a f ter six mon ths f rom the en try date. The accounts may be debited w i th pay- ments by nonresidents for the execution of the project. Balances on such accounts are t ran s fe rab le abroad, a f ter ver if ica t ion by the Directorate-General of Exter- nal Transactions that the amoun ts conform to the terms of the contracts. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are admitted under the fo l low ing arrangemen ts: ( 1) free imports, (2) global quotas, (3) state trading, and (4) ind iv idual l icens ing, also referred to as the "b i la teral import regime." All imports require either an import license or an "import declaration" issued by the Directorate-General of Tar iff Policy and Imports. Provided that import prices are not considered abnormal, import declarations are issued freely for a large number of goods (mostly food- s tuffs not under state trading, raw materials, capital goods, and spare par ts, and also some consumer goods) included in an import free list that applies to most countries; the free list also applies to specified imports Iran and Japan.8 All other f rom imports require licenses. There are global quotas for specified imports from countries to which the free list applies, but licenses are usually granted for larger amoun ts .4 With certain exceptions, the global quota regime also applies to goods of Japanese origin. Licenses for imports f rom Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Roman ia, and the U.S.S.R. are issued freely. Imports of certain agricultural products, some raw materials, petroleum products, and tobacco are state traded; some goods formally listed as being subject to state t rad ing, such as feedgra ins and raw cotton, may be free ly imported by private traders. Imports of certain agricultural products that are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction and previously were state traded are subject to variable import levies. Import subsidies are paid on certain foods tu f fs and specified other essential commodities. Exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for au tho- rized imports is granted freely. Except for capital goods, suppliers' credit for imports is not norma l ly permitted to exceed 90 days. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and the 3 The import f ree list does not apply to A fghan i s tan, Albania, Andorra, Bhutan, People's Republic of China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Nepal, San Marino, Tibet, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. * There are separate global quotas for imports of the same com- modities f rom EC countries. 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN import payment must be made through the bank of domiciliation; exempt f rom domiciliation are transac- tions valued at less than Ptas 1 million, provided that payment is to be made within one year. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely for listed current invisibles, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documents to verify the authenticity of the transaction. Holders of Spanish securities (excluding securities issued by private com- panies and acquired through direct subscription) may freely transfer abroad accrued interest, dividends, and proceeds from the disposal of subscription rights; the securities must have been purchased w i th convertible pesetas, with pesetas resulting f rom the sale of foreign exchange, or with pesetas released from External Accounts in In ternal Pesetas. Profits and dividends on direct investments are also freely transferable abroad. Rents on nonresident-owned real estate are transferable, provided that the purchase price has been paid in fu l l. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Unless special authorization is otherwise granted, insurance contracts abroad are restricted to cover for exports and imports of goods and related operations. Payments up to Ptas 50,000 for any purpose may be made without any supporting documents. The basic exchange allowance for tourism is Ptas 80,000 a person a journey, with an annual max imum of Ptas 320,000. The authorized banks are free to sell the equivalent of Ptas 200,000 a person for each business trip, with an annual maximum of Ptas 1.4 million, and any amount for travel for education or health care. Travelers may take with them Ptas 20,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. The sale of foreign exchange for amounts in excess of the above limits and for current invisibles not specifically listed requires a prior declaration to the Ministry of Economy and Commerce (Directorate-Gen- eral of External Transactions). Travelers may bring into Spain up to Ptas 150,000 a traveler. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are subject to prior licensing by the Direc- torate-General of Exportation. All export proceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to the Bank of Spain through authorized banks within 15 days of receipt. Certain agricultural products may be subject to an export tax, but this practice is unusua l. Since April 1980 some goods included in a list published by the Directorate-General of Exportation may be exported without a license if payment is made in convertible foreign currency and within six months of export; in this case, only a declaration before the customs is required. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the Bank of Spain through 396 authorized banks within 15 days of receipt. Travelers may bring in a max imum of Ptas 100,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital 1. Inward Transfers (a) Foreign direct investments. As a general rule, there are no restrictions on foreign capital investments which lead to ownership of up to 50 per cent of the capital of Spanish companies. Prior adm in is tra t ive authorization is normally required for fore ign invest- ments of more than 50 per cent. Special fore ign par- ticipation ratios and regulations apply to cer ta in specific activities.5 Thus, foreign capital investments are not allowed in defense industries or the news media, while in public service companies fore ign capital holdings may not exceed 25 per cent. Under Royal Decree No. 622/1981 of March 27, 1981, investments by residents with o rd ina ry pesetas are not considered as fore ign investments. Where investment authorization is needed, the process is decentralized, with approval f rom the Council of Min- isters needed only when the investment amoun ts are over Ptas 500 million. For lower amounts, authoriza- tion is given by the Ministry for Economy and Com- merce or the Directorate-General of External Trans- actions with the participation in some cases of the Foreign Investment Board. The Royal Decree also authorizes Spanish branches of fo re ign companies to carry out direct investments, subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of External Transactions. Under Royal Decree No. 623/1981, of March 27, 1981, foreign investment up to Ptas 25 million, carried out by nonresidents or Spanish firms w i th foreign par- ticipation, for the establishment of new firms or the acquisition of branches of real estate is liberalized. The Royal Decee also gran ts general au thor iza t ion for Spanish companies to effect capital increases debited to free disposable reserves, provided that there is no increase in the percentage of foreign participation. Similar authorization is granted for fore ign invest- ment in capital increases for the normal expansion of Spanish companies, without increasing the percentage of foreign participation. Under th is Royal Decree, foreign investments w i th in the specified liberalized regime may be taken as accepted by the Directorate- General of External Transactions if there is no response f rom the latter within 30 working days. Foreign direct investments are also authorized in Spanish companies that are in the process of increasing their capital. This may be effected through the pur- 5 The fore ign content of inves tment by Spanish companies w i th foreign par t ic ipa t ion is de term ined in the fo l low ing m ann e r: (1) if fo re ign par t ic ipa t ion exceeds 50 per cent, the inves tment is con- sidered 100 per cent fore ign; (2) if fo re ign pa r t ic ipa t ion is over 25 per cent but equal to or less than 50 per cent, the investment is considered fore ign to the extent of such pa r t ic ipa t ion; nevertheless, if fo re ign investors enjoy a position of dom inance, the investment is considered 100 per cent foreign; and (3) if fo re ign par t ic ipa t ion is 25 per cent or less or if there is Spanish Gove rnment participation, the investment is considered as domestic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution chase of shares or inves tment in the cap i ta l, provided that the company creates 100 permanent jobs, that the foreign currency account shows a positive balance after one year of production, that the total capital and reserves of the company are increased by at least 30 per cent, and that at least Ptas 100 million is invested in the purchase of shares. Foreign investments may be effected by t r an s f e r r ing currencies that are negotiable in the Spanish exchange marke t, by u s ing convertible pesetas, by b r ing ing in capital goods, by reinvesting profits or capital trans- fe rab le under the Foreign Inves tment Law, or by pro- v id ing technology, patents, or licenses. Proceeds, inc lud ing capital gains, f rom the l i q u i d a t i on of fo re ign direct inves tmen ts may be t ran s fe r red free ly. (b) Portfolio investments. Purchases by nonresi- den ts of shares in most Spanish companies are per- m i t ted f ree ly up to the percentages applicable to direct investment. This applies to shares acquired by Span- iards resident abroad as well as by res ident or non- resident foreigners w i th foreign capital. Por tfo l io and direct inves tmen ts in nonspecified sectors by nonresi- dent foreigners are not considered as fo re ign invest- ments. Proceeds, inc lud ing capital gains, f rom the l iqu ida t ion of such shares may be t ran s fe r red abroad at any time or used for f u r t h er purchases of shares.6 Purchases by nonres iden ts of bonds and other fixed- income securities represen t ing debts of either Spanish companies or the Spanish Government and its agencies are unrestricted when financed as indicated in this paragraph, and the fu ll sales proceeds are transferab le. The purchase by nonres iden ts of bank certificates of deposit requires special au tho r iza t ion, but nonresidents may freely purchase bonds issued by banks with a ma tu r i ty of five years or more. (c) Real estate investments. Inves tment in Spanish real estate by nonres iden ts is, w i th in certain limits,7 freely permitted if financed with pesetas derived f rom convertible currencies or f rom balances in Convertible Peseta Accounts held by nonresidents. The M in i s t ry of Economy and Commerce has empowered authorized banks to provide the investor w i th a document certify- ing that he owns such pesetas; this is the only require- ment for official registration of the change in owner- ship. Certain investments in real estate may also be financed from External Accounts in In te rnal Pesetas. Irrespective of the method of financing, rural properties purchased in excess of 4 hectares of irrigated land or 20 hectares of un i r r iga ted land require authorization 6 However, if the purchase was made w i th in te rnal pesetas, the owner of the shares must hold them for three years, a f ter which he may t r a n s f er the l iqu id a t ion proceeds abroad. 7 Purchases of real estate by nonresident physical persons of fo re ign na t iona l i ty, if f inanced w i th f u n ds impo r ted f r om abroad, are f ree ly perm i t ted by a general au tho r iza t ion, as follows: (1) one plot not exceeding 5,000 squa re meters for one single-family dwelling for personal use, (2) the land needed for the construction of an apa r tment bu i ld ing, and (3) up to th ree apa r tmen ts in a single apa r tment bu i ld ing. There are separate regu la t ions governing the purchase of business premises (see Royal Decree No. 623/81). SPAIN from the Council of Ministers. When Spanish real estate acquired under the 1974 Foreign Investment Act is sold to a resident, the f u ll sales proceeds are transferable if the initial purchase was financed with convertible foreign currency or with pesetas f rom an External Account in Convertible Pesetas. If the initial purchase was financed with pesetas f rom an External Account in Internal Pesetas, no part of the sale proceeds is transferable. (d) Bank credit. Spanish firms with fo re ign partici- pation in excess of 25 per cent are authorized to avail themselves of local bank credit up to five times their capital stock; domestic bank credit beyond this l im it requires prior au thor iza t ion from the General Direc- tora te of Financial Policy, unless the excess would only involve a ratio between fore ign and local credit equal to or greater than the existing ra t io of fore ign to local participation in the company's capital. (e) Other credits. The g ran t ing of loans by nonresi- dents to residents requires au thor iza t ion by the Bank of Spain. For loans w i th an average term to ma tu r i ty of one year or more, approval is g ran ted automatically if the application is not questioned or rejected w i th in 15 work ing days by the Bank of Spain. Suppliers' credits extended to residents by nonresidents require au thor iza t ion by the M in is try of Economy and Com- merce. 2. Ou tward Transfers (a) Direct investments. Direct investments abroad by residents are permitted f ree ly provided one of the fo l low ing conditions is me t: ( 1) the share of the Spanish investment is at least 20 per cent of the capital of the foreign company; (2) the Spanish investor par- ticipates in the management of the fo re ign company or otherwise exercises an impor tant influence over it; or (3) the foreign company uses exclusively or pre- dom inan t ly technology provided by the Spanish investor. Direct investment projects abroad must be declared to the Directorate-General of External Transactions for verification of authenticity and for statistical con- trol. If no administrative no t i f ica t ion is received regarding the project within 30 days of the declaration, the parties concerned may proceed w i th the investment. The investment must be carried out, in principle, with- in a period of six months. Direct investments in for- eign companies leading to the purchase and holding of securities and the purchase of real estate are not liberalized. (b) Portfolio investments. Banks, savings institu- tions, and insurance companies may purchase foreign securities up to 10 per cent of the increase in their own resources. In the case of existing establishments, the increased resources are calculated f rom the date on which Royal Decree No. 2236 /79 of September 14, 1979 (providing for the liberalization of Spanish invest- ments abroad) became effective; for new establishments, the calculation is made from the date on which the 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN m in imum legal requirements for subscribed and paid-up capital are effective. Spanish residents may purchase free ly fixed-income securities denominated in foreign exchange and issued by Spanish private and public institutions and by international organizations in which Spain is a member. Acquisition and disposal of such securities must be reported to the Directorate-General of External Transactions. All other Spanish investments abroad require prior authorization, which is handled by the Directorate- General of External Transactions if the investment does not exceed Ptas 100 million and by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce in the case of higher amounts. (c) Loans. Requests by nonbank residents to grant loans to nonresidents and for suppliers' credits from Spanish residents to nonresidents require authorization by the M in is try of Economy and Commerce. There has been no experience with the issuing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by nonresidents, nor with short-term credits granted by Spanish banks to nonresidents other than certain export credits granted directly to foreign importers. Credits to nonresidents for transactions with Spain may, however, be autho- rized by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Furthermore, authorized banks may extend various types of credit to nonresidents, provided that this credit is financed w i th f u n ds deposited in Spain in nonresident convertible currency accounts; some fo rms of such credit do not require prior approval by the M in is try of Economy and Commerce. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in any fo rm in Spain. Purchases of gold, silver, and p la t inum ingots are subject to a luxury tax of 30 per cent, but gold purchased for industrial use is exempt f rom the tax. Imports of gold are subject to quotas issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Such quotas are granted to indus tr ial users for purposes of m anu f a c tu r- ing jewelry and other articles. Changes during 1981 January 23. The former nonresident deposit catego- ries of Foreign Accounts in Pesetas (A Accounts) and Foreign Accounts in Convertible Pesetas (B Accoun ts) were abolished, and balances in these accounts automati- cally became balances in Convertible Peseta Accounts. Balances in Convertible Peseta Accounts may be freely converted in to foreign currency or used to effect pay- ments in Spain. The requirement that banks redeposit with the Bank of Spain all increases in nonresidents' peseta deposit accounts was rescinded, as was the pro- hibition on interest on such accounts. Interest on Convertible Peseta Accounts may be freely agreed (Bank of Spain Circular No. 2 /1981 ). January 23. In a modification of the regulations on 398 the acquisition and disposal of securities, purchase by nonresidents of certificates of deposit issued by banks in Spain was made subject to au thor iza t ion by the Bank of Spain. The purchase by nonresidents of bonds issued by banks with a ma tu r i ty of five years or more was permitted freely. January 26. The temporary across-the-board import duty reductions which had been established by Royal Decree No. 764/80 of Ap r il 26, 1980 were extended to April 26, 1981. These reductions were subsequently extended for three-month periods through Ju ly 26, 1981, October 26, 1981, and J anu a ry 26, 1982. January 30. The regulation requ ir ing each bank to have a balanced fo rw a rd position in each convertible currency at the close of the business day was inter- preted to allow a net position in U.S. dollars of US$1 million and a net position in each other convertible currency of not more than the equ iva lent of US$100,000. Banks were also permitted to provide fo rwa rd cover for nonresident Convertible Peseta Accounts (Bank of Spain Circular No. 4 /1981 ). February 1. The limit up to wh ich paymen ts may be made for any purpose w i thout suppo r t ing documents was raised from Ptas 25,000 to Ptas 50,000; in addi- tion, the max imum amount exempt f rom the require- ment that all paymen ts must be domiciled with an authorized bank was raised f rom Ptas 500,000 to Ptas 1 million. March 27. Royal Decree No. 622 /81 l i f t ed restric- tions on investments in pesetas by fo re ign residents in Spain. The decree empowered the Directorate-General of External Transactions to approve investments under Ptas 50 million, and to approve those between Ptas 50 million and Ptas 250 million, subject to a favorab le report f rom the Council of Foreign Invest- ment. Investments between Ptas 250 million and Ptas 500 million require a report by the Council and approval of the M in is ter of Economy and Commerce, wh i le investments above Ptas 500 million require cabinet approval. In add i t ion, the Royal Decree liberalized for- eign investments by nonresidents or by Spanish firms with foreign par t ic ipa t ion, for the establishment of new firms or the acquisition of branches of real estate. The Decree also, inter alia, gran ted general authorization for Spanish companies to e f fect capital increases debited to free disposable reserves, provided that there would be no increase in the percentage of fo re ign pa r t ic ipa t ion. April 14. A governmental order was issued autho- rizing Spanish firms w i th fore ign pa r t ic ipa t ion in excess of 25 per cent to avail themselves of local bank credit up to five times their capital stock; domestic credit beyond this l im it would require prior au tho r iza t ion from the General Directorate of F inanc ial Policy, unless the excess would only involve a ra t io between foreign and local credit equal to or greater than the existing ratio of foreign to local participation in the company's capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka Rupee. The authorities do not ma in ta in marg ins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined largely on the basis of demand and supply con- ditions in the exchange marke t. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The Central Bank determines daily the official exchange rates of commercial banks for the ir customers for telegraphic t rans fe rs in respect of six designated currencies.1 The Central Bank also purchases and sells these currencies on a spot basis at the m idd le ra te so established. The Central Bank has established spreads for commercial banks between their buy ing and selling rates equivalent to SL Rs 3.00 per US$100 and SL Rs 5.50 per <£ stg. 100. Spreads have also been established for the deutsche mark, the French f ranc, the Ind ian rupee, and the Japenese yen. On December 31, 1981 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were SL Rs 20.535 and SL Rs 20.565, respec- tively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Central Bank provides fo rwa rd cover only to commercial banks and in U.S. dollars only. At the end of 1981, forward purchases of U.S. dollars by the Cen- tral Bank was at a discount against the spot rate by SLR s 2 . 50 per US$100 for one month's cover, and SL Rs 9.00 per US$100 for the max imum period of six months' cover. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Exchange Control of the Central Bank as agent of the Government. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through commercial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign cur- rencies in accordance with the exchange control pro- cedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under perm i ts issued by the Controller of Exchange. The Foreign Investment Advisory Committee handles applications relating to fore ign investment. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Sri Lanka has bilateral payments agreements2 must be made through the relevant special accounts. Payments in respect of trade with Pakistan also are effected through special accounts. Payments to, and receipts from, member 1 Deutsche m a rk, French francs, Indian rupees, Japanese yen, pounds s te r l ing, and U.S. dollars. 2 People's Republic of China and Syrian A rab Republic. Since J a n u a ry 1, 1982 only settlements relating to ad ju s tmen ts in transac- tions e f fec ted before the end of 1981 are channeled th rough the special account with the People's Republic of China; subsequent transactions are to be settled in convertible currencies. The bilateral payments agreement w i th the Syrian Arab Republic is inoperative. countries of the Asian Clearing Union (i.e., Bangladesh, Bu rma, India, Iran, Nepal, and Pak is tan) in respect of cu r rent transactions (other than those relating to petro- leum, na tu ral gas, and their produc ts) must be effected in Asian Monetary Units or in the currency of a mem- ber of the Asian Clearing Union. For se t t lemen ts with all other countries, paymen ts for impor ts may be made in any fore ign cu r rency or in Sri Lanka rupees. Other paymen ts may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to an Ex ternal Rupee Account. Proceeds f rom exports must be received in designated fore ign currencies.3 Other receipts may be accepted in Sri Lanka rupees from an External Rupee Account or in any designated foreign currency (see foo tno te 3 ). Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in any commercial bank in Sri Lanka by (a) nonnationals resident outside Sri Lanka; (b) firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (c) Sri Lanka nationals resident outside Sri Lanka, who are classified for this purpose into two categories (those whose current or savings accounts are redesignated as nonresident accounts following their depar ture, and those whose accounts are opened a f ter their d e p a r t u r e ); (d) emigrants; and (e) fore ign banks. The opening of these accounts for categories (a) and ( b ), the crediting of the initial and subsequent deposits arising from inward remittances, and debits for local disbursements may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; however, local credits to these accounts and debits for remit- tances abroad require the prior approval of the Depart- ment. The opening and redesignating of accounts in category ( c ), credits arising from inward remittances, and local credits and debits to such accounts may be effected w i thout the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; debits of these accounts for remit- tances abroad are not permitted. Accounts in cate- gory (d) are blocked nonresident accounts. Local debits to such accounts may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; how- ever, local credits to them and debits for ou tward remit- tances require the prior approval of the Department. Under category (e) foreign banks may be permitted to open and operate nonresident accounts without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control. Nonresident blocked accounts are used for holding funds that have not been accepted for t ran s fer abroad, usually funds owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and 3 Aus tra l ian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss f ranc s, and U.S. dollars. 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA emigrants. Authorized dealers are permitted to debit these accounts for local disbursements and credit them on account of pensions, income tax refunds, and profits and dividends without prior approval. Funds on blocked accounts may be invested in any local enterprise without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Pro- ceeds from the liquidation of such investments must be credited to blocked accounts. Remittances up to a maxi- mum of SL Rs 200,000 are allowed from these accounts, without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Remittance of interest accrued to blocked accounts is fully transferable after deduction of taxes. Also retained in blocked accounts is a proportion of local currency earnings, derived from the exhibition of foreign-owned films, if the takings exceed the amount specified in the import license; such retained funds may be used by the owner for certain specified purposes, including the making of films in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka nationals resident abroad are allowed to ma in ta in nonresident foreign currency accounts in Sri Lanka in convertible currencies.4 Credits to the accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances from abroad and money brought into the country by indi- viduals at the time of arrival; in addition, interest pay- ments in these four convertible currencies may be credited to the accounts. These accounts may be freely debited without exchange control approval for payments abroad or within Sri Lanka in foreign currency, while the account holder is outside Sri Lanka, and for a period of ten years from the date of arrival of the account holder for taking up permanent residence in Sri Lanka. These accounts are exempt from income and wealth taxes dur- ing the period in which the account holder is resident abroad and for a fu r ther period of three years after resuming residence in Sri Lanka. Commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka may estab- lish a Foreign Currency Banking Unit. These units may accept time and demand deposits in any designated for- eign currency from nonresidents and from resident enter- prises in the Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC), the free trade zone, and they may extend loans and advances to any nonresident and to any resi- dent enterprise having GCEC status in any designated foreign currency. In addition, the Foreign Currency Banking Units are allowed to accept time and demand deposits from and grant loans and advances to any other resident approved by the Central Bank for such pur- poses as may be approved by the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain specified imports, no prior licensing is required. Imports that are subject to prior licensing include those subject to control for security reasons, precious metals, alcohol, and certain consumer goods, in addition to several major food items, i.e., rice, flour, and wheat grains. 4 In deutsche mark, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 400 Imports of specified items5 are restricted to govern- ment or state corporations; these are referred to as "reserved items." Prior approval procedures apply to certain imports of capital goods: certain machinery imports relating to foreign investment require the approval of the Foreign Investment Advisory Com- mittee, and machinery imports relating to local invest- ment require the prior approval of the Local Investment Advisory Committee; no prior approval is required if any single consignment does not exceed SL Rs 700,000. Holders of balances in Convertible Rupee Accounts, which were abolished for new credits as of Novem- ber 16, 1977, may use these funds to pay for certain imports, subject to licensing by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Except for specified transactions, imports can be effected only against sight letters of credit. An autho- rized dealer may approve an application to remit foreign exchange or to credit a Nonresident Account against an application for the opening of a letter of credit, and proof of a valid import license, when applicable. These requirements do not apply where the value of a consign- ment is less than SL Rs 5,000 and is for the direct use of the importer. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments for invisibles require exchange con- trol permission. For travel abroad, residents of Sri Lanka are allowed a basic foreign exchange allowance of Indian rupees 2,000 an adult and Indian rupees 1,000 a child under 12 years, once every two years; for travel to the "Indian group of countries" (defined as Bangla- desh, Burma, India, Maldives, Nepal, and Pak is tan), the U.S. dollar or pound sterling equivalents of these amounts may be allowed. In addition, basic allowances of £ stg. 500 for an adult and <£ stg. 250 for a child under 12 years of age are allowed every four years for travel to other countries. Additional foreign exchange is provided to pay for air fares. The prior approval by the Central Bank is not required for these sales of exchange. Allowances for official travel require a certificate from the head of the relevant institution. Banks can also pro- vide foreign exchange for business travel when the request is accompanied by a letter from the chairman, director, partner, or sole proprietor of the company recommending the particular trip abroad. In those cases, exchange is allowed at the rate of US$45 a day, up to a maximum of 30 days, for the Indian group of countries and US$90 a day, also up to a maximum of 30 days, for other destinations. These limits apply to chairmen, directors, partners, and sole proprietors of companies; other business executives may obtain up to US$30 a day for the Indian group of countries and up to US$65 a day, up to a maximum of 30 days, for other countries. 5 These include Maldive fish, dried fish f rom India and Pakistan, dates, chillies, onions, potatoes, beedi leaves, certain petroleum prod- ucts, films, consumer textiles, caustic soda, tea chests, ju te hessian, mamoties, and matches. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange may be released for medical treat- ment abroad if any specialist, whether in government service or in pr iva te pratice, certifies that equally effec- tive trea tment is not available in Sri Lanka. The limits for treatment in the Indian group of countries are <£ stg. 130 for an adult and <£ stg. 65 for a child a mon th. For other destinations the monthly allowance is <£ stg. 500 for adults and <£ stg. 250 for children. Exchange for emergency travel for persons who have already used the basic allowance may be released with- out prior approval in amounts up to Ind ian rupees 750 to the Indian group of countries and <£ stg. 200 to other countries. Authorized dealers are also allowed to sell foreign exchange for advertising charges and for sub- scriptions and payments to international tourist organiza- tions. Payments for other types of travel allowance require prior approval by the Central Bank. The provision of foreign exchange and passage money for educational purposes at a recognized un ivers i ty or technical institute at undergradua te or postgraduate levels, or for specialized technical training, is allowed by authorized dealers. Foreign exchange is made avail- able up to Indian rupees 3,600 a year for postgraduate students and Ind ian rupees 3,000 a year for under- g radua te students in the Indian group of countries, and <£ stg. 1,500 a year for postgraduate students and <£ stg. 1,200 a year for undergradua te students in other countries, in addition to actual fees and allowances for books. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit for f am i ly ma in tenance a maximum of two thirds of their gross mon th ly income. Other foreign nationals are permitted to remit <£ stg. 165 a month for a wife, <£ stg. 180 a mon th for a boy in a senior school, <£ stg. 160 for a girl in a senior school, <£ stg. 125 for a boy in a jun ior school, and <£ stg. 115 for a girl in a jun ior school, up to a max imum of one th ird of the gross mon th ly income of the pa ren t; any excess of the total of such rem i t tances over one th ird of gross monthly income is treated as an an t ic ipa to ry t ran s fer against the expatri- ate's en t i t lement to remit assets at the time of repatria- t ion. Foreign technical personnel employed by approved enterprises may remit up to two thirds of their monthly earnings if their contract of employment does not exceed three years, and up to one third in cases of employment contracts exceeding three years. Foreign technical personnel employed in the f ree trade zone may remit up to 90 per cent of their monthly earnings. Nationals of Sri Lanka are not granted foreign exchange for fam i ly remittances. Commissions up to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad. No remittances for insurance on exports are permitted; these must be covered with the Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka. Holders of funds in Convertible Rupee Accounts with credit balances outstanding as of November 15, 1977 may use these funds for travel expenditures and other SRI LANKA current invisibles without the prior approval by the Controller of Exchange. Banks are authorized, without prior exchange con- trol approval, to provide foreign exchange for subscrip- tions to professional institutions, fees in respect of for- eign examinations held in Sri Lanka, and payments for the import of material for correspondence courses. Profit remittances and remittances of dividends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks without prior exchange control approval if they relate to the year of application, do not include undis- tributed profits f rom previous years, and do not include t ran s fer f rom reserves and profits resu l t ing from the sale of fixed assets. For interim profits, the following documents should be fu rn ished: ( 1) a certificate from the company's audi- tors conf irm ing that the amount to be remitted repre- sents profits for the period to which it relates; (2) a pre- l im inary computation of the remittable profits; (3) a tax clearance (only in the case of nonresident partners) in respect of the profits to be remitted; (4) a certificate conf irm ing .that the beneficiary is resident abroad; and (5) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amount due to each. For final profits, sub- mission of the following documents is required: (a) an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remit- tance relates; (b) a certificate from the auditors con- firming that the remittance represents the final install- ment of the profits, declared in respect of the year under reference; and (c) a computation of the remittable profits, and also the documents listed in ( 3 ), ( 4 ), and (5) required for the remittance of interim profits. Remittances of interim dividends can be made sub- ject to the submission of the following documents: (1) a certificate from the company's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted represents only dividends for the period to which it relates; (2) a certification that the remittance constitutes an interim dividend based on the unaud i ted accounts for the period; (3) a certificate con- firming that the beneficiary is a resident outside Sri Lanka; and (4) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amounts due to them. The remittance of a final dividend requires the submission of (a) an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; (b) a certificate from the auditors confirming that the remittance represents dividends only for the period to which it relates; and (c) the documents listed in ( 3) and (4) required for the remittance of interim dividends. Resident nonnationals may maintain foreign currency accounts with domestic commercial banks in any of ten designated currencies6 without prior exchange control 6 Deutsche m a rk, French f rancs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic unit of the bank and not by its Foreign Cur- rency Banking Unit. The accounts may be current, savings, or deposit accounts, but withdrawal of funds by checks is not permitted. Credits to these accounts are limited to inward remittances and to amounts in Sri Lanka rupees authorized by the Exchange Controller for remittance abroad; debits are limited to outward remittances and to payments in foreign currency con- verted into Sri Lanka rupees. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of entry. Unspent rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by nonresi- dent travelers may be reconverted into foreign currency, provided that the Customs Declaration Card indicates that at least the equivalent of such balances has been brought into Sri Lanka. Residents may take out foreign currency notes and coin not exceeding <£ stg. 20 a per- son ( < £ s t g. 10 for children under 12 years) of the exchange authorized for travel. All persons leaving Sri Lanka may take out domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries with which Sri Lanka maintains bilateral payments agreements are subject to the approval of the Director of Commerce. A number of specified items require prior licensing by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Exports of rubber to the People's Republic of China, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. are effected under state trading; beginning April 30, 1981, the private sector can also trade in sheet rubber with these countries. The State Gem Corporation has control of exports of gems and jewelry. Exports of gems by the private sector require prior approval, and the Corporation handles exports in the name of miners who wish to export gems. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, diamonds, and platinum are allowed only in special circumstances. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be collected, usually within six months of the date of ship- ment, except in the case of tea exports to London auc- tions when the prescribed period is four months. Spe- cial arrangements apply to exports made under trade and payments agreements and to exports made to a member country of the Asian Clearing Union. Proceeds from Invisibles Unless otherwise specified, foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. A traveler enter- ing Sri Lanka must declare his holdings, including cur- rency notes and coin. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Indian and Pakistani currency is not permitted. A person enter- ing Sri Lanka may bring in domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250. Other currency notes and coin may be brought in without restriction. 402 Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in proj- ects which are specifically approved by the Govern- ment or, where the capital is drawn from a blocked account in Sri Lanka, in any local enterprise without the pr ior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of investments in approved projects other than investments made from blocked accounts may be repatriated, along with capital appreci- ation. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of invest- ments not approved by the Government may not be t ran s fe r red abroad but may be reinvested with the approval of the Controller of Exchange; the current income thereon may be remitted abroad. New foreign investments in Sri Lanka that are approved by the Foreign Investment Advisory Com- m i t tee of the M in is try of Finance and Planning or the Greater Colombo Economic Commission are also granted special facilities for remittances and taxation. Inves tmen ts abroad by residents are not normally perm i t ted. Resident-owned securities on which the principal, interest, or dividends are payable (either contractually or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only w i th the permission of the Controller of Exchange. Authorized dealers may grant allocations to emi- gran ts upon presentation of appropriate documentation. At the time of departure, emigrants can obtain passage to the country of migration by normal direct route and 20 per cent of passage fare to cover excess bag- gage. Exchange equivalent to <£ stg. 500 an adult and <£ stg. 250 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of departure. Personal effects up to SLRs 15,000 and jewelry up to SL Rs 30,000 for each female emigrant and SLRs 10,000 for each male emigrant can be exported. The Department of Exchange Control can approve the transfer of pensions in full, or up to <£ stg. 100 a month, including pension and other income, subject to submission of an income-tax clearance certificate. Repatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the coun try of their permanent domicile are permitted to t rans fer assets representing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings as determined by the Government from time to time. Persons who have been in business in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they originally brought into the country p lus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian families re tu rn ing to India. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports w i th the approval of the Central Bank. Commercial ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are severely restricted. Changes during 1981 April 1. Importation of tea was allowed, exclusively for export, for blending, packeting, and making into tea bags. April 30. Exportation of sheet rubber, which since 1952 had been the monopoly of the Commissioner of Commodity Purchase, was made open to the private sector. (Twice-weekly auctions would be held during which shippers would be permitted to buy RSS grades 1, 2, and 3 from local producers; shippers would also be permitted to enter into forward contracts of up to six mon ths .) May 20. Restrictions on the export of coconut oil, f resh coconuts, and coconut raf ters, imposed in 1979 owing to domestic supply shortages, were lifted. June 4. Import duties were revised on a few chemi- cal products and durable goods. July 21. The export duties on rubber were reduced. August 13. The specific export duty on coconut oil was abolished. August 15. The import duty on some live animals was reduced. SRI LANKA September 21. For the first time in several decades, authorization was granted for the private sector to import rice in commercial quantities under licenses obtainable from the Controller of Imports and Exports. September 22. Import duties were raised for some consumer items and reduced for a number of capital goods. October 30. A duty-free shopping complex requiring payments in foreign currency started operating in Colombo, accessible to tourists, diplomatic personnel, foreign personnel employed in projects, foreigners with resident visas, and incoming residents of Sri Lanka; for the last category, purchases were limited to the unused portion of residents' duty-free baggage allow- ance. November 13. The specific export duties on bulk tea and packeted tea were reduced from SL Rs 10.50 and SLR s 8 . 50 a kilogram to SL Rs 8.00 and SL Rs 6.50 a kilogram, respectively. November 13. A sliding scale of duties was intro- duced on exports of coconut products. November 13. Customs duties on machinery and essential industrial raw materials were reduced from 12.5 per cent to 5.0 per cent. 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at LSd 1 = US$1.11. On December 31, 1981 the offi- cial buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Bank of Sudan (the central bank) were LSd 0.89865 and LSd 0.90135, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are posted, with daily quotations based on the buy ing and selling rates for these currencies against the U.S. dollar in New York. There are two exchange markets: the official market, which handles most transactions, and a fluctuating free market operated by authorized foreign exchange dealers, in which nonessential imports, travel, private invisibles, and certain capital transfers are trans- acted. During 1981 the fluctuating f ree market rate has ranged between LSd 0.85 per US$1 to LSd 1.16 per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, with the assistance of the authorized banks. Only dealers authorized by the Bank of Sudan may deal in foreign exchange in the fluctuating free market. The issuance of registration forms and the licensing of imports and exports (except those of gold) are the responsibility of the Ministry of Cooperation, Com- merce, and Supply, but all registration forms and licenses pertaining to transactions in the official market must be validated by the Bank of Sudan; registration fo rms per ta in ing to transactions in the fluctuating free market are validated by commercial banks. Import pay- ments and other foreign payments are approved within the framework of an annual foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, in coordination w i th the Bank of Sudan and the Ministry of Cooperation, Supply, and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries —except Egypt, with which Sudan maintains a bilateral payments agreement —and all monetary areas ( the "convertible area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresi- dent account or in any fore ign currency, while receipts from the "convertible area" may be accepted in Suda- nese pounds from any nonresident account or in any convertible currency. Payments to Egypt for gasoline, Suez Canal dues, and 30 per cent of the savings of Egyptian teachers work ing in Sudan must be made in convertible currencies, while all other payments are settled through the bilateral account. 1 Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Kuwa i ti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.A.E. dirhams. 404 Foreign Currency Accounts Residents are free to hold fo re ign currency in cash, or in foreign exchange accounts w i th local banks, or in the fo rm of convertible accounts denominated in Sudanese currency. However, no internal dealings in fo re ign cu r rency, in c lud ing the t r a n s f er of personal possession of fo re ign cu r rency between persons or its use in settlement of local transactions, is permitted except through authorized banks or authorized foreign exchange dealers. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited for protective reasons and others are not being licensed. Permitted imports generally are licensed or accepted for registration in accordance with allocations under the fore ign exchange budget. Certain imports are permitted only when acceptable foreign financing is ob ta ined. Petroleum products are imported only by a state agency. For goods that requ i re i n d i v i d u al l icens ing, import licenses must be obtained f rom the M in is try of Cooper- ation, Commerce, and Supply, but for those goods that are imported through the off ic ial ma rket the licenses must be va l ida ted by the Gene ral Adm in i s t ra t ion for Foreign Exchange. For imports that are settled through the fluctuating free marke t, the licenses must be vali- da ted by commercial banks. Import insu rance norma l ly must be taken out with local companies. Most private sector imports are subject to an advance deposit of 2 per cent of the c. & f. value, payable before va l ida t ion, if the import is financed by commercial banks. Goods that otherwise would be subject to the advance deposit requ irement are exempt when financed w i th suppliers' credit of at least two years' ma tur i ty, provided that the amount of the transaction is at least LSd 500,000. If a letter of credit is opened, the authorized bank usually requires a cash ma rg in of between 10 per cent and 30 per cent. In practice, for many goods whose impor- ta t ion the banks are not allowed to finance, a 100 per cent margin deposit must be made. A stamp du ty of LSd 5 is levied on the application fo rm for each t ran s fer in respect of private sector imports. Most imports are subject to an import surcharge of 10 per cent and a defense tax of 10 per cent ad valorem. There has been an accumulation of arrears on payment for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require approval f rom the General Administration for Foreign Exchange, but payments for interest, commissions, and travel allow- ances require only the approval of commercial banks. Remittances are permitted for fam i ly ma in tenance (up to LSd 360 a person a y e a r ), educational expenses (up to LSd 1,680 a student a year for Western Europe, in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution addition to tu i t ion fees; s tudy in Aus tra l ia, Canada, Japan, and the Un i ted States is exempt f rom this ce i l ing ), and for certain other purposes. Allowances for tourist travel to Egypt are authorized by the commercial banks up to a m ax imum of LSd 300 a person a year. Foreign exchange for travel to countries other than Egypt must be acquired from sources other than bank resources. Exchange for travel must be purchased at the f luc tua t- ing f ree ma rket exchange rate. Salaried foreign na t iona ls not permanen t ly resident in Sudan are permitted to remit their bona fide cu r rent savings to any country other than Israel or South A f r ica. Egyp t ian teachers are allowed to remit in convertible currency 30 per cent of approved bona fide savings and the remainder in clearing dollars. Shipping charges, insurance premiums, profits, interest, and dividends earned by nonres iden ts may be remitted free ly upon pre- sentation of the required documents. The exportation of Sudanese currency over LSd 20 is prohibited. Stamp duties are payable for virtually all payments for invisi- bles. The duty is LSd 5 on applications for remittances of profits and dividends, for other transfers, and for fo re ign exchange for business travel; LSd 2 on applica- tions for foreign exchange for tourism; and from LSd 0.25 to LSd 1 on applications for remittances for other purposes. Certain payments for invisibles are in arrears. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. With the exception of cotton, gum arabic, and livestock, all exports require a license. Exporters must submit an export fo rm to and obtain approval f rom an authorized commercial bank. All commodities are subject to mini- mum export prices. The proceeds of exports must be repatriated within four months f rom the date of ship- men t; w i th the exception of proceeds f rom cotton exports, authorized dealers are allowed to re ta in 50 per cent of export proceeds for import financing ( for cotton exports, the retainable proportion of proceeds is 25 per c e n t ). The balance must be surrendered to the Bank of Sudan. When the terms of payment are cash against documents or sight letter of credit, the proceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the shipping documents; in other cases a surrender date is usually specified. Some ma jor export commodities are exported solely by public sector entities. Exports of some commodities have been prohibited for supply reasons. Exporters and export-oriented industries are allowed to retain a portion of their export proceeds for pur- chases of goods and services abroad provided that such purchases are for purposes directly related to the export business. Certain public corporations engaged in pro- viding services to nonresidents are also permitted to retain a portion of their fore ign exchange receipts for their operations and on conditions determined by exchange control regulations. Re ta ined foreign exchange must be kept with local banks and is required to be sold SUDAN to an authorized dealer if not utilized within a specified period. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals working abroad may open accounts denom ina ted in Sudanese pounds or fore ign exchange accounts by remittance of fore ign exchange which is converted at the fluctuating f ree ma rket rate. Re t rans fer abroad of such amounts is free ly perm i t ted. Moreover, the foreign exchange may be utilized for purchases in duty-free shops in Sudan. Residents are allowed to keep fore ign exchange f rom sources o ther than export pro- ceeds or income f rom tour ism; such foreign exchange can be kept in foreign exchange accounts w i th local or foreign banks. Receipts f rom invisibles other than tour- ism may be re ta ined in fore ign exchange accounts. Travelers en te r ing Sudan may b r ing in any amount in notes and coin of other currencies, but the impor ta t ion of more than LSd 20 in Sudanese currency is fo rb idden. Capital Incoming foreign capital for specified inves tment may be registered and may receive, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. All new investment is converted at the official ma rket rate of LSd 1 = US$1.11. Emigrants of Sudanese nationality may on departure t rans fer up to the equivalent of LSd 1,500 to their new country. Upon final departure from Sudan, resident foreigners may t ran s fer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. However, such transfers must be made f rom sources other than commercial bank resources. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sudan for num isma t ic purposes. Subject to cer ta in con- ditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell in Sudan domestically produced gold. With these excep- tions, residents other than the mone ta ry authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Cooperation, Commerce, and Supply; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on beha lf of the monetary authorities and indus tr ial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for process- ing and then reimported. Changes during 1981 March 1. Import items were classified as fo l lows: (a) goods importable under open general license or those which, when imported on behalf of public sector enterprises, would be under open general license; ( b) goods importable under an annual quota; (c) goods importable on a restricted basis with prior authorization from the relevant ministry; (d) prohibited items; and (e) goods not elsewhere specified as requiring an import license. 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN May 4. Import du t ies on certain motor vehicles, inc lud ing buses and pickup trucks, were raised f rom a range of 100-180 per cent to a range of 180-250 per cent; import duties on alcoholic beverages were also increased. July 15. The unoff ic ial th ird market was legalized, thereby establishing a f ree market for fore ign exchange transactions relating to nonessen t ial imports, travel, pri- vate invisibles ( inc lud ing workers' rem i t tances ), and certain capital t ran s fe rs for which access to other exchange markets was limited. (The market is operated by authorized fore ign exchange dealers and the exchange ra te there is freely determined by market forces.) November 9. An import surcharge of 10 per cent was imposed on v ir tua l ly all imports. In addition, as a revenue-raising measure, the valuation basis for customs du ty for cer ta in products was changed f rom LSd 0.50 per US$1 to LSd 0.9 per US$1; the move was accom- panied by a reduc t ion in ce r ta in excise duties, as well as in export duties, on certain agr icu l tural products. November 9. The official and para l lel exchange rates were un if ied at the ra te of US$1.11 per LSd 1 (LSd 0.90 per US $ 1 ); represen t ing a deprec ia t ion of 44.4 per cent vis-a-vis the rate previously ma in ta ined in the official market (US$2 per LSd 1) and of 11.1 per cent vis-a-vis the parallel ma rket rate (US$1 .25 per LSd 1 ). While previously there existed three exchange markets (offi- cial, parallel, and f r e e ), the exchange rate action involved a change in to a dual exchange market system. December 30. A rescheduling agreement was signed, involving about US$500 million of principal and inter- est in arrears to foreign commercial banks. 406 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position on December 31, 2981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Suriname is the Suriname Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at Sf 1.78876 = US$1. On December 31, 1981 the official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Sf 1.77 and Sf 1.80, respectively, per US$1. Buy- ing and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are set daily by the Central Bank on the basis of the ma rket quo ta t ions for the U.S. dollar and the currencies con- cerned in Amsterdam and the central rate for the U.S. do l lar in Suriname, net of any commissions. There is no exchange ma rket in Sur iname. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Suriname fo rm a l ly accepted the obligations of Ar t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from June 29, 1978. Administration of Control In principle, all fore ign exchange transactions are sub- ject to license, as are transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic currency and other domestic assets. The au thor i ty to grant exchange licenses is vested in the Foreign Exchange Board, which has delegated much of th is au tho r i ty and issues licenses ma in ly for capital transactions and certain invisibles. The Board has authorized the Director of Economic A f fa i rs to issue import and export licenses and has empowered the Cen- tral Bank to provide foreign exchange for import pay- ments (subject to presentation of an import l icense); the la t ter au thor i ty is exercised through the commercial banks, which have all been appointed as authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Board. The authorized banks are empowered to provide foreign exchange for specified current paymen ts w i thout requiring an exchange license. They may also accept free of license those inward trans- fers of foreign exchange that do not result f rom borrow- ing abroad; the tak ing up of foreign loans is subject to approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. Except in the circumstances specified above, the authorized banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange w i thout the sub- mission of an exchange license by the remitter. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Suriname guilders between Suriname and foreign countries other than the Netherlands Antilles are not perm i t ted; they must, in general, be made in convertible currencies,2 although payments to and from the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Nether- lands An t i l les guilders or Suriname guilders. 1 Deutsche ma rk, French f ranc s, Ne ther lands gu i lders, and pounds sterling. 2 Aus tra l ian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Barbados dollars, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, East Carib- bean dollars, French f rancs, Guy ana dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U.S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Suriname guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, while all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be overdrawn and, for certain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a mon th. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonres ident bank s; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may open nonresi- dent accounts on behalf of nonresidents draw ing pen- sions f rom the Government or under company plans. Transfers of up to Sf 1,500 a month may be effected und er a general perm i t, and additional amounts may be transferred under a special permit. Nonresident guilders or foreign currency accounts may not be credited with Sur iname banknotes mailed from abroad or with the fore ign currency equivalent. Imports and Import Payments^ Import licenses are required for all imports.4 Some items, such as specified explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. Private imports of automobiles are restricted to authorized deal- ers. Imports of a few other commodities are prohibited from non-EC sources for protective reasons and are subject to quota when originating in EC countries; these inc lude coffee (roasted and un ro a s t ed ), sugar, powdered m i lk, bu t ter (in packs of 500 grams or less ), most worked and unworked wood, and certain metal fu rn i- ture. The import of prohibited goods may be allowed when supplies are not available in Suriname. Another group of commodities is subject to quota, irrespective of origin; these include matches, prefabri- cated wooden houses, certain types of women's wear and certain other garments, certain footwear, and cer- tain wooden or cane fu rn i tu re. Special conditions are a t tached to the import of copra, rice, bu t ter (in packs of over 500 g r am s ), wheat flour (in packs of over 1,000 g r am s ), veneer, and f u r n i t u re that is on neither the prohibited nor the restricted list; the import of these commodities also is restricted for protective reasons, but the issuance of licenses is subject to adm in is tra t ive deci- 3 On J anu a ry 1, 1982 the import regime was tightened as follows: (a) imports of cer ta in consumer goods, including foo twear, were prohibited; (b) quo tas were placed on imports of ce r ta in garmen ts; (c) the list of goods to be imported by the public Central Import Service was expanded; and (d) a Swiss firm was contracted for preshipment inspection of selected impo rt bills. 4 However, two specific m in ing companies do not need licenses for their own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be g ran ted to fo re ign companies for the ir industrial activities in Suriname, pro- vided that they pay for their imports f rom their own fore ign exchange holdings. 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME sion rather than to quota. A government agency, the Suriname Central Import Service, acts as the sole importer of certain staple foodstuffs. All other imports are licensed freely from any source. The import license serves as an authorization for pay- ment, exchange being made available upon presentation of the license. Most licenses have a validity of six months, within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. A statistical fee of 1.5 per cent is levied on all imports, including imports of gold. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require individual licenses. The commercial banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sf 150 an item a month on account of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so f o r t h ); up to Sf 150 an item a month for advertising expenses and payments for books; up to Sf 300 a year for each remitter in respect of gifts, subject to a limit of Sf 300 a year on any one benefi- ciary's receipt of g if ts from Surinamese residents; and up to Sf 200-300 a month for the support of each member of the remitter's own fam i ly in the Netherlands Antilles or the Netherlands, subject to a limit of Sf 600-900 a month for a family unit (family remittances up to the same amounts to other countries require a license, which is granted upon application). The basic exchange allowance to residents for travel is Sf 750-2,500 a person for each trip (50 per cent of these amounts for children under 14 yea r s ), depending on the destination;5 the authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of exchange for travel not being permitted until three days before departure. Bona fide applications for larger amounts of exchange for travel purposes are approved on a case-by-case basis. Travelers may take out Sf 100 in Suriname currency. The export by resident travelers of foreign banknotes is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident trav- elers may freely purchase and take out foreign currency up to the equivalent of Sf 250. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any foreign banknotes they brought in, provided that amounts in excess of Sf 5,000 were declared upon entry. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income f rom other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an application, sup- ported by an auditor's report, is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses, which for most com- modities are issued freely, provided that the exporter 5 Sf 1,500 for the Caribbean area and Central and South America except Guyana, French Gu iana, and Venezuela; Sf 750 for Guyana and French Guiana; Sf 2,500 for the United States, Canada, and Venezuela; and Sf 2,000 for the rest of the world. 408 under takes to surrender the foreign currency proceeds to an authorized bank w i th in six mon ths of shipment. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, f resh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only with the advice of the Director of Agriculture, An imal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboonwood is restricted, and that of rice is subject to special regulations. Certain expor t ing companies have received special permission f rom the Foreign Exchange Board to ma in ta in current accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts ( inc lud ing export proceeds). All exports are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 per cent of the f.o.b. value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be su r rende red to an authorized bank. Travelers may b r ing in foreign cu r rency w i thout l im it and up to Sf 100 in domestic currency; resident travelers must su r render on re tu rn to Sur iname any fore ign currency in excess of the equivalent of Sf 500. Capital A decision of September 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Board provides for the t r an s f er abroad of capital proceeds f rom the sale to residents or the liquida- t ion of f u l ly or pa r t ly foreign-owned companies or other fo rms of enterprise. The decision covers investments made by nonresidents w i th fore ign cap i tal a f ter Ju ly 31, 1953. It also provides for the annual t ran s fer of profits and for the t ran s fer at any t ime of the fore ign exchange ( in c lud ing loans) imported by the non res ident entre- preneur for the company's use. Profits must be trans- fe r red w i th in three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the firm's wo rk ing capital and may only be transferred in annu al ins ta l lmen ts of 20 per cent. An Investment Law provides add i t ional incentives for private investment. The Foreign Exchange Board g ran ts licenses on appli- cation for transfers abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a m ax imum of Sf 25,000. For estates of more than Sf 25,000, f u r t h er a n n u al t rans fe rs are perm i t ted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The Board allows em igran ts (heads of f am i l y) to t ran s fer in fore ign exchange the equ iva lent of Sf 5,000 in a lump sum, and subsequently Sf 5,000 a year. The head of a repa t r ia t ing fam i ly is permitted to t ran s fer the equ iva lent of Sf 10,000 p lus 10 per cent of his to tal taxable earn- ings in Sur iname accrued du r ing his period of residence; if his Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be t rans fe r red at a rate of Sf 10,000 a year, or at a higher rate when this is necessary to ensure that the entire balance is released w i th in ten years. Subject to certain requirements, residents may pur- chase or sell in specified coun tr ies6 Surinamese corporate 6 Belgium, Canada, France, Federal Republic of G e rm any, I ta ly, Luxembourg, Ne ther lands, Ne the r lands Antilles, Un i ted Kingdom, and United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution shares that have been designated as negotiable by the Foreign Exchange Board. Transfers for investment abroad or for the purchase of other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinamese interests will benef i t. All borrowing from nonresidents by nonbank residents requires prior approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. The fo re ign t ransac t ions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those unde r taken for the account of the ir customers, and banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of fo re ign currency purchased. The Cen tral B ank, however, permits them to place pa rt of their l iqu id f u n ds abroad; in addition, banks have received a general license to place abroad at short term U.S. dol- lars corresponding to balances in nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell on ly to au thor ized gold buyers. Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Board by sale to the Central Bank at Sf 2,110 a k i log r am fine for bars of at least 10 kilo- grams, or at Sf 1.80 a g ram for unwo rked gold w i th an average sme l t ing loss of 6 per cent and an average gold content of 04%ooo.7 Au thor ized gold buyers are per- m i t ted, however, to sell nuggets at free ly agreed prices to the pub l ic for indu s t r ial and a r t is t ic purposes; deal- ings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unwo rked gold, w i th the exception of nuggets, are pro- h ib i ted. As local p roduc t ion does not meet demand for indu s t r ial purposes, the Central Bank impor ts some gold, which it sells to au thor ized gold buye rs. Two kinds of gold coin, one with a face value of Sf 100 and the other Sf 200, are legal tender. Residents 7 These amoun ts are to be adjusted in accordance with the revision of the official U.S. dollar price per troy ounce. SURINAME may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for numis- matic and investment purposes; authorized banks may f ree ly negotiate gold coin among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized indus tr ial and dental users are not allowed without special permis- sion to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry require exchange licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Board; such licenses are not normally granted except for impor ts and exports of coin by au thor ized banks and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au tho r i t ies, producers of gold, and indus t r ial users. Resi- dents arr iv ing f rom abroad, however, may freely b r ing in gold, subject to dec lara t ion and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank within 20 days. Non- resident travelers also may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coin are du ty f ree and those of unworked gold are subject to a du ty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tar iff for gold orna- ments is 60 per cent ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to the statistical fee of 1.5 per cent; in addition, imports are subject to a licens- ing fee of 0.5 per cent. Changes during 1981 February 25. A gold coin with a face value of Sf 200 was issued, together with a silver coin hav ing a face va lue of Sf 25; both are legal tender. September 1. The import du ty on unworked gold was fixed at Sf 1.00 a gram (formerly Sf 0.0375 a g r am ). September 30. The following import measures were in troduced: (a) preferential import duties for EC coun- tries were abolished; and (b) private imports of auto- mobiles were restricted to authorized dealers. 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Swaziland is the Lilangeni (plural ema langen i), which is pegged to the South A f r ican rand at E 1 = R 1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland are based on the floating middle rate of the South African rand against the U.S. dollar. Buying and selling margins, as in South Africa, are held within 0.25 per cent (U.S.$0.0029) of the middle rate. On December 31, 1981 the official buying and selling rates were US$1.0459 and US$1.0439, respectively, per E l. Rates are also quoted for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the pound sterling, and the Swiss franc, based on the Lon- don and New York market quotations for these curren- cies against the U.S. dollar, and for the Kenya shilling and the Zambian kwacha, based on their relationship to the SDR. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There is also a freely floating "financial" rand, which is the local sale and redemption proceeds of South Afri- can securities and other investments in Swaziland owned by nonresidents, capital remittances by emigrants and immigrants, and approved outward capital transfers by residents. The rate is usually at a discount from the commercial rand rate. Exchange Control Territory Swaziland forms part of the Rand Monetary Area, which is a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Monetary Area, and in principle, these are not controlled. In rela- tion to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Swaziland, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Imports and Import Payments Swaziland is a member of a customs union with Botswana, Lesotho, and South Africa, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quantity of goods originating outside the customs union. Insofar as Swaziland imports goods directly from countries outside the customs union, such imports are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations. Import licenses are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. 410 Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue and similar reasons, but most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments is delegated to authorized dealers up to established limits. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of E 4,000 a calendar year for an adult and E 2,000 for a child; a higher basic allowance can be obtained for business and medical travels. To use credit cards outside the Rand Mone tary Area, a resident card- holder must complete a letter of undertaking prior to depar ture; the maximum foreign exchange cost that can be incurred through the use of one or more credit cards is limited to 50 per cent of the approved travel allow- ance and is counted as a part of such allowance. Capital Inward capital transfers should be properly docu- mented in order to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident, without prior approval. Applications for most outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. Blocked emalangeni, apart from being released to emigrants through the financial rand in specified instances, may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments as may be approved by the Central Bank. Changes during 1981 March 4. Authorization was given for advance pay- ment of up to one third of the ex-factory price of imports of capital goods if such imports could not otherwise be made. March 4. Limits and controls on invisible payments were eased as follows: (a) the settling-in allowance for an emigrant was doubled; (b) business directors' fees for nonresidents were also doubled; and (c) rental income on fixed property and income accruing to non- residents from wills of individuals became freely remit- table abroad without reference to the Central Bank. March 20. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel was doubled to the equivalent of E 4,000 a calen- dar year for an adult and E 2,000 for a child; the basic allowance for business and medical travels was also increased. August 31. The limits on allowances were raised, particularly those for disabled persons and persons over 60 years of age. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution December 17. A regulation was introduced that credit cards could not be used outside the Rand Monetary Area unless a letter of undertaking was completed by the resident cardholder prior to departure. The maxi- mum foreign exchange cost that could be incurred through the use of one or more credit cards was limited to 50 per cent of the approved travel allowance and would be counted as a part of such an allowance. SWAZILAND 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sweden is the Swedish Krona. In managing the exchange rate of the krona, the Sveriges Riksbank (the central bank) is guided by a trade- weighted index based on a basket of 15 currencies of Sweden's most important trading partners. In con- structing the index the Swedish authorities established two criteria to be met by each country and currency included in the basket: (1) the country had to account for at least 1 per cent of Sweden's total foreign trade (exports plus imports) during 1972-76 and (2) each currency had to be quoted daily on the foreign exchange market in Stockholm. The weights are proportional to Sweden's foreign trade with each of the countries whose currencies are included in the index with the exception that the weight of the U.S. dollar has been doubled and that of the other currencies adjusted accordingly. To take account of changes in average trade shares the weights are adjusted each year (on April 1) on the basis of trade statistics for the last five calendar years. At present, the weights are as follows (base period 1976-80): Deutsche mark U.S. dollar Pound sterling Norwegian krone Danish krone Finnish markka French franc Netherlands guilder Belgian franc Italian lira Japanese yen Swiss franc Austrian schilling Spanish peseta Canadian dollar Total 17.1 16.5 13.1 9.4 9.3 7.3 5.6 5.2 3.7 3.6 2.6 2.4 1.8 1.2 1.2 100.0 The index value of 111 represents the benchmark for the effective value following the devaluation on Sep- tember 14, 1981 (August 29, 1977 = 100). The exchange rate is managed so as to allow only limited fluctuations around this benchmark. In connection with the decision to devalue the krona in September 1981, it was decided to establish an interval of 107-111 with- in which the Riksbank may change the benchmark; any such change will be announced officially by the Riks- bank in advance. An average of the daily index values is published weekly by the Riksbank. The market buy- ing and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dol- lars, the intervention currency, on December 31, 1981 were SKr 5.5125 and SKr 5.5175, respectively, per US$1. Spot rates for other currencies are established 412 on the basis of the cross rates in international markets. Forward market rates are left to the interplay of market forces. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. They may also purchase foreign currencies, spot, from foreign banks and other nonresidents against any for- eign currency or Swedish kronor credited to an External Kronor Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). They may sell foreign currencies, spot, to for- eign banks and other nonresidents against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor debited to an Exter- nal Kronor Account. Authorized banks may conclude with residents other than banks forward exchange transactions in foreign currencies against Swedish kronor covering current and authorized payments for (1) unlimited periods in respect of receipts on the one hand, and payments for imports, freight, and charter services on the other; (2) periods not exceeding 12 months in respect of repayment of loans abroad for refinancing of credits granted in Swedish kronor in connection with Swedish exports; and ( 3 )6 months in respect of other payments. Forward transactions may be concluded only to cover payments for which an agreement exists. However, export firms, when tendering, may make forward sales of settlement on the envisaged date of payment or on the expiry date for tendering. A bank may not credit a customer with any profit on canceled forward transac- tions. Under specified conditions, Swedish residents who have raised loans in foreign currency may buy forward the currency of the loan against another foreign currency. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks, forward, any foreign currency against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Autho- rized banks may buy from or sell to foreign banks, on a forward basis, any foreign currency against another for- eign currency or Swedish kronor for a period not exceed- ing 12 months. Such transactions with foreign banks may, however, be for periods exceeding 12 months if made in cover of forward transactions with residents. Sweden formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Riksbank through its Exchange Control Board. The Board's deci- sions may be appealed to the Governing Board of the Riksbank. Authorized banks and some other authorized agencies implement the exchange control regulations. All current payments (as defined in Sweden's exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution control leg is la t ion) are exempt f rom exchange control, provided that they are made through an authorized bank in accordance with the currency prescriptions issued by the R iksbank. The authorized banks have been granted general licenses giving them power to approve various payments that are subject to exchange control. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Commerce, except those for foods tuffs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Marke t ing Board, and those for gold and gold alloys, which are issued by the Riksbank. Prescription of Currency Payments to and f rom foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kroner through any External Kroner Account (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kroner with authorized banks in Swe- den: External Kronor Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other nonresident accounts are Foreign Exchange Accounts, Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Sweden, and Foreign Wages Accounts. External Kronor Accounts may be held by nonresi- dents domiciled abroad. These accounts may be credited with transfers from other External Kronor Accounts, with authorized payments to foreign countries by resi- den ts of Sweden, and with sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for transfers to any other External Kronor Account and for authorized payments to resi- dents of Sweden, and they may be converted into any foreign currency. External Kronor Accounts do not normally bear interest. Restricted Accounts are held by persons who have been residents of Sweden but became nonresidents a f t er emigrating. The accounts may be credited with amor t i- zation paymen ts on loans granted before emigration and interest accrued to, and earn ings from, assets in Sweden and proceeds from sales of assets in Sweden owned by the account holders. The sale of unlisted Swedish securities, however, requires authorization. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for payments in Swe- den for expenses related to the administration and ma in tenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; maintenance expenses of the account holder and his fam i ly; minor merchandise purchases; taxes and other official charges; g i f ts to, and for the support of, persons domiciled in Sweden; amortization and interest pay- ments on loans raised by an emigrant before emigrating; and purchases of Swedish bonds denominated solely in Swedish kroner, and of real estate. Foreign Exchange Accounts1 are held in foreign cur- 1 Residents may also ma in ta in Foreign Exchange Accoun ts in fo re ign cu r renc ies. Such accounts may be cred i ted w i th au tho r ized receipts in fo re ign currencies and debited for authorized payments in fore ign cur- rencies. Payment of in terest on such accounts is allowed for up to 60 days, provided that the funds so deposited rema in on deposit for at least seven days. SWEDEN rencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized paymen ts in foreign currencies due to the account holder and with accrued interest. Balances on such accounts may be used for making authorized payments in foreign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with transfers from abroad of fo r- eign currencies, or transfers from External Kronor Accounts, or from other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for trans- fers to any other Foreign Exchange Account or to External Kronor Accounts. Balances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other foreign currency or Swedish kroner. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Swe- den may be maintained by banks and may be credited with payments in Sweden in favor of an account holder and with accrued interest; they may be used for with- drawals in kroner in Sweden. Foreign Wages Accounts are intended to facilitate payment of salaries, wages, and other remunerations of persons sent abroad f rom Sweden and employed by Swedish employers. The accounts may be opened with authorized banks without prior determination of resi- dential status. However, residents may use the funds on these accounts when abroad only for maintenance expenses and purchases for personal use, while a non- resident may use such funds for current payments in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of some agricultural and fishery products, practically all goods are free f rom quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported f rom countries other than Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. However, most imports from these countries are liberalized. Some imports f rom Japan require licenses. Imports of certain textile prod- ucts f rom some countries and territories (Brazil, Hong Kong, Ind ia, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Ma l ta, Mauritius, Pakistan, the Philippines, Portugal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand, and Yugosla- v i a) are limited through special arrangements. In addi- t ion, imports of rubber boots from any country other than member countries of the EC or the EFTA are subject to global quota restrictions, and imports of speci- fied textiles and garments from any source other than EC or EFTA countries (w i th the exception of Po r tuga l ), as well as imports of most iron and steel products from all countries, are subject to import licensing for sur- veillance purposes. Payments for imports, including normal advance pay- ments, may, as current payments, be made without per- mission through authorized banks and without the fo r- mality of presenting an import license. If the conditions specified for current payments (see section on Payments 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN for Invisibles, below) are not met, an exchange control permit is required. Importers are permitted to utilize foreign commercial credits, provided that these do not exceed what is regarded as customary. Payments for Invisibles The exchange control regulations define and list those categories of payments abroad that are considered as current payments. Persons domiciled in Sweden may make such payments without restriction in favor of per- sons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital payments are not made in the guise of current payments. Payments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 1,000 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks; however, if they constitute partial payments of a capital nature, the approval of the Riksbank is required. Life insurance premiums in excess of SKr 1,000 a person a calendar year require the approval of the Riksbank; such approval is normally given freely for both existing and new policies. For tourism, recreational travel, or study abroad, resi- dents may acquire and take out freely up to SKr 6,000 a trip in Swedish and foreign banknotes and coin and other means of payment; if they wish to stay abroad for at least four weeks, they may acquire and take out for- eign exchange up to SKr 12,000 a person. Applications to the Riksbank for additional amounts are treated liberally. Authorized banks and other authorized agen- cies may allocate to residents, without restriction, exchange for business travel abroad. Swedish residents while abroad may open accounts abroad, provided that such accounts are closed at the termination of such a stay and that the amount on the closing date is returned to Sweden. The export of Swedish banknotes in denominations larger than SKr 100 is prohibited. With this exception, nonresidents leaving Sweden may export freely Swedish and foreign banknotes and other means of payment which have been acquired abroad or from an autho- rized bank or other authorized agency in Sweden. How- ever, without specific permission, not more than SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coin may be taken out of Sweden. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports, with some exceptions such as ships, scrap metal, and pig iron, to the EC are exempt from license if payment is to be received in conformity with the general regulations (see section on Prescription of Cur- rency, above). Proceeds from exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a foreign currency account with a Swedish authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank for Swedish kronor. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same treat- ment as those from exports (see section on Exports and 414 Export Proceeds, above). Each person entering Sweden may for traveling purposes bring in unlimited amounts of banknotes, coin, and other means of payment. Swe- dish banknotes, however, may be only in denominations of SKr 100 or less. Capital Direct investment abroad by Swedish residents requires individual authorization, which normally is granted. Authorization may be conditional on financing abroad by a loan in foreign currency or from an authorized bank. The loans must have an average maturity of at least five years. Such financing is not required for investments in sales companies and other companies which to a significant extent give rise to exports from Sweden, for investments involving relatively small amounts, or for investments in countries that are the main recipients of Swedish development assistance. Residents may, on application, transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at up to but not more than SKr 175,000 for each family. New investment in South Africa and Namibia has been banned since July 1, 1979. A Swedish resident when emigrating is permitted to transfer up to SKr 200,000, subject to verification by the Riksbank. Before obtaining permission from the R iksbank to transfer the remainder of his funds, the emigrant is required to demonstrate his intention of ma in ta in ing that status by living abroad during a so-called qualification period. Determination of this qualification period is tied to the assessment of residen- tial status in terms of taxation law. When Swedish residents emigrate for a limited period, applications for t ran s fe rs in excess of the initial SKr 200,000 are con- sidered in a restrictive manner. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresidents are per- mi tted. Authorized banks may freely approve payments abroad in respect of various categories of remittances, including those in respect of gifts and support payments up to SKr 5,000 a calendar year. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts from abroad on account of life, pension, and annuity con- tracts; contractual amortization of their investments; the sale of foreign securities, real estate abroad, and personal property held by them abroad; and gifts and inheritances. Residents may accept other kinds of capi- tal receipts f rom abroad only upon approval from the Riksbank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other than normal suppliers' credits f rom nonresidents must receive authorization to do so; enterprises are normally permitted to borrow foreign currency abroad or from an authorized bank for periods of at least five years on average and for amounts of at least SKr 10 million, with the exception of borrowings by enterprises owned by local governments ( for which special arrangements apply) and borrowings for a few other specified purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The Riksbank permits exporters to cover their normal suppliers' credits through borrowing in foreign currency abroad or from an authorized bank. A Swedish exporter may, without permission from the Riksbank, raise such a loan for up to six mon ths f rom an authorized bank in order to finance such a credit which he, as a supplier, normally provides for not more than six months. The Riksbank normally permits a Swedish exporter to raise a loan in foreign currency abroad or from an authorized bank in order to finance production costs of ma jor export orders. Suppliers' credits granted by Swedish shipyards may be refinanced in fore ign currency abroad or in an authorized bank even if the credit serves to finance sales of ships to Swedish shipowners. Swedish importers can also be granted permission to take up credit in foreign currency abroad or in an authorized bank to finance imports. A Swedish importer may, with- out permission from the Riksbank, raise such a loan for up to six months from an authorized bank in order to finance his own imports, if suppliers' credits are normal- ly available to him for not more than six months. Bor- rowing by way of suppliers' credit is not controlled, and other borrowing to finance imports is approved where the borrowing itself and the repayment terms are in con- formity with commercial practice. In this context, autho- rized banks are, upon application, permitted to extend to the foreign counterpart of a Swedish exporter or impor- ter credit intended to finance certain specified import and export transactions, and to refinance such credit through a corresponding foreign borrowing. Permission for the financing of the export and import transactions men- tioned above requires that the credits conform to normal commercial practice. AB Svensk Exportkredit is allowed to provide credit in accordance with the ordinances (1981:665 and 1981:357) on financing export credits with state support. Subject to these regulations AB Svensk Exportkredit may, without a permit from the Riksbank ( 1) supply credit to a Swedish exporter or an authorized bank or to a foreign buyer or his bank and (2) transfer credit from an exporter or an autho- rized bank to a foreign buyer or his bank. Residents are not normally permitted to extend financial loans to nonresidents. Under certain conditions, authorized banks may be granted permission to borrow abroad for purposes of on-lending to residents. Thus, authorized banks may, under a Riksbank permit, raise loans abroad in foreign currency for on-lending to resident enterprises for not more than six months for financing imports of merchan- dise and providing credits for exports of merchandise. Authorized banks may also raise loans abroad in foreign currency for long-term on-lending to companies (with the exception of those owned by local governments), primarily those that are small or medium sized. Such loans must have an average life of at least five years and the amount in each case may not exceed SKr 10 mil- lion. The borrowing company is not required to obtain SWEDEN a permit, except in the case of borrowing for a few specified purposes. Foreign-owned companies in Sweden usually are per- mitted to borrow at long term from the parent com- panies. Generally, the repayment of foreign credits at any date other than that specified in the contract requires a new authorization from the Riksbank; such authoriza- tions are granted restrictively. However, the Riksbank normally permits companies, local authorities, and authorized banks to (1) redeem the loan in advance by raising a new loan abroad with at least the same average life as the remaining average life of the redeemed loan and (2) redeem bond loans by purchases in the market not more than nine months in advance of the final redemption date. Permission is needed for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresidents; bond issues in favor of other Scandinavian countries and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop- ment have been admitted. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require autho- rization, which normally is given, provided that not more than 50 per cent of each individual investment (investments below SKr 5 million excepted) is financed with domestic credit. The transfer of the liquidation proceeds of such investments, including appreciation, requires authorization, which is always given. In con- nection with nonresidents' purchases of real estate in Sweden for recreational purposes, residents may, with- out authorization, both receive payment from, and grant credit to, nonresidents. This also applies to nonresi- dents' purchases of real estate for other purposes if they come to live in Sweden. Existing loans connected with the estate may, when older than one year, be trans- ferred to the nonresident. Furthermore, banks are per- mitted to assist in the financing of the purchase with a new loan of up to SKr 50,000. Investment by nonresi- dents in Swedish real estate always requires approval according to regulations other than exchange control regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell portfolio holdings of foreign securities to nonresidents. The pur- chase of both listed and unlisted foreign securities by residents from nonresidents requires authorization. As a rule, such authorization is not granted. However, authorized banks and stockbrokers are authorized to purchase from nonresidents, on behalf of residents, listed foreign securities and listed Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies using the proceeds f rom sales to nonresidents of Swedish held securities denominated in foreign currencies, provided that the purchase is made within six months of the correspond- ing sale. Residents may without authorization buy from other residents foreign securities and Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies. A general license permits the repurchase from abroad of listed Swedish securities denominated in kroner, pro- vided that an affidavit can be produced showing either ( 1) that at no time during the last five calendar years 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN have the securities been owned by a person domiciled in Sweden or (2) that the securities have been acquired with the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities from a person domiciled in Sweden. The affidavit is not required when the securities are registered with the Securities Register Center. The authorized banks and stockbrokers may handle purchases by nonresidents of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kroner when payment is to be made in the form of other similar securities, provided that (1) the foreign seller and buyer are the same person in each case; (2) the aforementioned affidavit requirements are met or the securities are regis- tered with the Securities Register Center; (3) foreign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; and (4) not more than three months pass between the date of the purchase from and the date of the sale to the foreign party. The export of securities owned by non- residents other than Swedish emigrants is not restricted. Ceilings are placed on the net foreign exchange hold- ings of each authorized bank. Banks may grant only normal overdrafts to nonresidents. They may incur for- eign exchange liabilities, but may not maintain a net liability in any one currency. This, together with the permission to pay interest on foreign exchange deposits held by nonresidents, enables the banks to borrow for- eign currency from nonresidents for on-lending (but not in the form of kroner) to foreign banks. Swedish banks may not borrow abroad freely in order to sell the pro- ceeds against Swedish kroner in the market, but under certain conditions they may be granted permission to borrow abroad to relend in Sweden (see above). Non- residents' holdings of kroner in External Kroner Accounts must not be "abnormal," and, with minor exceptions, they cannot earn interest. Gold Gold in any form may be held, purchased, and sold within Sweden. Imports and exports of gold and gold alloys require licenses issued by the Riksbank; the types of gold affected are unmanufactured gold and most types of semimanufactured gold. Import licenses are normally granted to jewelers, dental laboratories, and users of gold for industrial and scientific purposes, as well as to persons and firms importing for resale to these categories of users. As a general rule, no licenses are issued for the import of gold to be held on private account. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold, such as jewelry, may be made freely without a license. Changes during 1981 April 10. The Bank of Sweden revised the weights a t tached to 6 of the 15 currencies in the composite to which the Swedish krona is pegged. The revision involved an increase in the weights for the U.S. dollar, Finnish ma rkka, French franc, and Italian lira, and a decrease in those for the Danish krone and Norwegian krone. June 9. The Exchange Control Board decided that, without departing from the principle that direct invest- ments abroad were required to be financed abroad, it would be possible, as a beginning, to grant exemptions to a greater extent as regards investments in the Nordic area. September 14. The Swedish krona was devalued by 10 per cent in relation to the composite of 15 curren- cies. The new benchmark for the basket became 111 (based on August 29, 1977 = 100). In connection with this decision to devalue the krona, it was decided to establish an interval of 107-111 within which the Riksbank may change the benchmark; any such change would be announced officially by the Riksbank in advance. October 20. The Exchange Control Board announced changes in existing regulations as follows: (a) it would no longer be necessary for applicants for direct invest- ment abroad to prove a beneficial effect therefrom on Sweden's balance of current payments; (b) interest income could be paid on exchange accounts for resi- dents for up to 60 days, provided that the f u n ds so deposited would remain on deposit for at least seven days; and (c) the prohibition on forward transactions with foreign banks in the currency of a third country was lifted. November 24. The Exchange Control Board increased the allocation of foreign exchange for emigrants from SKr 100,000 to SKr 200,000 and decided that Swedish residents while abroad might open accounts abroad, pro- vided that such accounts were closed at the termination of such a stay and the amount on the closing date was returned to Sweden. 416 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND1 (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss Franc. The Swiss National Bank does not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined, in principle, on the basis of under ly ing demand and supply conditions in the exchange mar- kets. However, the Swiss Na t ional Bank intervenes when necessary in order to counter disorderly condi- tions in the market. The pr inc ipal in terven t ion cur- rency is the U.S. dollar; the ma rket rate for the Swiss f r anc in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1981 was SwF 1.79850 per US$1. All settlements may be made at free market rates. Foreign banknotes are negotiated freely in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import and export the Princi- pality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory. For purposes of exchange control, na tu ral persons domiciled in Liechtenstein are considered by Switzerland as residents and so are jur id ical persons ( inc lud ing b a n k s ), other than letterbox companies, operating business in either country. However, this rule does not apply if the acquisition of Swiss real estate is involved. Liechtenstein is considered a foreign country for purposes of the Federal Law on Banks and Savings Institutions. Administration of Control Authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting on the advice of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Depart- ment of Foreign A f fa i r s. The Swiss Na t ional Bank is the executive au thor i ty in matters of currency for bo th Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any currency. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, imports into Switzerland may be made freely. The importation of butter and alcohol is subject to state control. The only commodi- ties subject to license, irrespective of their origin, are certain agricultural products, soap, detergents, and cer- ta in fuels. Import permits for goods under license are generally granted freely, but global quotas are estab- lished for certain agr icu l tural products. Imports of textiles f rom specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Payments for imports from all countries may be made freely. 1 Switzerland is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The export of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through ind iv idual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part w i th the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. Export proceeds are free ly disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles are f ree ly disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Capital Transfers of capital may be made without forma l i ty except that bank credits and other bank lending to non- residents, when exceeding Sw F 10 million each and w i th a ma tu r i ty of 12 months or more, require permis- sion. Permission is also required for foreign bond issues in Switzerland and for direct participations by Swiss banks in Eurobond issues. Fur thermore, all pro- posed first placements of medium-term negotiable paper (no tes) in amounts of Sw F 3 million or more must be submitted to the National Bank for authorization. The National Bank will not approve fore ign bond issues with an original ma tu r i ty of less than nine years, while the acceptable range of ma tur i ty for notes is from three to eight years with m in imum subparticipations of Sw F 50,000. There is a limited secondary market in notes. Foreign banks, governments, and monetary authorities may acquire participations in notes denom- inated in Swiss francs provided that they agree to hold such participations to ma tur i ty. Such notes must rema in deposited with a bank that has participated in the issuing syndicate, for account of the investor. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. In 1981 the banks were not subject to reserve requirements; they are permitted to pay interest on Swiss f ranc deposits ( inc lud ing "fiduciary" or "trustee" f u n d s) received f rom nonresidents. Banks and finance companies are required to report monthly their forward and dealer positions (their own assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, spot and fo rw a rd) in foreign currencies; a select number of them have to report their dealer position on a weekly basis. Swiss banks may participate in loans with multiple currency clauses. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons of fore ign na t iona l i ty who are domi- ciled or resident abroad require approval by the canton where the property is situated. The approvals of the 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND cantons are subject to supervision and appeal by the Confederation. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Ziirich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold in certain forms are subject to customs duty (bars and certain coin are exempt) or sales tax. Sales of gold and gold coins are subject to the retail sales tax. Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold. Changes during 1981 January 1. The m in imum capital ratio for a com- mercial bank, hitherto defined in terms of liabilities, was redefined in terms of assets; in addition, the capital ratio for foreign nonbanking assets of the banks was fixed at 1.5 percentage points above the 40 per cent ra t io for their domestic nonbanking assets. January 29. The National Bank required the banks to submit by mid-March 1981 data on planned public bond issues by foreign borrowers dur ing the period April- June 1981. May 27. Imports of soap and detergents (in excess of 20 kilograms) as well as their inpu ts were subjected to prior licensing. May 31. The June 1975 gentlemen's agreement between the National Bank and the major banks active in export financing, under which the banks were given preferential rediscounting facilities for long-term export credits, expired. June 15. The June 1976 gentlemen's agreement (most recently extended on June 15, 1980) between the National Bank and the Swiss Bankers' Association, under which the banks agreed to abstain from trans- actions of an obviously speculative na tu re against the Swiss franc, lapsed. July 13. The National Bank announced that for the first time, and as part of its policy of controlled inter- nationalization of the Swiss franc, it had decided to issue up to Sw F 500 million worth of its own notes to a foreign monetary authority. (Two issues of Sw F 100 million each, ma tur ing in one and two years, were made on July 6 and July 8, respectively; the balance of Sw F 300 million was issued by the National Bank in late August 1981.) August 19. The Federal Government decided to extend un t il August 31, 1983 the scheme for insu r ing exporters against exchange rate risks. (The scheme was originally scheduled to expire on September 3D, 1981.) In addition, certain changes were made in the scheme, including an increase from 2 per cent to up to 5 per cent in the proportion of exchange rate losses to be borne by the exporter, depending on the currency. October 20. The Na t ional Bank announced that it would, in the fu tu re, perm it the swapping of U.S. dollar debts of multilateral lending agencies for Swiss f r anc obligations incurred by other borrowers only if the Swiss franc obligations were at least 18 months old and if the original Swiss f ranc loan was authorized by the National Bank in accordance w i th its capital export rules. November 9. The National Bank announced that from the first quarter of 1982 it would no longer require the banks to submit advance notice of planned public bond issues by foreign borrowers dur ing the coming quarter, but would coordinate the dates for public bond issues. November 25. The currency treaty between Switzer- land and Liechtenstein entered into effect, under which all Swiss measures under the National Bank Law have fu ll va l id i ty in Liechtenstein without a separate approval by the latter's Government and with the National Bank empowered to check compliance with such measures in Liechtenstein. November 30. The system expired under which exporters were permitted since December 1978 to acquire currency options (Devisenbezugsrecht) ena- bling them to unwind up to 40 per cent of their forward exchange commitments from export proceeds without a loss. December 28. It was announced that with effect f rom January 1, 1982 purchases of gold and gold coins by central banks would be exempt f rom the 5.6 per cent retail sales tax. (The tax was reintroduced on retail transactions in gold and gold coins on January 1, 1980.) 418 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at LS 3.925 = US$1 in the official marke t. On Apr il 22, 1981 the Syrian Arab Republic re-established a parallel ma rket along with the official market. The parallel market covers most private transactions, inc lud ing import paymen ts by the private sector and private rem i t tances and tour ism transactions, while the off ic ial market covers all transac t ions of the public sector and specified export transactions of the private sector. The Syrian Arab Republic confines its buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar within LS3.90 and LS 3.95, respectively, per US$1 in the official marke t; on December 31, 1981 the official buy- ing and selling rates were LS 3.90 and LS 3.95, respec- tively, per US$1. The parallel ma rket is operated by the Commercial Bank of Syria and, in principle, is to be managed in a flexible manner. Buying and selling rates for all ma jor currencies are quoted on the basis of the official market rates and the parallel market rates for the U.S. dollar and the ma rket rates for the currencies concerned in marke ts abroad.1 Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is deter- mined by the M in i s t ry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Economy and Foreign Trade and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions by the Exchange Office. Authorized commercial banks, travel agencies, hotels, and airline companies may deal in foreign exchange. The commer- cial banks may open letters of credit or accept bills for collection only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. At present there is one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria, which has been authorized by the Exchange Office to open letters of credit and accept bills for collection without prior approval, pro- vided that cer ta in conditions are fu lf i l led. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. Proceeds of exports to all countries may be obtained in any con- vertible currency, and such proceeds may also be received in banknotes denom ina ted in convertible cur- rencies and declared at the border posts of entry. Pre- scription of currency requirements are not applied to 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Iraqi d inars, Italian lire, Jo rdan dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. outgoing payments. All payments to and receipts from Egypt, Israel, and South Afr ica are prohibited. The Syrian Arab Republic ma in ta ins b i la te ral payments agreements with the People's Republic of China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Sri Lanka, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be cred- ited with the proceeds of fore ign currenc ies sold to the authorized bank and w i th paymen ts for goods. They may be debited without prior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the coun t ry of the account holder and for expenses in the Syrian A r ab Repub l ic. Nonresidents may open foreign currency accoun ts in the Syrian Arab Republic; they are not requ ired to present evidence that they have sources of income abroad. Resident nationals wishing to open such fore ign accounts are required to present wr i t ten evidence as to the origin of the funds to be t rans fe r red. T rans fe rs abroad f rom these accounts may be made freely. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonres iden ts temporar i ly resident in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in set- t lement currencies, th rough paymen ts conventions, or by diplomatic and UN missions and their s taffs. Per- m i t ted credits include the local currency proceeds of fo re ign currency brought in at the parallel exchange market rate and amounts corresponding to import pay- ments that are not t ran s fe r red. Debits for local expen- d i tures are completely free, and debits for expenditures abroad also are permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities o r ig ina t ing in Egypt, Israel, or South A f r ica are prohibited. M any basic commodi- ties ( inc lud ing green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and certain ag r icu l tu ral mach ine ry) are imported only by state t rad ing agencies or, for their own account, by certain other official agencies. Agen- cies exclusively qua l if ied to impo rt may impo rt certain commodities to meet the raw ma ter ial needs of the private sector. Imports are divided into two categories: ( 1) imports prohibited by decree and specified in a Prohibited List, which comprises mostly goods that are produced domestically, including some textile products (how- ever, waivers may be granted in order to meet the needs of indu s t ry or to obtain supplies of f o o d s t u f f s ); and (2) all other goods. In principle, impor ts must come direct f rom the coun try of origin, w i thout the in terven t ion of any foreign firm; the M in is try of Economy and Foreign Trade has the au thor i ty, how- ever, to permit certain goods to be imported f rom countries other than the country of origin. 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC All imports, except those valued at less than LS 2,000 (LS 500 for imports from Lebanon) require import licenses before the placing of orders. The state trading agencies' operations are governed by the annual foreign exchange budget. On the basis of the budget, these agencies submit documentation on their import require- ments to the banks and the customs authorities, and import licenses are automatically issued. Certain imports (not appearing in the list of prohibited imports) from Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are exempt f rom license, in accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement. In such cases an autho- rization to import is granted in response to a written request. For the private sector, importers are entitled to import specified raw materials, capital goods, consumer goods, and spare parts. A noninterest-bearing advance import deposit is required in order to obtain an import license; the deposits are at rates of 25 per cent, 50 per cent, and 70 per cent of import value. The 25 per cent rate of deposit applies to imports of foods tuffs, pharma- ceutical and chemical products, and raw materials; deposits of 50 per cent are required for imports of construction materials, machinery, and office equip- ment, while the 75 per cent deposit rate applies to all other products. Licenses to import specified items that normally are prohibited (certain luxury consumer goods), up to a value of LS 70,000 in a 12-month period, are granted on request to merchants certified by the Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry of Supply and Internal Trade and whose names appear on the list of payers of income tax published by the Min- istry of Finance. No licenses are required for imports in this category where the value does not exceed LS 2,000 an item a month. Foreign currency accounts may be debited freely for import payments, provided that a license is obtained, when necessary. There are limited import facilities for travelers arriving from abroad. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, including raw materials, petro- leum, and petroleum products. In addition, there is a unified import surcharge, which has replaced all the previous special levies on imports (a statistical tax, a consumption tax, a defense tax, a school tax, a mari- time transport tax, and a harbor t a x ). Payments for imports by the public sector are made at the official market rate by letters of credit, time draf ts, or on a collection basis, or by crediting a non- resident account or a temporary resident account; pay- ments for imports by the private sector are made at the parallel market rate. The importer submits the import license and the pro forma invoice to the Com- mercial Bank of Syria, which then opens the letters of credit or accepts the bills for collection. Approval by the Exchange Office is not required. Insurance for 420 imports under documentary credit and most private sector impor ts must be effec ted locally. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles must be made at the parallel market rate while trade-re la ted transac t ions of the public sector and cer ta in other specified payments are made at the official market rate. Both residents and nonresidents may free ly take out fo re ign banknotes. Residents trave l ing abroad may also take w i th them other foreign exchange purchased at the parallel mar- ket rate as follows: for travel to Lebanon, the equiva- lent of LS 200 a t r ip; for travel to Jordon, LS 500 a trip; for travel to other A rab coun tr ies (except Algeria, the Libyan A rab Jamah i r iya, Morocco, and Tun is ia) and to Cyprus and Turkey, LS 2,500 a tr ip; and for travel to other countries ( in c lud ing Algeria, the Libyan Arab Jamah ir iya, Morocco, and T u n i s i a ), the equiva- lent of LS 5,000 a trip. For ch i ldren between the ages of two and ten, the allowances are 50 per cent of these amounts. Workers on secondment to a fore ign coun try may take w i th them fo re ign exchange up to the equiva- lent of LS 500. For travel to paymen ts agreement countries, 50 per cent of the travel allocation must be taken up th rough the clearing account concerned (30 per cent for travel on off ic ial bu s ine s s ). On depar- ture, residents of Syrian n a t ion a l i ty must pay an exit tax of LS 11.50 a person. Fixed allocations are m a in t a in ed for other transac- tions in invisibles, as fo l lows: 60 per cent of the salaries received by fo re ign techn ic ians and experts employed in the Syrian A rab Republic; 50 per cent of the salaries of personnel of fore ign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian A rab Republic; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for d iv idends accruing to nonresi- dents f rom Syrian securities; and LS 250 a person a month for private donations and charities. In all cases, applications for add i t ional amoun ts must be submitted to the Exchange Office. Nonresidents leaving the coun- try are perm i t ted to take out LS 100 in Syrian currency, and residents LS 25. No approvals are gran ted for add i t ional amoun ts. Non res iden ts leaving the country are allowed to reconvert Syrian currency into fore ign exchange up to the equ iva lent of LS 500 upon showing evidence of hav ing purchased the currency from an official dealer. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cottonseed, and the ir derivatives are na t iona l ized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton A u t h o r i t y. Exports of petroleum are hand led by the Petroleum M a rk e t ing Office. Exports of cer ta in other commod i t ies also are reserved for government agencies, s ta te t r ad ing agen- cies, or specified companies. Exports of a few goods to all coun tr ies and all exports to Egypt, Israel, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exports of the m a in products and of all goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution other exports, licenses are not required. For most exports, however, a repatriation comm i tment is required by which the exporter unde r takes to b r ing the proceeds to the Syrian Arab Republic and surrender them to the Commercial Bank of Syria w i th in six months a f t er the date of export. The proceeds of exports must be sur- rendered at the official ma rket rate, except that speci- fied percentages of cer ta in commodities exported by both the public and private sectors must be surrendered at the para l lel ma rket rate.2 The Commercial Bank of Syria may accept prepaymen ts for exports of Syrian products by residents and nonresidents w i thout refer- r ing to the Central Bank of Syria. Certain manu fac- tured exports receive subsidies from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. Exports of f ru i ts, vegetables, and olives, and crude 011 and its derivatives are subject to an export tax of 12 per cent ad valorem. Exports of other agricultural products are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 9 per cent plus 3 per mill in case of export by sea. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom trade-related transactions by the public sector and other specified transactions must be sold at the official rate and those from other invisibles at the parallel market rate. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in unlim- ited foreign exchange in any form. Foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents. Nonresidents are permitted to bring in not more than LS 100 in Syrian currency. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers by the public sector take place at the official market rate, while transactions by the pr iva te sector are determined 2 The percentages requ ired to be surrendered at the parallel market ra te are as follows ( the rema inder being at the official r a t e ): textiles (60 per cen t ), engineering and chemical products (30-70 per cen t), and agricultural products (50-60 per cent). SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC by the Foreign Exchange Office of the Central Bank on a case-by-case basis. Imports of private funds in the form of foreign exchange are free for pr iva te individ- uals, whether residents or nonresidents. The export of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office, as does most borrowing abroad. Order No. 265 of June 10, 1970 provides special fac i l i t ies for the invest- ment of funds of imm ig ran ts and of na t iona ls of Arab states in the economic development of the Syrian Arab Republic. Investment guaran tee agreements have been signed with France, the Federal Repub l ic of Germany, Switzerland, and the United States. Immovable prop- erty in the Syrian Arab Republic may not (w i thout prior approva l) be acquired by nonresidents or foreign nationals other than resident Arab nationals. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold in the Syrian Arab Republic w i thout restriction. Domestic transactions in gold take place at free ma rket prices that are in line with f ree market prices abroad. Imports of gold are exempt from import licensing, while exports of gold are subject to a repa tr ia t ion comm i tment cover- ing the cost of m anu f a c tu r ing and the profit earned. Changes during 1981 April 22. The Syrian authorities announced off ic ia l ly that the parallel exchange market was re-established along with the official exchange marke t. At the same time the authorities imposed an advance import deposit scheme for private imports while increasing foreign exchange allowance for fore ign travel by Syrian resi- dents. June 11. The importation of a number of "luxury" items (e.g., perfumes, women's c lo th ing) was banned, while the importation of cars was liberalized a f ter several years of prohibition (Decree No. 287). June 16. Importation of additional specified items ( inc lud ing cigarettes and air conditioners for non- industrial use) was prohibited (Decree No. 294 ). 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement^ The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania Shilling. On January 20, 1979, the fixed relationship of the Tanzania shilling to the SDR was discontinued and the Tanzania shilling was pegged to a basket of currencies of Tanzania's ma in trad ing partners. The Bank of Tanzania quotes da i ly buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar. The buying and selling rates for other currencies 2 are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in in terna t ional markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the adminis- tration of exchange control to the Bank of Tanzania. Authority for approving normal import payments, some payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments is delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the two authorized banks, the National Bank of Commerce and the People's Bank of Zanzibar. On the mainland, import control is administered by the Imports Controller in the Bank of Tanzania and export control by the Exports Controller in the Min- istry of Trade. The Bank of Tanzania acts as the registrar of exporters. The responsibility for issuing specific import and export licenses rests with the Con- trollers, to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Zanzibar administers an independent system of * foreign trade controls through a Board of Trade; all imports and the principal exports are effected by the state trading agencies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation). Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzania and non- residents normally must be made either in convertible currencies or by debit or credit to External Accounts in Tanzania shillings. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Tanzania shillings held by residents of foreign countries with authorized banks in Tanzania are, with exchange control approval, designated non- resident accounts and may be either External Accounts or unspecified nonresident accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments to residents of for- eign countries by residents of Tanzania, with transfers 1 Effective March 8, 1982 the Bank of Tanzania changed the central rate of the shilling against the U.S. do l lar f rom T Sh 8.440 = US$1 to T Sh 9.28435 = US$1. 2 Aus tra l ian dollars, Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Ind ian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 422 from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency (other than South Afr ican currency) to authorized dealers. They may be debited for payments to residents, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for permitted purchases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Afr ica are prohibited. Some imports to the ma in land from all sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain other imports are not being licensed. Certain goods listed in the Imports Control Notice of 1977 may be imported freely, irrespective of country of origin, while other goods listed require specific licenses. A semiannual fore ign exchange plan provides for indicative foreign exchange allocations for goods subject to specific licenses. Although m anu f a c tu r e rs are permitted to import many goods directly, the importation of most consumer goods is restricted to centralized import agencies. Unless specifically exempted by the Bank of Tanzania, ind iv idual consignments of imports amount- ing to T Sh 20,000 or above are subject to quantitative and qua l i ta t ive inspection and price comparison by the General Superintendence Company of Geneva, acting as agent for the Government of Tanzania. All mer- chandise imports by the ma in land must be insured with the Na t ional Insurance Corporation of Tanzania, unless exempted by the Bank of Tanzan ia, and premiums must be paid in Tanzania shillings. All impor ts into Zanzibar are made by Bizanje. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at rates ranging up to 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value plus import duty. (This tax is also payable on sales of domestic products.) Advance payments for imports are allowed in excep- tional circumstances only, exchange for import pay- ments no rma l ly not being gran ted un t il a f ter customs clearance. Suppliers' credits require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzan ia. There has been an accumula- tion of arrears on payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are controlled and require the approval of the Bank of Tanzania. Noncitizens working in Tanzania under contract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tanzania eventually may remit abroad, through- out their period of employment, up to one third of their monthly salary to cover f am i ly maintenance, savings, etc. Applications to rem it in excess of one th i rd of salary, or in excess of T Sh 3,000 a month, are considered on the ir merits by the Bank of Tanzania. Persons m ak ing uncomm i t ted remittances under these arrangements are not entitled to emigration facilities (see section on Capital, below). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The basic exchange allocations for tourist travel are suspended, but exceptions may be granted by the Bank of Tanzania on a case-by-case basis. Family remit- tances to relatives abroad also are suspended. Resident travelers are allowed to take out T Sh 100 in domestic currency. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit up to the amount they brought in. Certain payments for invisibles are in arrears. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. On the ma in land, exports of products dealt with by state trading organizations and exports of certain other products are subject to controls and, if there is a local shortage, may be restricted. Exports may not be effected without an export license. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanz ibar State Trading Corpo- ration. Exporters are required to be registered with the Bank of Tanzania and must ma in ta in an account with a local commercial bank. Export proceeds must be collected in convertible currencies within one to two months from the date of exportation. However, on application to the Bank of Tanzania this period may be extended. Export proceeds must be surrendered upon their collec- tion. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles must be sold to an autho- rized bank upon collection. Travelers may freely bring in convertible foreign currency notes; a returning traveler may bring in up to T Sh 100 in Tanzania shill- ing notes he had exported on departure. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to con- trol by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted; all capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania permanently, who have been resident in Tanzania for four years immedi- ately prior to the date of application and who have not been availing themselves of the facility for making uncommitted remittances of savings, may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of T Sh 20,000 for each household. Any assets in excess of the initial emigra- TANZANIA tion allowance of T Sh 20,000 are remittable in five yearly installments of T Sh 20,000 each, a f ter which any remaining amount will be considered for repatria- tion. G if ts to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tanzania, but to ensure eventual repatriation the investment should be recognized by the Bank of Tanzania and a certificate of its status as an approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Investment (Protec- t ion) Act, 1963 should be obtained from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign and domestic investment in speci- fied types of production requires approval. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase of Tanza- n ian securities by nonresidents f rom residents, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income f rom such securities is remittable, as are the proceeds from resale. Purchases oL securities outside Tanzania by residents are not permitted. All loans or overdraf ts f rom residents to nonresidents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require approval by the Bank of Tanzania. Gold A commemorative gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate within Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm, other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a trav- eler, are subject to individual licensing by the Bank of Tanzania. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued by the Bank of Tanzania and are available to gold- smiths only. Licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of newly mined gold; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes during 1981 No significant changes occurred and trade system. in the exchange 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Thailand is the Thai Baht. The external value of the baht is determined on the basis of the relationship of the baht to a weighted basket of cur- rencies of Thailand's major trading partners as well as other considerations; the weighting reflects the shares of trade as well as the currencies used in payments. The Exchange Equalization Fund announces daily the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, for transactions between itself and commercial banks; it also announces daily minimum buying and maximum selling rates that commercial banks must observe when dealing with the public in deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, and U.S. dollars. On December 31, 1981 the middle official rate was B 23 = US$1, and the commercial banks' minimum buying and maximum selling rates for telegraphic trans- fers for their customers were B 22.96 and B 23.05, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to autho- rized agents (i.e., authorized banks and authorized com- panies1) and to authorized persons. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All outgoing payments are subject to approval (given automatically for bona fide commercial transactions and other current payments); certain inward capital trans- fers may also be subject to approval, upon prescription by Ministerial Notification.2 Imports of gold require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the cur- rency to be used for settlements with foreign countries; most payments are made in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident baht accounts: Transferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In prin- ciple, transfers of baht to and from nonresident accounts require approval; there are exemptions, however, for nonresident accounts of foreign diplomatic entities, international organizations based in Thailand, and Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds from sales to authorized banks of foreign currency transferred from 1 No authorized company has yet been so designated. 2 No such notification has yet been issued. 424 abroad, with amounts transferred from other Transfer- able Accounts, and with funds eligible for remittance abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transferable Accounts are convertible into foreign currency at any time and may be debited freely for the purchase of foreign currencies for transfer abroad, for transfers to other Transferab le Accounts, for payments in respect of exports, and for any other payments to residents. Funds that must be credited to Blocked Accounts include pro- ceeds of installment sales of books, rentals accruing in Thailand, fre ight in transit trade, proceeds from sales of assets of emigrating residents of Thai nationality, and funds that are not eligible for credit to a Transferable Account. Transfers of baht from Blocked Accounts for the purchase of foreign currency, except for certain cur- rent payments, are subject to approval by the Bank of Tha i land; approval is granted when no capital transfer on behalf of a Thai national is involved. In addition to the above, the Bank of Thailand encourages nonresidents to place foreign currency deposits with commercial banks in Thailand. No restric- tions are placed on the opening of a foreign currency account as long as the funds originate abroad. Balances on such accounts may be transferred without formality or restrictions. A commercial bank may pay interest on such deposits at competitive rates. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely, but import licenses are required for some commodities, and the import of certain other items is prohibited for protective and other reasons. All imports of goods originating in or shipped from South Africa are prohibited. Imports of tea leaf and tea dust are subject to a requirement that the importer purchase a proportionate quantity of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Import licenses are valid for all countries except South Africa. Payments for imports may be approved by authorized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Thailand, which is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance pay- ments in excess of US$1,400 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit with an expiry date exceeding nine months. Importers must obtain, in addi- tion to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" f rom an authorized agent before imported goods exceed- ing B 20,000 in value can be cleared through customs; m i l i tary equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense and certain minor categories of imports are exempt from this requirement. Certain goods are subject to tem- porary import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. Payments for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution invisibles require authorization, which is usually given by an authorized bank or otherwise by the Bank of Thailand. Cargo insurance premiums due to foreign insurers may be remitted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or a branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income af ter taxes. The t rans fer of profits and dividends is permitted freely by the Bank of Thailand. Apart from foreign travel, fam i ly mainte- nance abroad, and educational expenses abroad, autho- rized agents are permitted to approve applications for exchange w i thout suppor t ing documen ts, prov ided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of US$140. Authorized persons are allowed to sell foreign currency notes to other persons in an amount not exceeding US$250 a person a month. In the case of a foreign tourist wishing to convert baht into fo re ign currency notes, the authorized person may exceed the above limits. For persons traveling abroad for pleasure or personal business trips, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equivalent of US$800 for trips of less th an 10 days, or US$80 a day for trips of more than 10 days but not exceeding 30 days for trips with visas, or not exceeding 15 days for trips without visas; for business or official travel, US$100 a day is allowed, and add i t ional foreign exchange not exceeding US$70 a day may be obtained in cer ta in cases for enter- ta inment expenses. For fam i ly remittances, au thor ized banks may sell US$200 a month to each t rans fe ror for Europe and the United States and US$150 a mon th for other countries. Amoun ts above these limits are approved by the Bank of Thailand upon verification. No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a fam i ly traveling on one pass- po r t) or foreign currency exceeding US$250 (US$500 for a fam i ly traveling on one passport) without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Transit passengers and tourists may take out without prior authorization their own foreign means of payment, or foreign securities, or foreign banknotes and coin of a va lue not exceeding US$2,000 or such higher amount as they may have declared in writing upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Certain categories of exports are subject to licensing, and in a few cases to prior approval, irrespective of destination.3 All other commodities may be exported freely, except to South Africa. Settlement for exports of silver exceed- ing US$5,000 in value must be made through irrevocable letters of credit. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" f rom an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs where ship- ments of tin or rubber exceed B 2,000 in value and, with 3 These inc lude gold, p la t inum, precious stones, live cattle and other specified animals, coffee, sorghum, corn, all types of suga r, brass and copper in certain fo rm s, iron scrap and most fo rms of iron other than pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and Buddha images. Textile exports to ce r ta in ma rke ts are also subject to licensing. THAILAND m inor exceptions, where exports of other goods exceed B 20,000 in value. Export proceeds must be collected and must be sold to an au thor ized agent w i th in 7 days of receipt; they must be surrendered within 15 days from the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight bill is drawn for collection, 15 days a f t er the due da te of a usance bill, or 15 days for other methods of paymen t, but in any case not later than 180 days a f ter the date of export. Foreign tourists may f ree ly take out precious stones and gold or p la t inum ornamen ts or other articles up to any value. The export of most types of rice and rice products and of sugar is subject to export taxes referred to as export premiums. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an autho- rized agent. Authorized persons are allowed to purchase foreign currency notes and coin or travelers checks pay- able in foreign currencies, but the latter must be resold to authorized banks. No person may bring into Thailand local currency exceeding B 2,000 without a permit (B 4,000 for a fam i ly traveling on one passport). Trav- elers may bring in any amount in foreign notes and coin. Capital All ou tward transfers of capital, including premiums on l ife insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Personal capital exports by resi- dents are restricted. The Bank of Thailand approves the remittance of donations and gifts of a reasonable amoun t. Foreign exchange from inward capital move- ments must be sold to an authorized agent and the pur- pose of the transfer must be declared. Foreign investments in Thailand may be accorded preferen t ial treatment under the Investment Promotion Act B.E. 2520 (issued on April 29, 1977); this treat- ment includes a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capital repatriation. The repatriation of other capital is considered on the merits of each case; approval is normally granted if it can be shown that the funds originated abroad. Certain eco- nomic activities are reserved for Thai nationals. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad requires approval by the Bank of Thailand. All other private loans taken up abroad may be registered with the Bank to facilitate approval of outward remittances. The For- eign Debt Committee must approve external borrowing by the public sector. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coin, and unworked gold. Purchases or sales of gold on commodity fu tures exchanges are pro- hibited. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry are subject to the following arrangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities: commercial imports of gold in any form are restricted and require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance; 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND for gold bullion, the Ministry periodically fixes an authorized quantity of imports. A bidding system oper- ates under which the importer offering the highest pre- mium by tender is awarded a license as sole importer of the authorized quantity for a certain period. In addition to this premium, which accrues to the Govern- ment, the importer is required to pay to the Ministry of Finance a fee at the rate of 2 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the gold. Foreign tourists may take out gold orna- ments up to any value. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited; traders' exports of gold ornaments exceeding B 5,000 in value require a certificate of exportation for presentation to the customs, but they are free of export duty or taxes. Changes during 1981 February 5. The export premiums on sugar were reduced as follows: (a) for exports within the B 0-8,500 price range a metric ton (previously B 0-7,000), the premium was unchanged at zero per cent; (b) for those within the B 8,501-10,000 price range (previously 67,000-8,000), from 35 per cent to 20 per cent; (c) for exports within the B 10,001-11,500 price range (previously B 8,001-9,000), from 70 per cent to 50 per cent; and (d) for those priced at B 11,501 or more a metric ton (previously B 9,001 or mo r e ), from 100 per cent to 80 per cent. February 16. The rice reserve requirement for low- grade rice of over 10,000 metric tons was reduced, and permission was granted for payment of the requirement in cash, rather than in kind. February 27. The rice reserve requirement was modi- fied to allow payments in cash as well as in kind. March 11. A surcharge of 20 per cent was imposed for a period of one year on imports of carbon black and canamycin sulfate antibiotics and specified types of steel blades, and one of 30 per cent on imports of pencils and citric acid. March 20. A surcharge of 20 per cent was imposed for six months on imports of diesel piston engines with a displacement volume of 343-997 cubic centimeters. March 24. Prior approval requirement for exports of rice (except for low-grade rice of a quan t i ty less than 500 tons), which had been suspended in December 1980, was reintroduced. April 8. Imports of potatoes were made subject to licensing requirements. April 24. The rice reserve requirement for "head rice" was revised to B 2,123.64 a metric ton during June 1981 and 62,183.64 a metric ton during July-August 1981; for broken rice the corresponding amounts were B 353.94 a metric ton and B 363.94 a metric ton, respectively. May 5. A 20 per cent surcharge was imposed for the year on imports of wrought plate, sheet, and strip of aluminum, aluminum foil, and discontinuous fiber; in addition, a 15 per cent surcharge was levied on imports of pre-oriented or partially oriented continuous polyester 426 filament yarn, stretched yarn, and nylon stretched yarn. May 12. The exchange rate for the baht was depre- ciated by 1.08 per cent, from 620.775 = US$1 to B 21 = US$1. June 9. Exports of less than 200 metric tons of 100 per cent and 5 per cent white rice and exports of less than 800 metric tons of other grades of white rice were exempted from the prior approval requirement. June 12. The requirement introduced in September 1980 for exporters of tapioca and the Tapioca Price Support Fund to maintain stocks was terminated. June 17. Exports of cotton yarn, artificial yarn, tex- tile and textile products made from cotton, synthetic fiber, or wool to Austria, Canada, EC countries, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and the United States were made subject to licensing requirements. June 19. A surcharge of 20 per cent was imposed for one year on imports of pickling preparations for metal surfaces. June 26. Regulations were introduced setting mini- mum prices for exports of clams and restricting such exports to members of the Thai Marine Products Trad- ing Association and the Thai Food Processors' Asso- ciation. (The regulations were intended to prevent price cutting which had led to an import ban by Italy.) June 30. The quota system for exports of tapioca was l i f ted for the period July-September 1981, but such exports remained subject to prior approval. July 6. Thailand became a member of the Interna- tional Coffee Organization; consequently, coffee became subject to the licensing requirements beginning July 13, 1981. July 15. The following exchange measures were taken: (a) the baht was depreciated by 8.7 per cent, from 6 21 = US$1 to 8 23 = US$1; (b) the daily fixing session with commercial banks was terminated; and (c) henceforth, the Exchange Equalization Fund would announce daily the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar for transactions between itself and com- mercial banks, as well as the minimum buying and maximum selling rates to be observed by commercial banks in transactions with their customers when dealing in deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, and U.S. dollars. July 15. New import surcharges were levied as fol- lows: (a) a 30 per cent surcharge for one year on imports of certain adhesive plasters and acrylic polymer products for use by the textile industry; (b) a 20 per cent surcharge on certain other adhesive plasters and plates, tiles, or strips of polyvinyl chloride for flooring; (c) a 25 per cent surcharge on imports of taps, corks, and their parts; and (d) a 15 per cent surcharge on specified imports of galvanized steel netting. August 1. The tax holding for interest payment on foreign loans, which was originally scheduled to end on September 30, 1981 and to apply only to loans with an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution original ma tur i ty exceeding 12 months, was extended until the end of the year and to cover loans of all maturities. August 11. Single-cylinder diesel engines with a dis- placement volume of from 331 to 1,100 cubic centi- meters were permitted to be imported up to 38,000 units. August 17. Licensing requirements were introduced for exports of certain types of wild animals. August 27. Permission was granted for imports of specified types of processed wood for use in the con- struction industry. August 31. The export premiums for exports of raw sugar f rom the 1979/80 production year were lowered retroactively to April 1, 1981, as follows: (a) for f.o.b. prices ranging from B 7,001 to 8,000 a metric ton, the premium was reduced from 35 per cent to 7.5 per cent of value; (b) for exports within the B 8,001-9,000 price range a metric ton, from 70 per cent to 15 per cent; and (c) for those priced at B 9,001 or more a metric ton, from 100 per cent to 30 per cent. September 3. A quota of 3.57 million metric tons was imposed on exports of tapioca pellets and chips to the EC dur ing the period January-August 1982. September 11. A surcharge of 20 per cent was imposed for one year on imports of ferroalloys, ferro- manganese, ferrosilicon, and silico manganese. September 16. The Exchange Equalization Fund introduced a forward exchange cover facility for U.S. dollar funds borrowed abroad by the commercial banks and their customers; the facility provided coverage for three months, with a premium of B 0.04 per US$1 for forward sales. October 15. The prohibition on exports of ju te fiber was lifted. October 15. Imports of kenaf and ju te were banned. October 17. Licensing requirements were introduced for imports of specified crank cases and for exports of specified turtles. October 28. A 20 per cent surcharge was levied for one year on imports of specified piston engines. October 28. The export premium for 100 per cent white rice was reduced by 43 per cent, and the reserve THAILAND requirement for the same grade of rice was also reduced by 8 per cent. October 29. A 15 per cent surcharge was imposed for one year on wrought plate and specified aluminum products. November 18. The rice reserve requirement was lifted for exports of rice during the period November 18, 1981 to March 31, 1982; in addition, export licensing was l i f t ed for maize exports of less than 500 metric tons to the general market. November 19. The export premium on rice exports to Hong Kong was reduced from B 2,000 a metric ton to B 1,170 a metric ton; in addition, licensing require- ments were imposed on imports of benzene and other types of gasoline. November 25. New import surcharges were intro- duced as follows: (a) 10 per cent on imports of pencil and liquid acyclic alcohol; (b) 40 per cent up to March 10, 1982 on imports of sorbitol; (c) 5 per cent up to May 4, 1982 on specified types of aluminum foil; and (d) 10 per cent up to July 14, 1982 on imports of taps, corks, and their parts. December 7. The exemption from the export approval requirement was extended to all categories of rice, and the m in imum price requirement for exports of rice was discontinued; the quota and minimum export price requirement for noncontract sales of maize were also abolished. December 8. The export reserve requirement for rice was reduced further by 50 per cent. December 9. Additional import surcharges were introduced as follows: (a) 25 per cent for one year on imports of telephone sets; (b) 30 per cent on imports of specified types of glass fiber; and (c) 20 per cent on imports of calcium carbide. December 14. The Bank of Thailand extended the max imum period for the rediscount of export bills for rice, maize, and tapioca, from 180 days to 365 days, for the period ending June 30, 1982. December 25. An import quota was imposed on spe- cified types of diesel engines. December 27. Licensing requirements were intro- duced for exports of nine categories of munitions. 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Togo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The off ic ial buy- ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French f ranc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill on transfers from countries outside the West Afr ican Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill on transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a com- mission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be sur- rendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Togo's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and ( 2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries and the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any informa- tion necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. t rrhe CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agen- cies of the BCEAO. 428 Prescription of Currency Since Togo is an Operations Account country, settle- men ts w i th France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gam- bia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauri- tan ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally settled through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through cor- respondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to non- resident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account is not permitted, except for credits to Foreign Accounts held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks, which may be credited with BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Lome by those correspondents. Foreign Accounts in Francs may also be debited w i th- out authorization, with BCEAO banknotes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspon- dents through the BCEAO agency in Lome. Imports and Import Payments All imports of South African origin are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely, but require the prior authorization of the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Com- merce and Transport when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more and are for commercial purposes. Imports from all other countries require individual import licenses when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more. In principle, the licenses are granted in accordance with an import pro- gram established each year; as yet, however, the program has not been established, and almost all requests for import licenses f rom all sources are granted. There is no formal f ree list. The issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin is conditional, in principle, on the purchase of a specified quan t i ty of the local product; in practice, this requirement is no longer enforced. The Societe Nationale de Commerce (SONACOM) has an import monopoly for sugar cubes, rice, flour, canned milk, soap for household use, salt, tobacco and tobacco products, corrugated iron, and concrete reinforcement rods. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, spot, but ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution not earlier than eight days before shipment if a docu- m en t a ry credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the commodities already have been imported. Pur- chases of foreign exchange for down payment under i n s t a l lm e nt s e t t l em ent of t r an s a c t ions are sub ject to prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in i s t e r, wh ich can be given on ly at the t ime such payment is due and only for up to 30 per cent of each t ran sac t ion invo lv ing cap i tal goods and 10 per cent for o ther t ran sac t ion s. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as de f ined above ), Monaco, and the Ope ra t ions Account coun t r ies a re pe rm i t ted f ree ly; those to other coun t r ies are subject to approval. Paymen ts for invisibles related to t rade are perm i t ted by a general au tho r iza t ion when the basic t rade transac t ion has been approved or does not require au tho r iza t ion. T r an s f e rs of income acc ru ing to non- res iden ts in the f o rm of prof i ts, d iv idends, and royalties are also genera l ly permitted. For tour ist trave l, residents t rave l ing to coun tr ies other than France (as def ined abov e ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may ob ta in an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for ch i ldren under t e n) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 r em a in ing a f t er r e tu rn to Togo must be su r rende red w i th in eight days of re-en try. For business trave l, there is a special a l loca t ion of the equ iva- lent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The t rans fer of the en t ire net sa lary of a fore igner wo rk ing in Togo is perm i t ted upon presen ta t ion of the appropr ia te pay voucher, residence perm i t, or work per- m i t, provided that the t r an s f er takes place w i th in three m o n t hs of the pay period. Res iden ts may at any t ime and w i thout ind ica t ing the purpose of the t ran s fer make paymen ts abroad, th rough an authorized bank, up to CFAF 50,000 a t rans fe r. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French bankno tes, and bankno tes of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other coun- tries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bankno tes, but if proceeding to a coun t ry that is not a member of the West A f r i c an Mone ta ry Un ion, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. Nonres ident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coin up to the amount declared by them on e n t r y3 or, if no dec lara t ion has been made, up to the equiva- lent of CFAF 175,000. Nonres ident travelers may also : $Th is amount is ad jus ted for (1) the amount of fo re ign c u r r e n cy sold for CFA f r a n c s, and (2) any fo re ign cu r r en cy acqu i red in Togo by (a) debit to a Foreign Account in F rancs or a Foreign A c count in Fore ign Cu r rency, (b) the conversion of fo re ign cu r r en cy t r av e l e rs checks, etc., made out in the name of the t rave le r, and (c) any repur- chases of f o r e i gn cu r rency (pe rm i t ted up to CFAF 175,000) w i th CFA f rancs re su l t ing f r om the sale of fo r e ign cu r rency. TOGO f ree ly take out any amount of letters of credit and trave lers checks d rawn in the ir names abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all coun tr ies requ ire licenses. All exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. The Office Togolais des Phosphates has a monopoly over the export of phos- phates and the Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo (OPAT) has a monopoly over the export of cacao, coffee, cotton, g roundnu ts, and certain other agricul- t u r al commodities. The due date for payment for exports to foreign countries, inc lud ing the French Franc Area, may not be later than 180 days af ter the a r r ival of the goods at their des t ina t ion, and the pro- ceeds must be surrendered within a mon th a f ter the due date; authorized d iamond purchasing offices, how- ever, may re ta in foreign currency proceeds in fore ign cu r rency accounts with authorized banks in Togo. All export transactions relating to foreign countries, i n c l u d i ng the French Franc Area, must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisible transactions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies may be retained. All amoun ts due from resi- den ts of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonres ident travelers may bring in any amount of bank- notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any ins t i tu te of issue ma in ta in ing an Oper- a t ions Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coin (except gold co in) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Resi- den ts bringing in foreign bankno tes and fo re ign currency trave lers checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Cap i tal movements between Togo and France (as de f ined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies are free of exchange control; capital t rans fe rs to all other countries require exchange control approval by the Minister of Finance and Economy and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are perm i t ted freely. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, over the issuing, adver- t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of fore ign secu r i t ies in Togo, and over the soliciting of funds in Togo for placing abroad. Such operations require prior au tho r iza t ion by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Exempt f rom authorization, however, are operations in connection 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale in Togo has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to fore ign securities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above ), Monaco, member countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union, and the Operations Account countries. There also are special controls applicable to all coun tr ies other than Togo with respect to imports and exports of gold. All investments abroad by residents of Togo require prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is ter of Finance and Economy;4 beg inn ing June 24, 1981 at least 75 per cent of such investments must be financed by fore ign borrowing. Foreign direct investments in Togo5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance and Economy before they are made. The Minister has a period of two mon ths from receipt of the declaration dur ing which he may request postponement of the projects. The total or pa r t ial l iqu ida t ion of any inward direct inves tment or any ou tward investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister of Finance and Econ- omy. Both the making and the liquidation of invest- ments, whether these are Togolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and Economy and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying con- trol of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a com- pany whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. The following are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; ( 3) loans taken up either by industrial firms to finance operations abroad or by approved international mer- chanting houses to finance imports or exports; and (4) in certain circumstances, any other loans, provided that the outstanding amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any fore ign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance and Economy; exempt from 4 Inc lud ing investments made through fore ign companies that are d i rec t ly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad or companies in Togo. 5 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Togo that are directly or ind i rec t ly under fo re ign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. 430 this requirement are loans constituting a direct invest- men t, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization by the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, cer ta in fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new inves tment (fore ign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. In addition, certain enterprises, in accordance with their impor tance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted special privileges for a specified number of years re la t ing to the mainte- nance of existing taxes and exemption from import duties. Such privileges are negotiated by the Govern- ment and the investor. An Investment Law, applicable to both foreign and domestic capital, sets out the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special found ing agreement by which they receive cer- ta in tax benefits. Firms that unde r take to invest at least CFAF 25 million may receive a gua ran tee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of f ree t rans fer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income there- from. Gold Residents are f ree to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Togo. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require prior authoriza- tion by the M in i s ter of Finance and Economy. Exempt f rom this requirement a re ( 1) impor ts and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) im- ports and exports of m anu f a c tu r ed articles c o n t a i n i ng a m inor qu an t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or go ld-p la ted a r t ic le s ); and ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1981 June 24. Circular No. 0067 MFE was issued, stipu- lating that at least 75 per cent of investments abroad wou ld be required to be financed by foreign borrowing. In addition, changes were made in regulations affect- ing the purchase of foreign exchange, including the acquisition of foreign exchange for import payments. November 16. A trade agreement was signed in Lome between Togo and the German Democratic Republic, aimed at promoting trade in their respective principal exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trinidad and Tobago Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at TT$2.4 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are TT$2.3970 and TT$2.4210, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, acting as agent of the Gov- ernment. The Central Bank has delegated its exchange control authority with respect to the approval of pay- ments for visible imports to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, and with respect to payments up to specified amounts for certain current invisibles to authorized banks. The exchange control system provides for compul- sory surrender of foreign currency2'3 and for control over both current and capital transactions. All over- seas payments and transfers require the approval of the exchange control authorities; payments to South Africa are prohibited. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents and local nonresident- controlled companies, are also subject to control. Notes issued by the East Caribbean Currency Author- ity and the Central Bank of Barbados are not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago, but under an arrange- ment with the monetary authorities concerned, the notes are purchased by the monetary authorities and are repatriated by them in return for reciprocity of treat- ment with respect to collections of Trinidad and Tobago dollars. From April 7, 1981 the Central Bank of Trini- dad and Tobago no longer repatriates Trinidad and Tobago currency notes from the monetary authorities of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) countries.4 Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. 1 Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, East Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2 Under Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are considered foreign currencies. 3 If the business of a trader, firm, or company involves frequent receipts and payments in foreign currencies, permission may be granted for the retention of a portion of receipts in a Foreign Cur- rency Account, subject to the requirement that periodic statements of credits and debits to the account be submitted to the authorities. * The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis- Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in sterling or in any other specified cu r rency5 except South African currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, to all countries may be made in sterling or in any other specified currency. Payments from all countries with which trade is allowed must be received in sterling or in any other specified currency. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago. These accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Trinidad and Tobago that have been approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of Trinidad and Tobago, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling or any other foreign currency and may be transferred freely between residents of countries outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the excep- tion that transfers from External Accounts held by residents of the CARICOM countries to any country j outside Trinidad and Tobago other than that of the holder's residence are conditional upon the Central Bank being satisfied that the exchange control authorities of the holder's country of residence do not object. Blocked Accounts may be credited with funds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., pro- ceeds from the sale by a nonresident of capital assets in Trinidad and Tobago or proceeds from the sale of foreign securities). The use of balances on Blocked Accounts is subject to authorization. Blocked funds may be reinvested in local securities which are not redeemable either optionally or contractually within four years from the date of acquisition. The income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, may be credited to an External Account. Imports and Import Payments While most commodities may be imported under open general license arrangements, some imports are subject to the provisions of a Negative List. The list cites over 400 items that are subject to regulation by specific license and also identifies countries that are accorded special treatment. Thus, trade with South 5 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dol- lars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Africa is prohibited, and all imports from Albania, Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Repub- lic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia are subject to specific licensing, irrespective of the Negative List status of the import concerned. At pres- ent, trade with these countries may be settled in U.S. dollars. Trade with CARICOM countries is effected in the national currency of the member countries con- cerned. Imports from all other countries may be paid for in any currency in which the goods are satisfactorily invoiced. The main items that are subject to the Negative List include cement, clothing, corrugated iron sheeting, cos- metics, saccharin, coffee and cocoa beans, and com- pletely assembled motor vehicles. Firearms, ammuni- tion, and narcotics are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. Certain food products are covered by the Agricultural Market- ing Protocol of the CARICOM Treaty. Imports of rice and oils and fa ts are subject to state trading; rice is normally imported from Guyana at agreed prices.6 All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Imports of meat, live animals, and plants are subject to specific regulation, as are imports of mining materials. All other commodities from all sources may be imported under open general license. Where specific import licenses are required they must be obtained from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce before orders are placed. Payments for all imports require exchange control approval. If prescription of currency arrangements are complied with, foreign exchange is granted without restriction or undue delay, provided the authorities are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documen- tary evidence. No restrictions are imposed on pay- ments for current international transactions, except with respect to South Africa. Under authority delegated by the Central Bank the authorized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange within prescribed limits for certain transactions in invisibles. When addi- tional amounts are needed, the approval of the authori- ties is required and this is granted provided that unauthorized capital transfers are not involved. The basic allowance for tourist travel is TT$2,500 a person a year, for business travel TT$350 a day for a maxi- mum of 30 days for one trip, and for health care TT$ 12,000 a year. Allowances for education abroad are TT$8,000 for schools, TT$ 12,000 for universities, 6 Packaged rice may be imported through normal commercial chan- nels, but such imports are not usually allowed from countries other than Guyana unless the contracted supplies are not forthcoming. 432 and TT$ 1,200 for correspondence courses, and TT$700 once every two years for warm clothing. Residents and nonresidents may take out Trinidad and Tobago notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export part of their basic travel allow- ance up to a maximum of TT$ 1,200 in foreign cur- rency notes. Nonresidents visiting Trinidad and Tobago may, on departure, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. Nonresidents leaving Trinidad and Tobago are allowed to reconvert Trinidad and Tobago dollar notes into foreign currency up to the equivalent of TT$ 1,200 upon showing evi- dence of having purchased such funds from authorized dealers. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of certain goods usually require an individual license. These include some foods tuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced there. Exports of all other com- modities are permitted by an open general license. In addition, general licenses may be issued at the discre- tion of the Ministry of Indus try and Commerce; such licenses have been issued to permit petroleum com- panies and sugar companies to export without specific licenses. The proceeds from sugar exports are subject to a tax, which varies on the basis of the price of the export sale. Purchases of petroleum and petroleum products f rom Trinidad and Tobago by other CARICOM countries are aided by the provisions of the CARICOM Oil Facility established by the Government; the facility provides long-term, low-interest loans to finance the increase over the level on January 1, 1979 in the cost of oil imports from Trinidad and Tobago by other CARICOM countries. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a por- tion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum com- panies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate for- eign exchange to the extent of their local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in foreign currencies must be surrendered. Insurance, shipping, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago are usually authorized to maintain operating accounts for receipts and expenditures in foreign cur- rency. These companies give periodic accounts of their exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trinidad and Tobago currency notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by residents and nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago require approval and generally are restricted. However, repay- ment of commercial credits is permitted freely, and gifts to nonresidents and emigration allowances are approved up to specified limits; furthermore, as a matter of policy, capital transfers to other CARICOM countries are permitted liberally. Legacies may be expatriated in full. However, the Central Bank reserves the right to phase remittances up to a maximum of four years. Certain international institutions may be permitted to borrow in Trinidad and Tobago on a case-by-case basis. For transactions in securities, 14 authorized deposi- tories have been appointed. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities other than securi- ties expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Con- tractual amortization of sterling securities is permitted, and also of mortgages and other loans if the origi- nal borrowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other invest- ments owned by nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, above); however, approval is of ten given to residents to purchase such assets. All foreign investment, whether in cash or in kind, is normally eligible for repatriation provided it has been registered with the Central Bank. Hence, when funds are received for investment, local banks should authenticate the receipt of such funds from External Accounts. In the event of an appreciation in the value of the asset con- cerned, the remittance of any funds in excess of the original investment will normally be phased over a maximum of five years, depending on the balance of payments situation. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to per- sons resident outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, pro- vided that the fu ll proceeds of sale are received in for- eign currency. Foreign exchange is not normally pro- vided for portfolio investment by residents in foreign securities, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official market rate of exchange or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested outside Trinidad and Tobago in similar securities. Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irredeemable or are not redeemable within four years from the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discriminate between nationals and foreigners in the formation and TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required, however, to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landho ld ing) Ordinance in order to hold interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Pro- spective foreign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The Government has enacted basic incentive legis- lation designed to attract domestic and foreign invest- ment in manu fac tu r ing and in import-substitution indus- tries. Since 1973 these policies have been effected within the framework of a CARICOM agreement on harmoniza- tion of fiscal incentives. Certain concessions are granted to industries declared to be pioneer industries, i.e., industries tha t, have not previously existed in Trinidad and Tobago or which are not being conducted on a commercial scale, or any industry for which there are favorable prospects for fu tu re development. Every pioneer manu fac tu rer is entitled to temporary relief f rom import duties and taxes and to other privileges. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant finance to nonresident individuals and firms (o ther than residents of other CARICOM countries) and to nonresident-controlled local companies. Such com- panies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to supplement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. Each commercial bank must maintain the monthly average of its net foreign exchange position within a specified quantitative ceiling. Gold Gold is defined by djie Exchange Control Act of 1970 as gold coin and bullion. The regulations pro- vide that, except with specific exemptions and per- missions granted by the Minister of Finance (1) one party to every transaction in gold between residents must be an authorized bank, (2) gold held by residents must be surrendered to an authorized bank, and (3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents are permitted in appropriate cases, however, to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. Control on the import and export of gold is adminis- tered by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of gold jewelry are on open general license, but imports of gold other than jewelry are subject to specific import licenses issued by the Ministry of Indus- try and Commerce; such licenses are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized indus- trial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or other- wise, are subject to specific export licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the monetary authorities. Imports of unrefined gold from non-CARicoM sources are subject to import duty at 5 per cent (preferen t ial du ty) or 15 per cent (gen- eral d u t y ), and those of partly worked gold at 15 per 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO cent (preferential duty) or 25 per cent (general du ty ). Such imports are free of purchase tax. Changes during 1981 February 26. A proclamation was signed lifting exchange and trade restrictions against Zimbabwe (formerly Rhodesia). April 7. The Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago ceased to repatriate Trinidad and Tobago currency notes from the monetary authorities in the CARICOM region. June 1. The criterion applied under the rules of origin system for goods using inputs imported from outside the CARICOM was modified as follows: the deter- mining criterion was changed from one based on value added to one based on the degree to which the imported input had been processed. 434 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian Dinar. The exchange value of the d inar is de term ined in accordance with a basket of currencies. The buying and selling rates for foreign currenc ies1 are fixed daily by the Cen- tral Bank of Tunisia. On December 31, 1.981 the spot buy ing and selling rates of the d inar were D 0.0900 and D 0.0909, respectively, per F 1, and D 0.5131 and D 0.5182, respectively, per US$1. Since February 1, 1979 fo rwa rd quotations are provided daily for the deutsche ma rk, the French f ranc, and the U.S. dollar.2 The buy ing and selling rates of authorized banks are identical with those of the Central Bank. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank; some authority over payments for imports and invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks. Foreign trade control is adm in is tered by the Directorate of Trade and Licenses of the Ministry of Na t ional Econ- omy, which determines, in consultation with the Central Bank, the imports and exports that are to be prohibited or liberalized as well as the impo r ts that are to be subject to quotas in accordance w i th the Government's overall program and the trade agreements with fo re ign countries. The Directorate, in collaboration with the Central Bank, issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and fore ign countries are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank (see footnote 1) or in convertible Tunisian d inars through Foreign Accounts. Settlements between Tunisia and Morocco, and certain settlements between Tunisia and Algeria, may be effected through accounts in the national currencies concerned at the central banks. Pay- ments to Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be opened without authorization in the names of non- resident foreign nationals and of Tunisian workers abroad and, with au thor iza t ion, in the names of other Tunisian nonresidents. These accounts may be credited free ly with dinar proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies (other than bankno te s ), with interest (at the demand deposit and time deposit 1 Cu r renc ies quo ted spot are Aus t r ian sch i l l ings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French f ranc s, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Libyan dinars, Moroccan d i rhams, Ne ther lands guilders, Norweg ian k rone r, pounds s ter l ing, Saudi A rab ian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. In add i t ion, the Cen tral Bank quo tes bankno te rates for all of these currencies (except the Moroccan d i r h am) and for CFA f r a n c s, K uw a i ti d inars, Mali f rancs, Qa tar r iya ls, and U.A.E. dirhams. 2 The fo rwa rd rates are calculated for periods of one month to six months for the selling rates and of one, two, and three months for the buying rates. rates applicable to residents) on balances in these accounts, and with transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars; all other credits require pr ior au thor iza t ion, either direct or by delegation. They may be debited freely for payments of any kind in Tun is ia (irrespective of the coun try of residence of the p a y e r ), for t rans fe rs to other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars, and for the purchase of any fore ign currency f rom the Central Bank. Such currency may be t ran s fe r red abroad or remitted in Tunisia to the account holder or to any other nonresident benef ic iary. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies may be established by nonres iden ts without authoriza- tion. They may be credited w i th convertible fore ign currencies remitted to the account holder by a non- resident, w i th foreign currency purchased f rom the Central Bank by debit of a Foreign Account in Con- ve r t ib le Dinars, w i th authorized paymen ts by residents in favor of the account holder, with interest payable by the authorized intermediaries on fore ign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the f u n ds thus deposited at remune ra t ive rates, and w i th the proceeds f rom the cashing of checks, travelers checks, or d ra f ts expressed in convertible currencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. The accounts may be debited at any time for the sale of fore ign currency to the Central Bank, for t rans fe rs to any Foreign Account, for t rans fer abroad, or for delivery of fo re ign currency to the account holder or any other nonres ident beneficiary. Capital* Accounts may be opened in the name of a resident of any foreign country. The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tun is ian na t iona l i ty or his spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global Capital Accounts for the ir nonresident customers. Subject to certain condi- tions, Capital Accounts may be credited, without prior approval of the Central Bank, with the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange, or of the contractual or advance redemption, of Tun is ian securities, the sales proceeds of real estate or rights to real estate situated in Tunisia, and with funds from a Capital Account held by a person having the na t iona l i ty of a country belonging to the same monetary area as that of the holder of the account to be credited. Subject to certain conditions, these accounts may be debited freely for the purchase of Tunisian securities quoted on the stock exchange, and for the acquisition of real estate. Irrespective of the account holder's coun try of residence, Capital Accounts may be free ly debited for l iv ing expenses in Tun is ia of the account holder and his fam i ly, up to D 50 a person a week and D 1,000 a fam i ly a year; the ind iv idual limit may be raised to D 100, subject to a limit of D 2,000 for each family visiting Tunisia between November 1 of 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA each year and March 31 of the following year, pro- vided that the total amount used in any single year does not exceed D 2,000. They may also be debited, subject to certain conditions, for expenses connected with the management of Tunisian securities, the maintenance, repair, and insurance of real estate and all taxes, and for t rans fer to the credit of another Capital Account. These accounts may not be overdrawn. Balances held by physical persons of foreign nationality and not exceeding D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975 are transferab le abroad. Physical and juridical persons of French nationality holding capital accounts may t rans fer up to D 2,000 of balances belong- ing to them in each such account as of October 25, 1980. Furthermore, balances outstanding on October 31, 1980 can be used up to December 31, 1982 for the purchase of five-year government bonds, when the amount utilized is not greater than D 10,000, and seven-year govern- ment bonds with funds utilized over and above that amount. Interest payments and repayments on ma tur- ing bonds are transferable through an authorized intermediary. Internal Nonresident Accounts are used mainly by natural persons of foreign nationality staying tempo- rarily in Tunisia and receiving income in dinars there; the opening of these accounts requires the approval of the Central Bank, and balances can be used only in Tunisia. Internal Nonresident Export Accounts may be cred- ited with the salaries of nonresident foreign nationals employed in enterprises benefiting f rom certain export incentives under Law No. 72-38 of April 27, 1972. Special Dinar Accounts. Nonresident foreign enter- prises holding contracts in Tunisia may be authorized to open Special Dinar Accounts intended to cover, totally or partially, their expenses in Tunisia. The Cen- tral Bank determines the operational and liquidation procedures for such accounts on a case-by-case basis. Balances in such accounts receive interest at the same rate as sight and time deposit accounts in dinars. Suspense Accounts are used for crediting all proceeds accruing in Tunisia to nonresidents where such pro- ceeds are awaiting utilization in Tunisia for specified purposes or central bank approval for t rans fer abroad or transfer to other nonresident accounts. Subject to certain conditions, Suspense Accounts may be debited, without the prior authorization of the Central Bank, in respect of purchases of Tunisian securities, subscrip- tions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, port- folio management expenses in respect of certain secu- rities, payments to the Tunisian Government or public institutions, and settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder (irrespective of his country of residence) or his family up to D 50 a person a week and D 1,000 a fam i ly a year; the individual limit may be raised to D 100, subject to a limit of D 2,000 a year for each family visiting Tunisia between Novem- 436 ber 1 of each year and March 31 of the fo l low ing year, provided that the total amount used in any year does not exceed D 2,000 a f am i l y. Phys ical persons of for- eign nationality may transfer abroad assets that they hold if these did not exceed D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975. Physical or ju r id ical persons of French na t iona l i ty ho ld ing Suspense Accounts may t ran s fer up to D 2,000 of balances belonging to them in such accounts as of October 25, 1980. All o ther debits to these accounts require the au tho r iza t ion of the Cen tral Bank. Foreign Currency Savings Accounts may be main- ta ined with the Postal Adm in i s t r a t ion in the names of Tun is ian na tural or ju r id ical persons who are res ident abroad. These accounts may be credited w i th the coun te rva lue in d inars of conver t ib le fo re ign cu r rency t rans fe r red by the account holder by check or postal t rans fe r. They may be debited freely. v Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Israel and South A f r i ca are pro- hibited. Liberalized imports require only an import certificate, while all other imports requ i re approva l, which may be given w i th in the f r am ewo rk of a b i la te ral quota or a global quota. Impor ts of nonliberalized goods require an import license f rom the Directorate of Trade and Licenses and the visa of the Cen tral Bank; when issuing the license, the Directorate of Trade and Licenses, if necessary, consults w i th the appropr ia te technical ministry. Certain products may be imported f rom any coun t ry (except Israel and South A f r i c a) under special pro- cedures, as follows: Certain spare par t? and a few other products requ ired by indu s t r ies may be imported w i thout license aga inst presen ta t ion of an importer's card up to D 500 a year for each impo r te r. Liberalized produc ts listed in the notice to importers and exporters published on November 27, 1971 may be impor ted under an import cer t if ica te. This procedure is used for spare parts imported by indus t ry and the hotel trade which are in tended for inco rpo ra t ion or u t i l i z a t i on in their fac i l i t ies or for capital goods au thor ized by the Investment Promotion Agency. All products, except those imported under an import certificate, may be imported under an "annual import au thor iza t ion ," irre- spective of the import regime (liberalized, proh ib i ted, or subject to quo ta) or the ir coun t ry of o r ig in. Indus- tries, particularly export-oriented indu s t r ies and agencies responsible for supp ly ing cer ta in essential goods for domestic and indus t r ial use, may ava il themselves of th is annu al au tho r iza t ion. Manu fac tu r ing industries p roduc ing exc lus ive ly for export and covered by Law No. 72-38 may import freely any goods required for the ir produc t ion process, subject only to a customs declaration. Consumer goods listed under some 332 t a r i ff items or subitems are licensed only w i th in an overall fore ign exchange ceiling set by the M in is t ry of P lann ing and Finance. Imports ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of certain goods are licensed in such a manner as to ensure that payment is made within the framework of government loans. Other goods that are subject to government monopoly are imported by a s ing le operator or by public agencies —mainly the Regie Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes (matches, p lay ing cards, and tobacco), the Office du Commerce (coffee, tea, and sugar), the Office des Cereales ( g r a i n s ), and the Pharmacie Centrale de Tunisie ( d r u g s ). Prohibited imports by such agencies are subject to the same licensing arrangemen ts as pri- vate imports. To obtain an import certificate, an import authori- zation, an import license, or an importer's card, importers must have received a customs code number. All import documents involving payments must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Foreign currency may be purchased from the Central Bank for all pay- ments that have received proper and prior authoriza- tion. Resident importers are authorized to buy forward foreign currencies required for f u t u re settlement of their merchandise imports, for a max imum term of six months. In addition to customs duties, a number of import taxes are applied. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles requ ire the approval of the Central Bank; for some transactions this au tho r i ty has been delegated to the authorized banks. Payments for a number of current invisibles are approved, provided that they are properly documented. These include ( 1) various payments related to inter- national trade (e.g., port services, warehousing, com- missions, and b roke rage ); (2) payments for processing, repair, assembly, royalties, patents and trademarks, taxes, fines, and court expenses; and (3) payment of interest and amortization arising from authorized con- trac tual obligations to nonresidents. Approval is also given freely for remittance of certain dividends due to nonresidents. In addition, exporters holding balances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these f ree ly for expenditures abroad in connection with participation in international trade fa i r s, and to pay customs duties and various other expenses related to exports. Exporters as well as hotel owners may use EFAC balances freely for expenses related to publicity abroad, and up to fixed limits (see below) for certain other expenses. Na tural persons and enterprises producing for export w i th in the framework of Law No. 72-38 may freely make payments related to their production process; amounts in convertible dinars credited to the Business Travel Accounts of resident firms covered by Law No. 72-38 may be f ree ly used for business travel up to D 4,000 a year for each enterprise. Payments for cer ta in other current invisibles are approved up to fixed limits. Residents traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange TUNISIA allocation equivalent to D 100 a person (D 50 for chil- dren under t e n ); the allocations for two consecutive years may be cumulated. The allocation for studv abroad is D 140 a month. Exporters and hotel owners holding EFAC accounts may use such balances up to the equivalent of D 2,000 a year for business travel abroad. A foreign na t ional employed under contract may trans- fer up to 50 per cent of his net wage or salary w i thout limit if his f am i ly is not resident in Tun is ia and subject to a max imum of D 150 a month if his fam i ly lives in Tunisia.3 Foreign experts employed by the pub l ic sec- tor may t rans fer abroad their monthly salaries up to the limits specified in their contracts. Foreign salaried workers born in Tunisia may t rans fer 30 per cent of their net basic salaries, up to D 80 a month. The export of Tunisian d inar banknotes or coin is prohibited. Unless cen tral bank permission is obtained, the reconversion of domestic bankno tes by nonresident travelers is restricted to 30 per cent of the amount of foreign currency previously sold, subject to a max imum of D 100, if the traveler's stay in Tunisia exceeds 24 hours; if it does not exceed 24 hours, there is no limita- tion on the reconversion. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. Certain exports are liberalized. The export of wine is the monopoly of the Office du V in, the export of cereals that of the Office des Cereales, and the export of olive oil that of the Office Na t ional de 1'Huile. With the exceptions noted below, all export proceeds must be repatriated and surrendered, normally within 15 days from the date payment is due if no credit is extended or, unless special authorization f rom the Central Bank is obtained, w i th in 100 days a f ter shipment if the goods are sold on credit. Resident exporters may sell forward for a maximum term of three months, through autho- rized intermediaries, foreign currencies representing the proceeds f rom their merchandise exports. Exporters and hotel owners may arrange to credit part of their export proceeds to special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts denominated in convertible dinars. For exporters the limits are 4 per cent if export proceeds are repatriated more than 30 days af ter ship- ment of the merchandise, and 6 per cent if repatriation occurs within 30 days following shipment. Hotel owners may credit to such accounts up to 4 per cent of their foreign exchange proceeds. Authorized intermediaries may grant surety bonds and performance bonds to resident exporters and to resident exporting enterprises eligible under Law No. 72-38. Resident m a n u f a c t u r i ng industries that produce exclusively for export and are approved under the terms of Law No. 72-38 may arrange to credit 2 per cent of their repatriated convertible cur- 3 There are special regulations for those employed by nonresident manufacturing enterprises covered by Law No. 72-38 and producing exclusively for export. 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA rency export proceeds to Business Travel Accounts in Convertible Dinars. Under the provisions of Law No. 72-38, nonresident manu fac tu r ing enterprises (i.e., enterprises Whose capital is held by nonresidents and has been constituted to the extent of at least 66 per cent through the import of con- vertible currencies) producing exclusively for export are exempt from the requirement of repatriation and surrender of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles \j- Residents must repatriate and su r render all amoun ts derived from services rendered to persons resident abroad and also all other income or proceeds f rom invisibles received f rom fore ign countries. However, there are certain EFAC facilities for such proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Foreign banknotes and coin (except gold coin) may be brought in free ly; nonresident travelers wishing to re-export the equivalent of over D 500 must make a currency declaration upon entry. The import of Tunisian d inar banknotes and coin is prohibited. Capital All nonresidents who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tunisian authorities in order to be able to t rans fer the principal of, and current earnings f rom, such investments. Foreign investment in Tunisia may obtain the benefits provided for by the Investment Code (Law No. 69-35) and by Law No. 81-56 providing incentives for invest- ment in m anu f a c tu r ing indus try and for industrial decentralization. These include a number of tax facili- ties as well as a guaran tee of the right to repatriate the capital invested in foreign currency or the net proceeds of sale or liquidation, even if this amount exceeds the amount initially invested in foreign currency plus the earnings on that capital. Furthermore, Law No. 72-38 provides for various special benefits for nonresident manu fac tu r ing enterprises, including an exemption f rom the repatriation requirement in respect of export pro- ceeds. Law No. 76-63 provides for the establishment in Tunisia, subject to prior approval by the Ministry of P lann ing and Finance and the Central Bank, of foreign f inanc ial and bank ing institutions conducting business with nonresidents. However, these ins t i tu t ions may also grant credits to residents or take up participations in the capital of resident companies upon authorization from the Central Bank. Such institutions are regarded as nonresident for exchange control purposes; they need not repatriate any of their funds or proceeds and may freely extend credit to nonresidents for the investment and working capital requirements of enterprises in Tunisia. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and have left Tunisia permanently are entitled to the t rans fer of the fo l low ing: 50 per cent of their assets (subject to a ceiling of D 3,500) for those who left 438 Tunisia before August 20, 1970;4 D 4,000 for those who left between August 20, 1970 and December 31, 1973; D 5,000 for those who le ft between J anu a ry 1, 1974 and December 31, 1974; D 10,000 for those who le ft a f ter December 31, 1974; D 15,000 for those leav- ing Tunisia a f t er December 31, 1978; and D 25,000 for those of French na t iona l i ty leaving a f ter October 25, 1980, provided they are Tunisian-born and over 60 years of age at the time of their departure. All capital transfers by residents and all loans to nonresidents require the approval of the Central Bank. Donations or the proceeds f rom inher i tances accruing to nonresidents are credited to Cap i tal Accounts. The amortization of loans taken up w i th cen tral bank approval f rom nonres iden ts is f ree ly transferab le. Gold Five denom ina t ions of commemo ra t ive gold coin are legal tender but do not c ircu la te. Residents may acquire and hold gold in any fo rm in Tun is ia. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the import and export of monetary gold. Other imports of gold require jo int authorization by the Central Bank and the M in is t ry of National Economy. Only dentists and specified cooperatives of indus t r ial users are eligible to purchase gold f rom the Central Bank. The export of gold is prohibited. Changes during 1981 January 22. C ircu lar No. 81-01 was introduced, granting cer ta in add i t ional benefits to physical and juridical persons of French n a t i o n a l i ty who hold Sus- pense or Capital Accoun ts. February 4. Certain commodities listed under 25 tariff headings were made subject to a prior import license. April 2. Law No. 81-26 was enacted ra t i fy ing the unified convention for inves tment of A r ab capital in the Arab countries. May 29. Law No. 81-45 was in troduced, mak ing the importation of c inema tograph ic films for commercial purposes subject to au tho r iza t ion by the M in is t ry of Cultural A f fa i rs, on the recommenda t ion of a special commission. May 29. Law No. 81-41 was passed, ra t i fy ing the convention aimed at fac i l i ta t ing and expand ing trade among the A rab countries. June 23. Law No. 81-56 was enacted, providing a number of incentives for investment in manu fac tu r ing industry and for indus t r ial decentralization. September 14. A trade agreement was signed with the Libyan Arab Jamah i r iya, prov id ing mainly for a D 40 million arrangement to l ink the two countries' electricity networks and for the creation of a jo int shipping company and a jo int tourist agency. 4 Such persons may transfer D 1,750 if the total amount of their assets does not exceed D 3,500. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position on December 31,1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkey is the Turkish Lira. The authorities of Turkey do not observe margins in respect of exchange transactions and Turkey follows a flexible exchange rate policy by which exchange rates for the lira are adjusted from time to time. On December 31, 1981 the official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were LT 132.30 and LT 134.95, respectively, per US$1. More depreciated rates result from the arrangement for the retention and transfer of 50 per cent of the foreign exchange obtained from exports of mining products and manufac tures; 10 per cent of receipts from exports of fresh vegeta- bles, fru i ts, and fish; and 10 per cent of earnings of Turkish contractors working abroad. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Trade control is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, which also prepares the import programs. The Ministry of Commerce, or the Central Bank on the advice of the Min is try, allocates foreign exchange; certain foreign exchange allocations for imports, including commodities on liberalized list II, require the prior approval of the appropriate ministry; for the public sector, such exchange allocations are made by the Ministry of Finance. The Central Bank issues import licenses on instructions of the Ministry of Commerce. Export registration is carried out by professional organizations (the Exporters Union, the Chambers of Commerce, of Industry, and of Commerce and Industry) according to the instructions of the Min- istry of Commerce; export licenses are issued by this Ministry, which may delegate the issuance of export licenses to the professional organizations. Import and export licenses for gold, however, are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency and Nonresident Accounts Settlements with countries with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements1 are made in accor- dance with the terms of the relevant agreement, but proceeds from exports to these countries may be received in any convertible currency. Certain commer- cial settlements with Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Romania and with the other members of the Regional Cooperation for Development (Iran and Pak is tan) are made through special accounts denomi- nated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with all other countries are made in convertible currencies. Proceeds from exports to specified countries in Western Europe 2 1 Albania and U.S.S.R. 2 Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. must be received in the currency of a country in this group. Nonresidents as well as resident jur id ical per- sons are no longer permitted to open, or to add to, demand or time accounts in Turkey that are denomi- nated in convertible Turkish liras and that bear an exchange guarantee by the Central Bank (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments Imports of old, used and reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor-quality goods are prohib- ited, except with the authorization of the Ministry of Commerce. All commercial imports require import licenses, which are valid for 6 months, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs within 6 months and 20 days. In exceptional cases, the valid- ity of import licenses is extended by a period not exceeding 8 months. Import licenses are issued to registered importers, industrialists, state economic enter- prises, and government depar tmen ts. Private individuals and corporate bodies are required to secure an import certificate issued by the M in is try of Commerce before submitting applications through the authorized banks for licenses to import goods for commercial purposes. The importer's tax status is taken in to consideration when granting such certificates. Exporters, m ine opera- tors, shipowners, building contractors who have under- taken the construction of state establishments, tourist establishments, and registered manu fac tu re rs are also required to secure an import certificate for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs; a certificate establishing their qualifications is issued by the respec- tive public authority, i.e., the Chambers of Commerce and of Industry, the Exporters Union, or the Ministry of Tourism and Informa t ion. Most goods are imported in accordance with the provisions of import programs which are planned for one year. The import programs classify imports in two categories of liberalized imports, list I and list II. There are no limits as to either value or quan t i ty of goods brought in under these lists. Import licenses are issued freely and applications for import licenses for gfibds on the liberalized lists may be submitted at any time to authorized banks, which transfer them to the Central Bank for issuance of the import licenses. How- ever, before an import license may be issued for goods to be imported under list II, approval of the appropriate government department is required. Imports of goods that do not appear on any of the two lists are prohib- ited; certain of these commodities, however, may be imported when specifically authorized by the Ministry of Commerce. The lists apply, in principle, only to imports from countries other than those with which 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Turkey has bilateral payments agreements; 3 goods not included in either of these two import lists may not be imported under the bilateral quotas. The import license permits the necessary foreign exchange payment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documents, or goods (i.e., upon customs clearance). For payment against letters of credit or docu- ments, all importers (with the exception of government depar tmen ts) are required to prepay in local currency the equivalent of the foreign exchange for which they have applied. The prepayments are transferred to the Central Bank by the authorized bank w i th in five days. For payment against goods, one half of the local cur- rency counterpart of the value of the consignment has to be deposited at the time of application for the import license and the balance at the date of customs clearance. Importers are forma l ly required to effect the relative foreign exchange t rans fer w i th in five months from the date of the import license for paymen ts against documents and within two months f rom the date of customs clearance for payments against goods. Exchange rate ad jus tmen ts for officially quoted cur- rencies entail changes in required import deposits. Importers are required to increase their deposits in the special account or they may receive re imbursement f rom the special account in the fo l low ing cases: (1) when foreign exchange has been sold to the impor ter but the goods have not yet been imported, (2) when no foreign exchange has been sold and the goods have not been cleared by customs, and (3) when no foreign exchange has been sold but the goods have been cleared by customs. Imports from bilateral agreement countries are sub- ject to separate quotas, which are established only for commodities that appear on lists I and II. Applications under the bilateral quotas specified in each agreement are submitted by the Central Bank or the responsible public authority to the Ministry of Commerce on a monthly basis. Financing through acceptance credits with a mini- mum ma tur i ty of 180 days is permitted for certain imports, including imports by indus tr ia l is ts for their own use. Turkish banks have been requested to use half of their total acceptance credit financing for imports of petroleum and fertilizers. In principle, com- mercial banks have to meet all fore ign exchange needs arising f rom acceptance credit financing f rom their own foreign exchange resources. Banks can apply at the Central Bank for the transfer of foreign exchange but, as a consequence, they lose the right to carry out fu tu re acceptance credit operations. Guarantee deposits for imports are payable in advance, generally as follows: for goods on liberalized 3 When pe rm i t t ing imports of goods f rom countries o ther th an the paymen ts agreement countries or member countries of the O rgan i- zation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), the Ministry of Commerce takes into account the balance of trade and payments with these countries. 440 list I and list II for indus tr ia l is ts' own requirements, 10 per cent of the value of the merchandise; for other liberalized list I and list II impor ts, 20 per cent; for imports under global quotas and for industrialists' quotas, 10 per cent; and for impor ters' quotas, 20 per cent.4 Public sector imports, with the exception of those for national security or defense, are subject to a 10 per cent advance import deposit requ iremen t. For imports under bilateral quotas the rate of guaran tee deposit depends on the list on which the goods are included if imported f r om a non-payments agreement country. Gua ran tee deposits are payable irrespective of the method of paymen t. The pub l ic sector is exempt, however, and in many cases indus t r ia l is ts make a sym- bolic deposit of 1 per cent (on imports und er invest- ment quotas set aside for the ir use and applicable to convertible currency coun tr ies on ly, or on impor ts under investment quotas in b i la te ral ag r e em en t s ). The deposit remains blocked un t il the goods have been cleared through customs and the fo re ign supplier is paid; it is then refunded to the impor ter. The gua ran tee deposits collected are t rans fe r red weekly to an account held by the Cen tral Bank in the name of the au tho r ized bank. Should imports not be made in con fo rm i ty with the regulations, a part of the gua ran tee deposit corre- sponding to up to 10 per cent of the va lue of such imports is forfe i ted to the Treasury. Private compensation t ransac t ions are not perm i t ted in any fo rm, except that the M in i s t ry of Commerce is authorized to conc lude agreemen ts to dispose of goods acquired through price-supporting purchases made by the State. There are special arrangemen ts for the allocation of foreign exchange for exporters of m a n u f a c t u r es and indus tr ial and m in ing products who are en t i t led to foreign exchange allocations equ iva lent to 50 per cent of exports for the ir own import needs or the import needs of their subcontractors. These en t i t lemen ts can be transferred at a freely de term ined price to other industrialists, provided the foreign exchange is used to finance importation of inpu ts for export production. Exporters are entitled to use these fo re ign exchange earnings for paymen ts for goods up to twice the amount of inputs imported u n d er the "cash against goods" scheme. Fur thermore, m anu f a c tu r e rs who have export orders in hand, or are willing to guarantee exports of a specific value, are allowed to arrange for credits abroad in order to finance the ir impo rt needs, up to 50 per cent of the va lue of the export orders in hand or 50 per cent of their export comm i tmen t. The arrangemen ts for credits are subject to the condition that the exporter will repay the ex te rnal credits out 4 For fertilizers, ammon ia, b reed ing animals, and c e r t a in produc ts on liberalized list II, the ra te is 1 per cent. For ma te r ia ls used for shipbuilding, repair, and modification carried out within the country, and for the cons t ruc t ion of sh ipya rds, the r a te is 0.1 per cen t, p rov ided the va lue of impor ts does not exceed LT 25,000; wh en ships are bu i lt abroad or are purchased abroad, the ra te is 0.2 per cent, provided the value of guarantee deposits does not exceed LT 50,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of export earnings. The Government makes available to manu fac tu re rs fore ign exchange conversion autho- rizations f rom the Export Promo t ion Foreign Exchange Fund established in 1970. Moreover, exporters are entitled to priority in foreign exchange allocations equ iva lent to 1 per cent of their foreign exchange receipts in the previous year, subject to a limit of US$50,000. Imports w i thout an allocation of foreign exchange may be permitted by the customs au thor i t ies, the Cen- tral Bank, or the M in is t ry of Finance, under certain conditions. Travelers domiciled in Turkey may bring in for personal or professional (but noncommerc ia l) use goods and mach inery up to a l im it (in terms of total import duties app l icab le) of the Turkish lira equ iva lent of DM 350. Separate l im i ts and conditions apply to imports of goods for personal use, and of pro- fessional ins t rumen ts and mach ines, by persons who have resided abroad for employment or s tudy; these vary w i th the length of stay abroad and w i th the trans- fer of foreign exchange to Turkey. Companies or coop- eratives formed in Turkey by residents temporar i ly wo rk ing abroad may import inves tment goods to the extent of the foreign exchange invested. In add i t ion to personal effects, fore ign tour is ts may impo rt goods and mach ine ry for the ir personal or f am i ly use. Foreign contractors may tempo ra r i ly impo rt machin- ery, vehicles, and scientific ins t rumen ts w i thout request- ing an allocation of fore ign exchange, provided that the goods are proved to be necessary for the ir opera- tions in Turkey. Foreign companies established in Turkey may import spare par ts not intended for new investments w i thout requesting an allocation of fore ign exchange, provided that the goods are necessary for their operations. All such imports requ ire the permis- sion of the exchange control au thor i t ies. The sale or t r an s f er in Turkey of goods impor ted on these terms is subject to the approval of the M in is t ry of Finance. Imports of automobiles,5 trac tors, or professional machinery, etc., w i thout payment of fore ign exchange may be perm i t ted by the Cen tral Bank or the M in is try of Finance, provided that certain cond i t ions are met re la t ing to residence abroad and to rem i t tance and sale of foreign exchange to au thor ized banks in Turkey. Automobiles imported w i thout a fore ign exchange allo- cation may be sold to residents by the Turk ish nationals who had impor ted them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey may sell their automobiles to Turk ish residents, pro- vided that the necessary import du t ies are paid at the t ime of the sale, that Tu rk ish diplomats in the seller's coun try are granted reciprocal privileges, and that the proceeds f rom such sales are not t rans fe r red abroad. Foreign officials, other than diplomats, may not sell to Turk ish na t iona ls any au tomob i les imported du ty free under special agreements. Other fo re ign na t iona ls resi- dent in Turkey may import automobiles under certain 5 Automobiles are not included in the import program. TURKEY conditions, but these must be exported a f ter three years; however, this three-year period may be extended, and the Ministry of Finance may also permit the sale of such cars to the State Supply Office or to nonprof it organizations. In addition to customs du ty, imported goods are sub- ject to the following charges: ( 1) a customs surcharge (mun ic ipal t ax) of 15 per cent of the applicable cus- toms du ty; (2) a stamp du ty of 1 per cent of the declared value; (3) a quay du ty of 5 per cent on the sum of c .i .f. value, customs du ty, customs surcharge, and customs clearance expenses; and (4) a production tax rang ing from 10 per cent to 75 per cent on the sum of dC . i .f. value, customs du ty, customs surcharge, customs clearing expenses, and quay du ty. The quay du ty is not payable on goods imported by air. Under a program introduced in J anu a ry 1980, creditors in respect of arrears on nongua ran teed import payments which had become short-term liabilities of the Central Bank have been given an option of receiv- ing payment either in Turk ish liras or in five fore ign currencies (U.S. dollars, deutsche ma rk, pounds ster- ling, French f rancs, and Swiss f r a n c s ). Local currency obtained under the program is eligible for investment in specified areas; such investments cannot be trans- ferred abroad for at least five years. Claimants exer- cising the foreign currency option could switch to the Turkish lira option up to the end of June 1982. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles requ ire exchange licenses, which usually are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted liberally for the fo l low ing purposes, pro- vided that applications are accompanied by specified documents: payments related to trade ( inc lud ing ship- ping costs and expenditures connected with other f re ight charges), subscriptions to newspapers and peri- odicals, purchases of books, paymen ts for registration fees, advertising expenses, consulate income, payments by the Government, payments by the Post Office Adm in i s t ra t ion and s im i lar state in s t i tu t ion s, banks' com- missions and expenses, a propor t ion of insurance com- panies' payments, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for commercial transactions. The transfer of income related to foreign inves tmen ts approved under the Law for the Encourage- ment of Foreign Investment is pe rm i t ted free ly. Inter- est on long-term loans and credits extended by non- residents to enterprises in Turkey ( inc lud ing those of an agr icu l tural na tu re) may be granted t rans fe rab i l i ty between fore ign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. Turkish citizens may not leave the coun try w i thout ob ta in ing an allocation of foreign exchange for travel, but this does not apply to foreign na t iona ls residing in Turkey. Tourist travel is restricted, in effec t, to one trip a person every three years, and two trips a person a year to Cyprus. A tax of 50 per cent is applied to the purchase of foreign exchange by Turkish nationals 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY traveling abroad. Since May 1, 1981 this tax has been included within the daily exchange rates un i fo rm ly quoted by the Central Bank of Turkey. The maximum foreign exchange allowance for business travel for one trip a year is between US$3,000 and US$4,500, with individual limits determined on the basis of annual profit as indicated in the balance sheet of the applicant's firm. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes (e.g., education, participation in international meetings, fairs, and athletic meets, and personal business) is sold up to specified limits. In addition, persons who can certify that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical treatment may purchase the necessary foreign exchange. Travelers are permitted to take out LT 1,000 in Turkish banknotes and coin. Nonresidents may take out without any restriction the unspent portion of the foreign exchange which they brought in. Nonresident travelers who wish to reconvert liras in to foreign cur- rency when leaving the country are required to present a document showing that foreign exchange had previ- ously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Exports and Export Proceeds The exportation of all goods are free except those prohibited by laws and decrees. Exports transactions can be effected in any of four ways, as follows: (a) Exports based on permit. Certain exports, such as temporary exports and transit trade, require permits from the Ministry of Trade. (b) Exports under licenses. The items subject to this requirement are goods specified in the list attached to the Decree concerning the Export Regime,6 all exports to bilateral countries, and exports under forward sales. The licenses are issued by the M in i s t ry of Trade. (c) Exports based on registration. The following trans- actions are subject to the registration requirement: exports by consignment or joint accounts, exports under credit, exports from free zones and bonded warehouses located abroad, and exports to certain countries such as the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Romania. Registration connotes the export permis- sion given by the Ministry of Trade or other authorities appointed by the Ministry. Conformity for minimum official prices is required in the case of exports based on permits, licenses, or registration. Exports within the framework of Decree No. 8/182 on the encouragement of exports are not based on registration or licenses. (d) Free exports. Exports of goods subject neither to registration nor to license may be effected freely. Exporters are required to sell export proceeds to a bank in Turkey within three months f rom the date of export or within ten days f rom the date on which the 6 Coal, iron ore, and certain other minerals, articles made of precious metals and stones, vegetable and animal oils, oilseeds, fodder, livestock and products thereof, fertilizers and related items, and poppyheads. The list may be changed whenever the export program is modified. 442 foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. Special provisions apply in the following cases: (a) exports by consignment or jo int accounts, in which case, goods are consigned in the name of foreign buyers or commission- aries established in foreign countries, and there are no definite buyers and definite va lue of goods at the time of exports; (b) exports by jo int account, which is a kind of export by consignment, where a certain price has to be guaranteed before the final sales; (c) exports by credit, which are permitted in the case of indus tr ial products eligible for tax r e fund incentives in accordance with Law No. 261, provided that foreign exchange proceeds are received w i th in three years f rom the date of ac tual exports; (d) temporary exports, which are the exports of raw or sem imanufac tured products for processing abroad; (e) commercial exports without quid pro quo in fore ign exchange, which cover exports of samples, g if ts, articles for advertisements, replacement parts needed w i th in the guaran tee period or for goods exported w i th a guarantee, and exports to in te rna t ional fa i rs and exhibitions. In the case of transit trade, wh i le the exports are not subject to m in imum off ic ial prices, exchange proceeds and any commission earned must be repatriated to Turkey. Under an export tax rebate scheme, direct and indirect taxes paid are re funded when manu fac tu red goods or indus t r ial produc ts are exported. The rates of rebate range f rom 5 per cent to 20 per cent of export va lue. Tax incentives inc lude exemption of export earn- ings f rom income and corporation taxes. The exemption range is from 20 per cent to 30 per cent. Export goods are exempt from production tax. Proceeds from Invisibles Firms or individuals not in the category of au tho- rized ins t i tu t ions cannot accept fore ign exchange f rom fore ign tourists and are required to su r render any exchange ea rn ings in the form of foreign banknotes and travelers checks to an authorized bank w i th in one mon th of receipt. Otherwise, fore ign exchange accru- ing to residents for services rendered by them to non- residents must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer w i th in three months from the date on which the service was rendered or w i th in ten days f rom the date of acquisition of the exchange. Foreign travelers wishing to take out articles with a value exceeding LT 2,000 must show proof that they have converted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceeding this limit. The import of Turkish banknotes and coin by trav- elers (whether of Turkish or foreign na t iona l i ty) is l im i ted to LT 1,000. The import of foreign currency by travelers is unrestricted. Capital Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital trans- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution actions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Subject to specific permission issued by the Ministry of Finance, residents may acquire foreign securities. Residents are required to obtain permission to acquire foreign real estate. With the exception of certain investments made in accordance w i th the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments or the Petroleum Law, fore ign companies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating f u n ds in the fo rm of foreign exchange, a l though under certain conditions blocked funds may be used for investment in the tourist industry. Borrowing in Turk ish liras by such foreign companies and contrac- tors is subject to quotas set by the Ministry of Finance in accordance w i th their equ i ty capital in Turkey, but special fac i l i t ies exist for borrowing f rom the "Blocked Currencies Fund" at the Central Bank. Blocked funds are those accrued or accruing to non- residents but not transferab le under the existing exchange control regulations. These include the sale proceeds of real estate situated in Turkey and owned by nonresident physical or ju r id ical persons. Except for approved investments, nonresidents may not convert into foreign currency any assets or balances owned by them, or earnings accruing to them; all earnings are blocked but if, at the end of the calendar year, such earnings are less than LT 10,000, the amount involved is released. Subject to ind iv idual permission, blocked assets and balances may be utilized w i th in Turkey, e.g., for the payment of taxes, insurance, and ma in tenance and repair of property, and for l iv ing expenses of up to LT 30,000 a mon th for each beneficiary for owners of such funds or their authorized representatives, and up to LT 15,000 for certain relatives. Norma l ly, such blocked funds may not be t rans fe r red to others except by legal succession. The investment of blocked funds in the tourist indus t ry is subject to the fo l low ing con- d i t ions: (1) there must be a contribution in new foreign exchange or imported equ ipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked funds to be used and ( 2) the investor must under take not to request t rans fer for at least five years of that part of the capital financed by means of the blocked fund s. Blocked funds used in this manner are considered as foreign capital imported under the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments. A portion of 75 per cent of any holder's blocked funds can be t rans fe r red to the Blocked Currencies Fund at the Central Bank, from which nonresidents may receive credits for their par tner companies' invest- ment requirements in Turkey, provided the permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Dividends and profits derived f rom these credits are blocked and are nontransferable. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance with the Paris Agreement TURKEY on Commercial Debts Owed by Residents of Turkey (1959) may be used either par t ia l ly or wholly by the creditors for investment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any time prior to the date, established under the Agreement, when the balances may be transferred. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the provisions of the Law for the Encourage- ment of Foreign Investments. However, invested funds and income related thereto may not be t rans fe r red abroad before the t rans fer date established under the Agreement, except for investment in export indus tr ies or in other industries ea rn ing fore ign exchange; in such instances, the equivalent of up to 25 per cent of the investment may be transferred annua l ly. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Invest- ments is accorded p re fe ren t ial t rea tmen t. All or part of the invested cap i tal or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the cap i ta l. Upon application, the M in is try of Finance guaran tees the transfer of dividends and of the proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of shares or stock certificates registered on the books of the companies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely t rans fe rab le between foreign nationals, both in Turkey and abroad, and between foreign na t iona ls and residents. The t r an s f er guarantees pass on to the new owner, provided that his name is no t if ied to the M in is try of Finance; if the shares or stock certificates are sold to a resident, however, they must be presented to the M in is t ry of Finance for cancellation of the guarantees. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an ag r icu l tu ral n a t u r e) may be accorded the same t rans fer benefits. Foreign cap i tal imported under the Petroleum Law is accorded addi- tional preferential trea tmen t. Foreign inves tmen ts out- side the petroleum sector may be made "under the mone tary regulations," in which case the investor is not entitled to any t ran s fer fac i l i t ies for earn ings or liquidation proceeds. Transactions in securities, inc lud ing the ir export and import, require approval when nonres ident interests are involved. There are special fac i l i t ies for the acquisition of Turkish shares and bonds by Turkish citizens work ing abroad. Nonresidents and Turkish na t iona ls work ing abroad are no longer permitted to open, or to add to, demand and time accounts with commercial banks in convertible Turkish liras, carrying an exchange guaran tee of the Central Bank. On existing accounts, the exchange rate guarantee is limited to the amount of deposits held on March 1, 1978. In add i t ion, authorized banks with deposits exceeding LT 2 billion or w i th exchange pro- ceeds exceeding US$30 million are perm i t ted to incur an overall foreign exchange position (in currencies purchased and sold by the Central B ank) of up to US$20 million. 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY With the exception of borrowing by the Government from foreign governments or government agencies and from international institutions, all private sector and public sector borrowing abroad is regulated. The total amount of private and public sector borrowing abroad from private sources, including suppliers' credits, is determined in an annual program by the Ministry of Finance, which also specifies the eligible sectors and projects. The Ministry of Finance, after consultation with other ministries if appropriate, is authorized to approve such credits and to issue a guaran tee of the transferability of the foreign exchange. It is the responsi- bility of the intermediating bank to guarantee the repayment in liras. Turkish borrowers pay that bank the relevant commissions, and expenses up to 1 per cent. Regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance specify that the ma tur i ty of such credits must not be less than two years and the rate of interest must not exceed the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR) by more than 2.25 per cent. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Turkey for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad; any unworked gold held in Turkey, however, may be presented for m in t ing by the State M in t. Gold may be imported freely, provided it is sold to the Central Bank. Exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry require licenses issued by the M in is try of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus tr ial users. Changes during 1981 January 27. The import program for 1981 came into effect. The list of goods subject to global quotas, accounting for 12 per cent of total imports in 1980, was abolished, and these goods were transferred to list I or II. May 1. The Central Bank of Turkey was authorized to publish daily exchange rates for fore ign currencies. August 27. The special exchange rate applicable for transfers to students studying abroad was abolished. November 3. The special exchange rate for the importation of fertilizer and pesticides was abolished. November 27. The Central Bank extended to Decem- ber 31, 1981 the deadline for fore ign holders to register their option to be paid in Turk ish liras or foreign currency; creditors opting for liras were given an extension until June 30, 1982. 444 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Uganda is the Uganda Shilling. The daily exchange ra te of the Uganda shilling vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar is determined independently tak ing into account movements in the exchange value of the currencies of Uganda's other ma jor t rad ing partners. The Bank of Uganda rarely deals in fo re ign currenc iesl other than deutsche mark, pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and Japanese yen. On December 31, 1981 the official buy ing and selling rates were U Sh 84.75 and U Sh 85.55, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates for the U.S. dollar in the in terna t ional market. Authorized commercial banks in Uganda deal in all specified currenc ies2 at official rates quoted by the Bank of Uganda or, for a currency not quoted officially, at rates calculated according to preva i l ing cross rates. Authorized banks may free ly deal fo rwa rd with cus- tomers in sterling, U.S. dollars, and other currencies, provided that there is an unde r ly ing approved import or export contract and that the term of the forward con- tract does not exceed three mon ths; contracts for longer periods require exchange control approval. Authorized fore ign exchange dealers impose a service charge of 1 per cent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control The Bank of Uganda adm in is te rs exchange control on behalf of the M in is ter of Finance. Import and export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce. The M in is t ry of Commerce has powers to prohibit imports and exports. Prescription of Currency The Bank of Uganda holds reciprocal accounts with the central banks of Kenya and Tanzania, which are settled in U.S. dollars. Authorized paymen ts, includ- ing payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to residents of foreign countries other than Israel and South Afr ica may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any other currency that is appropriate to the coun try of residence of the payee. Receipts f rom §uch countries may be obtained in Uganda shillings from an External Account in Uganda or in any convertible currency. Payments to Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Certain settlements w i th Bu rund i, Rwanda, and Zaire are channeled through special accounts. 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other shilling. a Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish and Faroese k rone r, deutsche m a r k, French f rancs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lders, No rweg ian kroner, Po r tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all currencies of the fo rmer Sterling Area other than the Uganda shilling. than the Uganda Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of foreign countries are designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments by residents of Uganda, with transfers from other External Accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom sales of any foreign currency and gold by nonresidents of Uganda to authorized dealers. They may be debited freely for payments to nonresidents, for t rans fe rs to o ther External Accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of fore ign currencies f rom authorized dealers. Non transferab le funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts ma in ta ined with commercial banks. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferab le beginning five years f rom the date of purchase. Subject to individual per- mission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Israel and South A f r ica are pro- h ib i ted. Imports are controlled th rough import licens- ing and fore ign exchange allocations. Imports are sub- ject to import licenses issued by the Ugandan Advisory Board of Trade (UABT) under the Minister of Com- merce. Imports normally must be purchased directly from the country of origin. Documen tary evidence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be forwarded to the exchange control au thor i t ies w i th in six months from the date of paymen t. Mon th ly allocations for foreign exchange are prepared by a committee chaired by the Governor of the Bank of Uganda and approved by the President's Economic Advisory Committee. There has been some accumula- tion of arrears on payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are subject to approval by the Bank of Uganda, and payments to Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. No fore ign exchange is provided for tourist travel. Expatriates working in Uganda may obtain allocations for travel outside East Afr ica at the time of their overseas leave, subject to the terms of the original contracts of service. Foreign exchange is not normally released for nursery, primary, and secondary education abroad except for secondary technical education. Children of diplomats, technical assistance personnel, nonna t iona ls working in Uganda on overseas terms, nonnational missionaries, and other special cases are exempted f rom these restrictions. Facilities exist whereby salaried foreign nationals may remit to their country of origin up to 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA one third of their gross monthly earnings, to cover fam i ly maintenance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment which includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the con- tract. Transfers of dividends and profits are subject to special regulations; thus, foreign-owned companies must retain in Uganda at least 20 per cent of the profits made in any business year, and they are not allowed to remit interim dividends. Certain current payments are in arrears. The export of Uganda banknotes and coin by travelers is prohibited, except that travelers may take out U Sh 1,000 in Uganda currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exports require licenses f rom the UABT and may be restricted to ensure suff ic ient supplies for consumption in Uganda. The Uganda Tea Au thor i ty has a monopoly over the export of tea, the Coffee Ma rke t ing Board over the export of coffee, and the L int Marke t ing Board over the export of raw cotton. Export proceeds in specified currencies (see foot- note 2) must be collected w i th in six months of expor- tation and sold to an authorized bank for Uganda shillings. The authorized bank must in tu rn surrender these proceeds to the Bank of Uganda within three business days, fa i lure of which entails payment of interest at a rate of 5 per cent above LIBOR. Coffee, cotton, copper, and hides and skins are subject to export duty. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized bank w i th in 48 hours. The import of Uganda banknotes and coin by travelers is prohibited, except that re tu rn ing residents may bring in U Sh 1,000 a person. Travelers may freely bring in banknotes denominated in specified currencies and foreign currency travelers checks. Capital Capital t rans fe rs to all countries are restricted and those to Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Foreign assets must be deposited w i th an authorized depository, except that residents of Uganda may be granted exemp- tion in respect of specified fo rmer Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Capital transfers require ind iv idual exchange control approval. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may normally t rans fer their assets up to the equivalent of U Sh 50,000. A fu r th er transfer of up to the equiva- lent of U Sh 20,000 upon each ann iversary of the emigrant's departure is allowed. All rema in ing funds must be credited to a Blocked Account and may either be invested in certain approved securities or be held on deposit with commercial banks; such funds become 446 transferable af ter five years. The income f rom such investments is transferab le du r ing the period when the funds are blocked. Foreign investment is permitted in Uganda with or w i thout government par t ic ipa t ion. Certain industries, such as public utilities, transpor ta t ion, telecommunica- tions, shipping, and the ma rke t ing of key commodities, are wholly reserved for government ownership. In other key industries, such as textiles, brewing, animal feed manufac ture, the dairy industry, and tourism, the Government may pre-empt a cer ta in percentage of the ownership but does accept pr iva te inves tment f rom both domestic and fore ign sources. To secure a guarantee of repa tr ia t ion, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Protection) Act, 1964; in normal circumstances, approved s ta tus is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval und er the Licensing Act of 1969. Dividends and profits due to nonresidents f rom no rmal trad ing operations and d is tr ibu ted by companies opera t ing in Uganda are, in principle, t rans fe rab le. All imports and exports of securities requ ire approval. Approval is freely gran ted for the purchase by nonresi- dents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropr ia te manner. The income f rom such securities is remittable, and the proceeds on resale are norma l ly remittable also. Purchases of securities outside Uganda by residents are not no rma l ly perm i t ted. A resident of Uganda may not send money abroad, for whatever purpose, w i thout specific exchange control approval. With minor exceptions, prior exchange con- trol approval is required for loans or ove rd ra ft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a corporate body resident in Uganda that is controlled, directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Uganda. Gold A commemorative gold coin w i th a face value of U Sh 500 is legal tender but in practice does not circu- late. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the mone tary au thor i t ies and autho- rized indus t r ial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any fo rm other than jewelry. .Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry cons t i tu t ing the personal effec ts of a traveler requ ire licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Finance. Export licenses are not norma l ly granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary au thor i t ies and indus t r ial users. The import of the following f rom all sources is subject to ind iv idual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or p la t inum; gold- smiths' or silversmiths' wares, inc lud ing set gems; bul- lion in the fo rm of ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coin. Import licenses for gold bullion, gold jewelry, and gold coin are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Changes during 1981 June 1. The rate of export du ty on coffee was raised from 80 per cent to 100 per cent on a price exceeding U Sh 34,900 a ton. June 1. All import duties levied at specific rates were changed to an ad valorem basis, and the import taxa- tion structure was rationalized by reducing the number of d ifferent rates from 22 to 12. June 8. The fixed relationship between the Uganda shilling and the SDR at the rate of U Sh 9.6600 = SDR 1 was discontinued and the shilling was allowed to float independently; on the first day of floating the shilling was depreciated by 89 per cent against the U.S. dollar, f rom U Sh 8.4448 to U Sh 78 per US$1. October 1. The collection of the export duties on coffee was changed from an ad valorem basis to an arrangement whereby the Treasury receives the d if- ference between the export market price in local cur- rency and the cost of purchasing and marketing the coffee. December 1. Export proceeds not surrendered by the commercial banks within three business days were made subject to interest payment at a rate of 5 per cent above LIBOR. 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES1 (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U.A.E. Dirham, which is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 = SDR 1. The United Arab Emirates has established margins of 7.25 per cent around the official rate. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency, and the Central Bank publishes buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar only. On December 31, 1981 the official buying and selling rates were Dh 3.6690 and Dh3 .6730, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank sets no limits on the amount of U.S. dollars that it is prepared to buy from or sell to any commercial bank. Commercial banks are free to enter into foreign exchange transactions at rates of their own choosing; the rates quoted by commercial banks for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of in terna t ional quotations. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. There is a swap fac i l i ty at the Central Bank which the commercial banks may use to purchase d irhams spot and sell dirhams forward for periods of one week, one mon th, and three months. For each bank, maximum limits of US$20 million outstanding for one-month and three-month swaps and US$10 million ou ts tand ing for one-week swaps are in effect. There is also a limit of US$3 million in purchases a day for each bank for one-month and three-month swaps. The United Arab Emirates fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, on February 13, 1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control au thor i ty in the United Arab Emirates, and there are no registration requirements for inwa rd or outward transfers. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the authorities of the Emirate concerned. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited.2 No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force . Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of products manu fac tu red by foreign com- panies blacklisted by the A rab League are prohibited. 1 The seven federa ted states of the United Arab Emirates are Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, A jm an, Umm al Qaiwain, Ras al Khaimah, and Fu ja i rah. 2 In addition, all imports f rom and all exports to these countries are prohibited. 448 Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for health or security reasons. V ir tua l ly all other commodities may be freely imported w i thout an ind iv idual import permit, but only licensed parties can enter the import trade and an importer can import only the commodities specified in his license. There are no restrictions on the ava i lab i l i ty of fo re ign exchange for payments in respect of perm i t ted imports. Exports and Export Proceeds V i r tua l ly all commodities may be exported freely, w i thout an export license, to any des t ina t ion. Each Emirate establishes its own export regulations. The proceeds f rom exports need not be repa tr ia ted or sur- rendered and may be disposed of free ly, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely. There are no requ iremen ts govern ing receipts. Travelers may take out and b r ing in any amount in fo re ign or domestic bankno tes. Capital No exchange control requ iremen ts are imposed on capital receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresi- dents. Not less than 70 per cent of corporate shares must be held by na t iona ls or organizations of the United Arab Emirates; two th irds of the board of directors, together with the cha i rman, must also be nationals of the United Arab Emirates. Profits on foreign capital invested in the Un i ted A rab Emirates may be remitted freely. Gold Residents and nonres iden ts may f ree ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. They may also, w i thout a permit, import and export gold in any form, but the import of gold for trade purposes may be unde r taken only by licensed parties. Gold bullion is exempt f rom import du ty but jewelry is not. Changes during 1981 May 19. Changes were made in incorporation and investment regulations, inc lud ing the requ iremen ts that (a) the capital of a f inanc ial company wou ld be not less than 50 million U.A.E. d i rhams; (b) not less th an 70 per cent of corporate shares would be held by U.A.E. na t iona ls or o rgan iza t ions; (c) shares could not be sold for the first three years a f t er inco rpo ra t ion or before the company had made a p ro f it of at least 10 per cent of equ i ty; and (d) the cha i rman and two thirds of the board of directors would be U.A.E. nationals. June 22. It was announced that to do business as a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution money changer would require a license f rom the Cen- tral Bank; in addition, business capital would be required to be at least Dh 500,000, of which 30 per cent must be deposited with the Central Bank. September 20. A 30 per cent surtax was imposed on imports of tobacco products. UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM1 (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Kingdom is the Pound Sterling. The authorities of the United Kingdom do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and the exchange rate is determined largely by the balance of market forces. Whether the rate is rising or falling, intervention by the authorities is limited to smoothing operations to moderate excessive fluctuations and preserve orderly markets. The closing selling and buying rates in the foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1981 were US$1.9100 and US$1.9120, respectively, per <£!. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coin at free market rates of exchange. The United Kingdom formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls have been abolished. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the Depart- ment of Trade, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. For import licensing purposes, countries outside the United Kingdom are divided into 12 groups: the ACP Area ;2 the CEFTA Area ;3 the Community Area ;4 the Dollar Area;5 the Far Eastern and Western Area;6 the Mediter- ranean Area ;7 the OCT Area ;8 the German Democratic iW i th effect f rom April 3, 1982 the United Kingdom, for security reasons, temporarily suspended use as well as transferability of Argen- t ine f inanc ial assets in the United Kingdom. 2 The ACP Area comprises Bahamas, Barbados, Benin, Botswana, Bu rund i, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Niger, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, Sudan, Sur iname, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuvalu, Uganda, Upper Volta, Western Samoa, Zaire, and Zambia. 3 The CEFTA Area comprises Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Federal Republic of Germany and Berlin (Wes t ), Greece, Iceland, Republic of Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Nether- lands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. 4 The Commun i ty Area comprises all EC member states. 5 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, N icaragua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. 6 The Far Eastern and Western Area comprises Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and United States. 7 The Med i terranean Area comprises Cyprus, Egyp t, Israel, Lebanon, Malta, Morocco, Spain, Tunisia, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. 8 The OCT Area comprises An t igua, Belize, British Antarctic Terri- tory, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands, Brunei, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands and Dependencies, French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Lands, Mayotte, Montserrat, Nether- 450 Republic and Berlin (East) and the U.S.S.R.; Romania; the State Trading Area;9 the Residual Textile Area;10 and all other countries. With the exception of cer ta in textile goods,11 most imports are admitted under an Open General Import License w i thout restriction, with the following excep- tions as at the end of 1981: ( 1) from all countries, two commodities or groups of commodities;12 (2) f rom the Dollar Area only, one group of commodities; (3) f rom the Dollar Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Residual Textile Area, and the State Trading Area, one commodity; (4) from Roman ia only, one group of commodities; (5) from the German Democratic Repub- lic and Berlin (East) and the U.S.S.R. only, one group of commodities; and ( 6) f rom the State Trad ing Area only, seven commodities or groups of commodities. Individual import licenses are required where goods cannot be imported under the au thor i ty of the Open General Import License; some items are subject to surveillance licensing under which import licenses are issued freely on demand to applicants providing certain informa t ion. Most articles subject to specific import licensing can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open individual licenses, i.e., without limit as to quan t i ty or value. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mu t ton and lamb, poultry meat, and da iry products other than bu t ter and cheese are subject to m in imum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Impor ts of many other agricultural, hor t icu l tura l, and livestock products are subject to EC regulations. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. Sterling banknotes may be dispatched to nonresidents against lands Antilles (Aruba, Bonaire, Curacao, St. Eustatius, St. Maarten, and Saba ), New Caledonia and Dependencies, P i tca irn, St. Helena and Dependencies, St. Pierre and Miquelon, Tu rks and Caicos Islands, V a n u a t u, Wallis and Fu tuna Islands, and West Indies Associated States (St. Christopher-Nevis and Angu i l la ). 9 The State Trading Area comprises A lban ia, Bu lga r ia, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Democratic Republic and Ber l in (E a s t ), Hunga ry, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 10 The Residual Textile Area comprises all coun tr ies and territories other than Algeria, Argen t ina, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Jo rdan, Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syrian A rab Reptiblic, Taiwan, Thailand, Uruguay, Zimbabwe, and those comprising the ACP Area, the CEFTA Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Med i terranean Area, the OCT Area, and the State T rad ing Area. 11 The restrictions on textiles do not apply to countries in Western Europe, Aus t ra l ia, Canada, New Zealand, or the Un i ted States. 12 The skins of certain rare animals, most pr imary whale products, and a number of other wildlife products, inc lud ing raw ivory, tortoise- shell, and plumage, cannot be imported without an import license issued by the appropriate department. Cocoa and cocoa products may be imported only if consignments are certified that bu f fer stock pay- ments required under the international cocoa agreement of 1980 have been made. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution payment in sterling or in any fo re ign currency. For any type of travel U.K. residents can obtain on demand f rom banks and travel agents such fore ign exchange as they may require without limitation. The cost of accom- modation, fares, etc., can be paid for w i thout limit in the United Kingdom. Personal checks may be cashed abroad and credit cards may be used w i thout restriction. Travelers may take out any amount in sterling or fo re ign currency notes. Residents may retain unused travel exchange expressed in foreign currency a f t er r e tu rn to the Un i ted Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds V ir tua l ly all exports are free of export control and there are no requ i remen ts a f f e c t ing export proceeds. Under the Tender to Contract Fac i l i ty of the Export Credit Gua ran tee Depa r tmen t, exporters bidding for ma jor capital projects in U.S. do l lars or deutsche ma rk may obtain cover against exchange rate fluctuations between the submission of their bid and the award of the contract. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in fore ign currencies on account of invisibles may be retained or may be sold for sterling. British and other bankno tes may be brought into the Un i ted Kingdom freely. Capital There are no res tr ic t ions on capital t rans fe rs by residents of the Un i ted Kingdom in to the beneficial ownership of residents of other countries. All proceeds f rom the realization, redemption, or ma tu r i ty of s ter l ing capital assets ( inc lud ing direct inves tmen ts) are remit- table at the market rate of exchange. Residents of the Un i ted Kingdom who leave w i th the in ten t ion of residing abroad may t ran s fer all their assets on depar ture from the Un i ted Kingdom. Repatriates who, hav ing been resident in the Un i ted Kingdom, re tu rn to take up residence in any other country may t rans fer all their sterling assets abroad at the market ra te of exchange. Investments, whe ther direct or portfolio, may be freely made in the Un i ted Kingdom by nonresidents or abroad by residents. However, cases invo lv ing the takeover of existing U.K. companies that by their size or na tu re constitute a vital part of British industry may be subject to consideration under the provisions of the Fair Trading Act of 1973. The Government also has powers under the Indus t ry Act of 1975 to prevent or undo undesirable fore ign takeovers of impor tant m anu f a c tu r ing under tak ings, but these powers have never been used. There are no restrictions on trans- actions in sterling or fore ign currency securities, which may be exported or imported, w i thout formality. War- rants issued by registrars, company secretaries, and paying agents in respect of interest, dividends, and UNITED KINGDOM cap i tal paymen ts on securities registered in the names of nonresidents may be dispatched abroad free ly. Banks may free ly accept fore ign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency business or convert them to sterling, subject to pruden t ial guidelines issued by the Bank of England concerning the l im i ta t ion of risks arising f rom their fore ign exchange exposure. Gold Gold bu l l ion and gold coin are not subject to control in the United K ingdom. Gold sovereigns are legal tender but do not circulate. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man which are legal tender there. Except under license gran ted by the Treasury, it is an o f fense to melt down or break up any metal coin which is for the t ime being cu r rent in the Un i ted Kingdom or which, hav ing been current there, has at any time a f ter May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The export of gold in m a n u f a c t u r ed fo rm over 50 years old and valued at £8,000 and over for each item or ma tch ing set of items also requires a license f rom the Department of Trade. There is a f ree gold ma rket in London in which gold bars are free ly traded. The U.K. authorities do not intervene in the ma rket as either buyers or sellers. Changes during 1981 January L The quan t i ta t ive restrictions applied w i th in the EC f ramewo rk on imports of cer ta in goods (e.g., rubber footwear, patches, and po t tery) from Eastern Europe were eased, in most cases by an increase of over 10 per cent in existing quotas. Restrictions on radiograms and certain a lum inum products under the United Kingdom's agreements w i th the EC and with Romania were abolished, and restrictions on other alu- m inum products were suspended. In add i t ion, licensing requ iremen ts on imports f rom Greece were abolished as a result of Greece's accession to the EC; quotas on ce r ta in synthetic textiles and quotas on imports of foo twear f rom Taiwan were also d iscon t inued. January 22. Trade sanctions aga inst Iran were abolished. January 22. With effect f rom February 2, 1981, the M in is ter for Trade announced a new scheme by the Export Credit Guarantee Depa r tment to match excep- t iona l ly soft mixed credit o f fe rs made by competitors. February 6. Import quotas for iron and steel products f rom the German Democratic Republic, East Berlin, and the U.S.S.R. were reduced by 15 per cent for 1981 compared w i th 1980, similar reduc t ions having been made in levels established under vo lun ta ry agreement for imports into the EC in 1981 f rom m a j or supp ly ing countries. April 24. The Bank of England published new guide- lines for banks and other deposit-taking in s t i tu t ions con- cerning the control of risks arising f rom the ir fore ign exchange exposure. June 26. Importation of silk yarn and specified woven 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM silk fabrics from certain state trad ing countries was liberalized. November 17. With effect from December 23, 1981, the Department of Trade introduced the Export of Goods (Control) Order, 1981, which superseded the 1978 Order. The new Order involved changes in the restrictions on the export of goods controlled for strategic or security reasons. 452 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United States is the U.S. dollar. The U.S. authorities do not maintain marg ins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary to counter disor- derly conditions in the exchange markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The United States forma l ly notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury administers license applications involving direct or indirect financial or com- mercial transactions with Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam or their nationals, as specified under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations and the Cuban Assets Con- trol Regulations. It also has administrative responsibility for blocked accounts of the above countries as well as accounts of Czechoslovakia,1 Estonia, the German Democratic Republic, Latvia, and L i thuan ia, blocked since World War II under the Foreign Funds Control Regulations.2 The Customs Service of the Treasury Department administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are f requen t ly established and allocated by other agencies. Import quotas on specified dairy products are adminis- tered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. The global import quota in 1981 on sugar was 6.9 million short tons, which is above normal imports of 4-5 million tons. Allocations and licenses for imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products are issued by the Department of Energy. For items subject to export control —other than crude petro- leum and petroleum products —the Department of Com- merce is, in general, the responsible authority. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed for security reasons on transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Cuba, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, Iran (see foo tno te 2 ), the Democra- tic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam. Certain payments to Cuba for support of relatives in Cuba and 1 Under the agreement on settlement of claims, concluded between the United States and Czechoslovakia in 1981, blocked accounts between the two countries were scheduled to be unblocked in March 1982. 2 Restrictions on payments to Iran, except for paymen ts f rom Iranian assets blocked as of Janua ry 19, 1981, were revoked on January 19, 1981, pu rsuant to an Executive Order and to regulations issued there- under. Iran ian assets blocked as of Janua ry 19, 1981 have, with limited exceptions, been t rans fe r red to Iran or to various escrow accounts as set fo r th in the agreements between the United States and Iran. for purposes of authorized travel in Cuba are permitted, as are certain payments in connection with travel to and in the United States by Cuban nationals. Remittances to the remitter's close relatives in Viet Nam are also permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports or ig ina t ing in Cuba, Democratic Kampu- chea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam are prohibited under Treasury regulations, unless specifically licensed. Import quotas are in effect for ( 1) cotton, certain cotton waste and products, most da iry products, and peanuts; (2) certain fish and certain potatoes ( t a r i f f- rate quo t a s ); and (3) sugar (nonrestrictive). Moreover, quotas may be imposed by the President under specified conditions on certain types of meat. Among the quan- t i ta t ive import quotas, all except those for peanuts, cer- ta in cotton products, butter, oil, and sugar are on a country-of-production basis. In addition, imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products are subject to an import entitlement program and import license fees. Certain dairy products that are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. The United States is a par ty to the GATT Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and to 24 bilateral textile agree- ments negotiated in accordance with the Arrangement's provisions. These agreements restrict t rad ing partners' exports of textiles and apparel to the United States. The agreements provide for orderly expansion of trade with- out disrupting U.S. markets for textile and apparel products. As of the end of 1981, no limitations were applied to imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products but these were generally subject to import licenses and a goal that net imports in to the 50 states should not exceed an average rate of 8.2 million barrels a day. Imports of a number of manu fac tu red products are also effectively restricted by bilateral agreements or by the multilateral procedures of GATT Article XIX designed to provide temporary relief to certain distressed industries, including those of clothespins, color tele- visions, ferrochrome, mushrooms, and cookware. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) scheme went into operation in the United States in January 1976 and is scheduled to continue through Janua ry 2, 1985. Under a new procedure referred to as "graduation," eligibility could be withdrawn from certain countries on a product-by-product basis. Cumulative treatment under the GSP scheme is extended to members of the Andean Group and of the ASEAN: cumu la t ion allows two or more member countries of an eligible association to con tr ibu te jo in t ly to the requ i rement that at least 35 per cent of the value added in a given product should origi- na te in the beneficiary country. Du r ing the six years ended in December 1981, duty-free imports by the 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES United States under the scheme have increased f rom US$3.2 billion to US$8.4 billion. Exports and Export Proceeds Munitions may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Munitions Control in the Department of State. Licenses are required for exports of crime control and detection equipment as well as ins trumen ts and related technical data to all countries except other mem- bers of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO ), Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. The Department of Commerce administers controls on exports directly f rom the United States and on re-exports of goods of U.S. origin from any area. (The Treasury Department admin- isters controls on exports to certain areas of goods of foreign origin by foreign firms that are owned or con- trolled by U.S. na t iona ls .) All exports to Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam (w i th the exception of publicly available technical data and educational materials, personal baggage, and limited gift parcels) are prohibited unless individually licensed. Exports of designated strategic materials and equipment to all other countries (except Canada) also require ind iv idual validated licenses. For many commodities, when exported to countries other than Afghanistan, member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA ), Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Viet Nam, single distribution licenses may be obtained to cover a full year's shipment. The licensing requirements applicable to Yugoslavia are less restrictive than those applicable to other Eastern Euro- pean countries. Under the authority of the Export Administration Act of 1979, the President can suspend the export of goods for reasons of national security, foreign policy, or short supply in the domestic economy, although every effort is made to make sparing use of such authority. For agricultural commodities, such as wheat, corn, sorghum, soybeans, and soybean oil, exporting companies partici- pate in a reporting system that is designed to improve market information and to allow for more orderly exporting and, thereby, lessen substantially the need for government intervention. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, except for payments to or for the account of the authori- ties or nationals of Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam, which are permitted only under license.3 U.S. residents 3 Certain payments and transfers to the Government of Iran, its ins trumen ta l i t ies, and controlled entities involving stand-by letters of credit, performance bonds, and similar obligations with Iran con- tracted prior to January 20, 1981 are subject to restrictions. 454 are allowed to remit up to US$500 a quarter to close relatives in Cuba and US$300 a quarter to close relatives in Viet Nam. In addition, remittances of up to US$500 to Cuba and US$750 to Viet Nam are allowed to aid in a relative's emigration f rom those countries. Certain transactions in connection with authorized travel in Cuba are permitted. Receipts f rom Cuba, Democratic Kam- puchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam are generally prohibited, except as authorized. Ind iv idua ls leaving or entering the country w i th more than US$5,000 in domestic or foreign currency, travelers checks, money orders, or bearer-form negotiable securi- ties must declare these to the customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are n<ot subject to exchange control. In add i t ion, inward and outward direct or portfolio invest- ment is generally free of any other form of approval requirement. Investments involving ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state bank ing regula- tions. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transactions with, or involving, Cuba, Democra- tic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam (see footnote 3 concerning I r a n ). In add i t ion, there are certain reporting requirements for travelers entering or leaving the coun try when they are carrying more than US$5,000 in cash or negotiable ins trumen ts (as well as corresponding reporting require- ments for shipment of currency or bearer assets through the ma i ls ). In addition, ownership of U.S. fa rm land by foreign nationals must be registered with the Federal Government. Member banks are discouraged by the Federal Reserve Board from soliciting or encouraging placement of deposits by U.S. residents at their foreign branches, unless such deposits are placed to serve a definite, neces- sary purpose outside the United States. The foreign cur- rency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual currencies, are not subject to prudential limitations of a quan t i ta t ive na tu re, but banks are expected to follow normal bank ing practices and not ma in ta in imprudent positions. U.S. agencies and branches of foreign banks as well as domestic banks are subject to Federal Reserve requirements. Beginning December 3, 1981 U.S. depository institu- tions, U.S. offices of Edge and Agreement Corporations,4 and U.S. branches and agencies of fore ign banks may establish international bank ing fac i l i t ies (IBFs) in the United States. IBFs may accept deposits only f rom fo re ign residents ( inc lud ing b a n k s ), f rom other IBFs, or f rom the institution establishing the IBF. Such funds are exempt f rom reserve requirements of Regulation D and f rom interest rate limitations of Regulation Q. For 4 These are denned as domestically chartered corporations authorized to engage in international bank ing and financial operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution nonbank foreign residents, the m in imum ma tu r i ty or notice requirement is two business days, and the m in i- mum transaction amount is US$100,000. Funds raised by an IBF may be used only to extend credit to fore ign residents, to other IBFs, or to the entity establishing the IBF. Credit to nonbank fore ign residents is to be extended on condition that the f u n ds are used in their operations outside the Un i ted States. Advances f rom an IBF to its es tab l ish ing en t i ty in the Un i ted States are subject to the reserve requ irement on Eurocurrency liabilities in the same manner as advances to the estab- l ish ing en t i ty f rom the en t i ty 's fo re ign offices. A num- ber of ind iv idual states (but not the Federal Govern- m e n t) have g ran ted favo rab le t rea tment under the law to IBF operations. In add i t ion, federal legislation was enacted to exempt deposits at IBFs f rom FDIC insur- ance coverage and assessments. Gold U.S. citizens or residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, except for certain gold transactions (e.g., imports or exports) involving Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democra- tic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam. Com- mercial banks may deal in gold bullion and gold coin, with the same exceptions. Treasury licensing for import- ers, exporters, producers, refiners, and processors of gold is not required, with the same coun try exceptions. Producers of gold may sell their output in the f ree mar- ket, with the same country exceptions. Gold may be freely imported except from the countries mentioned above and except counterfeit gold coins. U.S. gold coins are legal tender at their face value. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are free of quan- titative restriction but are subject to import duty at a rate of approximately 12 per cent. There is no duty on gold ore, bullion, or coin. All forms of gold must be declared at the point of entry into the United States. Changes during 1981 January 1. Within the framework of the Tokyo Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations, the Agreement on Government Procurement and the Customs Valuation Code entered into force. (The United States and the European Community have, however, applied the provi- sions of the Customs Valuation Code from July 1, 1980.) January 14. The Department of Commerce imposed a temporary an t idump ing du ty of 13.5 per cent on the f.o.b. value of imports of na tu ral or synthetic menthol f rom the People's Republic of China; following a nega- tive ru l ing by the In te rna t ional Trade Commission (ITC) regarding material in jury, the duty was termi- na ted on May 7, 1981. January 15. The President signed an Executive Order in troduc ing a new policy on the export of hazardous products. The State Department was required to no t i fy foreign governments in cases where products subject to U.S. domestic controls or prohibitions are planned for UNITED STATES export. (Previously, a variety of separate U.S. agencies made their own notifications to foreign governments.) January 19. Executive Order No. 12282 was signed by the President, eliminating, with one exception, the restrictions introduced by the Iranian Assets Control Regulations of November 14, 1979 on international transactions with Iran. The exception related to the continuing prohibition on transactions involving stand-by letters of credit, performance bonds, and similar obli- gations with Iran contracted prior to Janua ry 19, 1981. January 20. Iran ian assets held by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and by overseas banks and offices of U.S. banks were transferred as required by the Janua ry 19, 1981 agreements between I ran and the United States (the Algiers Accords). January 26. A fishing treaty was signed with Norway. February 2. The Department of Commerce imposed a dumping duty of 9.9 per cent on the f.o.b. value of imports of precipitated barium carbonate f rom the Fed- eral Republic of Germany. February 17. The President revoked the Executive Order on exports of hazardous products adopted by the previous Adm in is tra t ion (item Janua ry 15) and initiated a multiagency review process. February 20. The Department of Commerce revoked the countervailing duty of 0.5 per cent on imports of handbags f rom Korea. February 24. In implementation of various Executive Orders pu r suant to the Algiers Accords, the Treasury Department issued a number of regulations (a) eliminat- ing nearly all trade and financial sanctions against Iran; ( b) providing for the t rans fer of blocked Iran ian assets to Iran and to a security account for U.S. claimants against Iran; and (c) suspending certain claims of U.S. nationals against Iran pending review by the Iranian-U.S. Claims Tribunal. February 25. Federal Reserve Board Circular No. 9024 allowed banks and bank holding companies to invest in foreign companies, including banks that trans- act business in the United States. February 25. Federal Reserve Board Circular No. 9025 specified the reporting requirements for for- eign banking organizations. March 11. Trigger prices for imports of steel that had been raised by 0.9 per cent for the first quarter of 1981 were fu r ther increased by 4.4 per cent for the second quar ter of 1981. (The trigger price mechanism allows the Department of Commerce to initiate an t idump ing investigations when imports are supplied at prices below the established trigger prices.) March 12. The Department of Commerce imposed a cash deposit at a rate of 29.5 per cent on imports of specified wax products from the German Democratic Republic; the deposit rate was changed subsequently to 51.4 per cent on April 29, 1981 and 13.02 per cent on August 31, 1981, following final affirmative determina- tion of material in ju ry by the ITC and confirmation of 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES sales at less than f a ir value by the Department of Commerce. March 19. A procedure referred to as "graduation" was introduced in the application of the GSP. Under the new procedure, eligibility could be withdrawn from certain countries on a product-by-product basis, the objective being to expand export opportunities for the mid-level and less advanced developing countries by reducing such benefits from more developed countries. The factors to be considered in determining graduation would be (a) a country's level of economic develop- ment; (b) its competitive level in the pa r t icu lar product; (c) the overall economic interests of the United States; and (d) the effect that GSP treatment for a country was having on domestic producers of competing articles. March 19. It was announced that five ma jor supply sources (Braz i l, Hong Kong, Republic of Korea, Mexico, and Ta iwan) would be subject to graduation for certain produc ts under the GSP in 1981, affec t ing a total of 29 items with a trade va lue of US$510 million (see also item March 31 ). March 27. The Treasury Department issued a notice that, in accordance with an agreement between the United States and France, special certificates of origin would be available for importation f rom France of nickel-bearing materials and articles produced by Creusot-Loire or its affiliates. The certificates will serve to establish that the certified materials do not contain any nickel of Cuban origin and thus may be imported into the United States. March 31. A total of 204 products were declared ineligible for the GSP scheme, on the ground that these items were considered to be fully competitive under the graduation policy (see items March 19, above ). It was estimated that about 68 per cent of the affected products originated from Brazil, Hong Kong, Republic of Korea, Mexico, and Taiwan. In addition, several products, pri- marily coats, jackets, and vests made of down, were removed from the list eligible for the GSP, on grounds of "import sensitivity"; the major suppliers of these items were Hong Kong, Republic of Korea, and Taiwan. March 31. Cumulative treatment under the GSP scheme was extended to the Andean Group and the Association of South East Asian Nations: cumulation allows two or more member countries of an eligible association to contribute jointly to the requirement that at least 35 per cent of the value added in a given product should originate in the beneficiary country. . April 7. On the basis of proof that their production costs warranted selling prices below the trigger prices, Canadian steel exporters were granted a preclearance to sell below trigger prices for almost 90 per cent of their products. April 14. Following receipt of a report on the ITC investigation of the impact of increasing the import quota for peanuts on the price support program for that commodity, the President raised the import quota for 456 peanuts from the 200 million pounds fixed on Decem- ber 4, 1980 to 300 million pounds. April 24. The President l i f ted the res t ra in t, imposed on January 7, 1980, on agricultural sales to the U.S.S.R. May 4. The U.S. Adm in i s t r a t ion, in congressional testimony, reiterated U.S. policy to intervene as neces- sary to counter disorderly exchange ma rke ts for the U.S. dollar but stated that in practice th is policy would entail m in im al exchange ma rket in te rven t ion, pa r t icu la r ly as compared with the level of in terven t ion in the recent past. May 13. The Department of Commerce formally revoked countervailing duties on impor ts of cheese from Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden (other than Jarlsberg cheese) and Emmenthaler and G ruye re cheese f rom Switzerland, following agreements under which these countries undertook not to export below preva i l ing wholesale prices for these products in the United States. (Coun te rva i l ing duties on these imports had been waived pending adm in is tra t ive imp lemen ta t ion of the agree- ment. ) May 13. The Department of Commerce revoked the coun terva i l ing du ty on imports of bu t ter f rom Denmark. June 4. Following a finding that affected U.S. manu- fac tu re rs would otherwise su f fer material in ju ry, the ITC denied a Japanese request to revoke a 1971 an t i- dump ing order against imports of Japanese television sets; as a result, the Department of Commerce will con- t i n ue to monitor such imports for possible dump ing and to levy duties on dumped sets. June 11. The Department of Commerce revoked dump ing duties on imports of potassium chloride from Canada. June 18. The Federal Reserve Board amended Regu- lation D governing reserve requirements and Regula- tion Q governing payment of interest on deposits, so as to permit the establishment of IBFs in the United States beginning December 3, 1981. Under the rules adopted by the Federal Reserve Board, an IBF may accept deposits only f rom fore ign residents ( inc lud ing b a n k s ), f rom other IBFs, or f rom the ins t i tu t ion establishing the IBF. Such f u n ds are exempt f rom reserve require- ments of Regulation D and f rom interest rate l im i ta t ions of Regulation Q. For nonbank fore ign residents, the m in imum m a tu r i ty or notice requ i rement is two busi- ness days, and the m in imum transac t ion amount is US$100,000. Funds raised by the IBF may be used only to extend credit to foreign residents, to other IBFs, and to the en t i ty establishing the IBF. Credit to nonbank foreign residents is to be extended on condi- tion that the funds are used in their operations outside the Un i ted States. Advances f rom an IBF to its estab- lishing en t i ty in the Un i ted States are subject to the reserve requ irement on Eurocurrency liabilities in the same manner as advances to the establishing en t i ty f r om the entity's fore ign offices. A number of ind iv idual states (but not the Federal Gove rnmen t) have granted favorable treatment under the law to IBF operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution In add i t ion, federal legislation was enacted to exempt deposits at IBFs f rom FDIC insu rance coverage and assessments. June 24. In a simplification of the re-export licensing requirements for re-export of products of U.S. or ig in and of U.S. technology to state-trading countries, the Department of Commerce announced that the require- ment of a separate U.S. re-export au thor iza t ion was eliminated in those cases where the same transaction had been exp l ic i t ly approved by the Western coord ina t ing committee known as COCOM (all member countries of the No r th Atlantic Treaty Organization (except Ice land) and Japan are members of COCOM ). June 30. Upon expiration, the quotas on foo twear imported f rom the Republic of Korea and Taiwan were not renewed. (Impor ts from these sources accounted for 50 per cent of all footwear imports by the Un i ted States, down from 61 per cent when the quotas were introduced in 1977.) July 8. The office of the U.S. Trade Representative released a policy statement that summarized U.S. trade policy and was in tended to provide a coherent f rame- work for mak ing ind iv idual policy decisions. Notable elements of the statement were (a) avoidance of import restrictions and subsidies to domestic indus tr ies and allowing market forces to operate freely; (b) strict enforcement of U.S. laws, especially on an t idump ing, countervailing duties, and other measures designed to e l im ina te t rade -d i s to r t ing practices of other coun tr ies; (c) eliminating barriers to trade in services, in i t ia l ly through bilateral and subsequently through mu l t i la te ral negotiations; (d) steps to ensure that more advanced developing countries under take trade obligations com- mensurate with their state of development and that the benefits of d ifferen t ial trade treatment be directed increas- ingly to the poorer developing countries; (e) develop- ment of closer economic links with other North American countries; and (f) seeking, through bilateral agreements, to encourage greater uniformity of non- market economies' trade practices with the principles of the General Agreement on Tar iffs and Trade. July 13. The Federal Reserve Board amended its Regulation T (Credit by Brokers and Dealers) to delete the paragraph permitting the use of foreign currency in a margin account; the measure was intended to clarify that speculative holding of foreign currency and securi- ties was prohibited and that any transactions in foreign currency should be effected in accounts insulated from securities credit transactions. UNITED STATES August 18. Iranian financial assets held by domestic offices of U.S. banks or by other U.S. persons were t rans fe r red as required under the Algiers Accords. September 16. The Department of Commerce, in a p re l im ina ry determination on coun terva i l ing duty, imposed a cash deposit of US$107.05 a metric ton on imports of sodium gluconate f rom EC countries. (The related investigation on coun terva i l ing du ty was sus- pended on November 30, 1981.) September 17. The Depar tment of Commerce imposed a cash deposit of 68.1 per cent on the f.o.b. va lue of imports of truck trailer axles f rom Hunga ry, fo l low ing a p re l im ina ry finding of ma ter ial i n j u ry by the ITC. October 6. The Depar tment of Commerce removed quotas, imposed in December 1973, on U.S. exports of refined petroleum products; exports of refined petroleum produc ts would, however, con t inue to require licenses so as to allow the Department of Commerce to monitor export flows. December 23. The U.S. Adm in i s t r a t ion, in reaction to the political changes in Poland, introduced a series of sanctions against Poland, as fo l lows: (a) suspension of Polish civil aviation privileges in the United States; (b) term ina t ion of the renewal for the Polish Govern- ment of the line of credit insurance f rom the U.S. Export-Import Bank; (c) suspension of the right of Poland's fishing fleet to operate in U.S. waters; and (d) proposals to U.S. allies to fu r th er restrict exports of high technology to Poland. December 29. The U.S. Adm in i s t ra t ion introduced the fo l low ing sanctions against the U.S.S.R., in reaction to the political changes in Poland: (a) suspension of issuance or renewal of export licenses for electronic equ ipmen t, computers, and other high technology items; (b) postponement of negotiations on a new long-term gra in agreement to replace an accord exp i r ing on Sep- tember 30, 1982 (a l though the current one under which the U.S.S.R. may buy up to 23 million tons of grain was le ft in tac t ); (c) suspension of discussions on a new mar i t ime accord and restriction of access to U.S. ports by Soviet ships; (d) suspension of export licenses for an expanded controlled list of oil and gas equipment, while permitting existing licenses to be honored; (e) closure of the Soviet Purchasing Commission, an agency based in New York that accounts for about one th i rd of Soviet nonag r icu l tu ral export orders; and (f) declaration of in tent not to renew exchange agreements in energy, science, and technology, pending a review of all such previous agreements. 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Upper Volta is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buy ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived f rom the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French f r a nc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a com- mission of 0.10 per mill for transfers from countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion and one of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission of 2.50 per mill on t rans fe rs to all countries outside the West A f r ican Mone tary Un ion, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and to the repatriation of export proceeds, Upper Volta's exchange controls do not apply to ( 1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and ( 2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of the Treasury and International Financial A f fa i rs in the Directorate-General of the Treasury and of Public Accounts in the Ministry of Finance. The approval authority in respect of exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward exchange cover, and business travel allocations in excess of CFAF 400,000) has been delegated to the BCEAO and, within limits specified in the exchange control regulations, to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO also is authorized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to com- pile balance of payments statistics. All exchange trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Commerce and Prices in the Ministry of Commerce, Industrial Development, and !The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 458 Mines. Import certificates for liberalized commodities and export attestations are made out by the importer or exporter himself and, when settlement takes place with a country outside the French Franc Area, are visaed by the customs administration. Prescription of Currency Since Upper Volta is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA f ranc s, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gam- b ia, Ghana, Gu inea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Maur i tan ia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are norma l ly settled through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China, the Federal Repub- lic of Germany, and Ghana3 are channeled through special accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usua l ly effected either through correspondent banks in France, or the country concerned, in any of the curren- cies of those countries, or in French f rancs (or in other currencies of the French Franc A rea) through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Ouaga- dougou by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains on Operations Account is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, w i thout prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO banknotes mailed directly by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or proceeding f rom South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may in principle be made freely, although, exceptionally, special regulations may be issued. Imports shipped from and originating in EC countries, with minor exceptions, are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Most imports from other countries are subject to licensing. Imports f rom non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, determined each year by the Directorate-General of Commerce and Prices. Under this program, global 3 A bilateral agreement was negotiated with Ghana in 1970 but is inoperative. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution quotas are established for specified commodities and these require import licenses. Imports from Ghana are sub ject to special regulations. Most imports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 per cent, an import sur- charge of 6 per cent, and a statistical duty of 3 per cent. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange not earlier than eight days before shipment, if a documentary credit is opened, on the due date for payment, if the commodities have already been imported, or at the time of the payment on account, if such a pay- ment has to be made prior to the import. The max imum period for fo rwa rd exchange cover for imports is gen- erally one month and for specified imports three months, without possibility of extension in either instance. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South A f r ica are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- m i t ted free ly; those to other countries are subject to exchange control approval, which for many invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Administration are empowered to make payments to foreign countries, on behalf of resi- dents, up to CFAF 50,000 a t rans fe r. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic t rade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royal- ties are also permitted. Residents traveling for tourism to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may purchase exchange equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren und er ten yea rs) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remain- ing a f ter return to Upper Volta must be surrendered. The basic allocation for travel abroad for business pur- poses is the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonres ident travelers may freely take out foreign bankno tes up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 175,000 or any larger amount, if declared upon entry or acquired by d raw ing on a Foreign Account in Francs, or an Account in Foreign Currency, or by exchange of foreign travelers checks, etc. They may also take out any foreign means UPPER VOLTA of payment other than banknotes acquired in Upper Volta by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency, subject to submission of documentation. Finally, they may take out freely up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bankno tes, French bankno tes, and banknotes of Operations Account countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries of the French Franc Area may be made freely but for statistical purposes certain agri- cu l tural products require a license f rom the Directorate- General of Commerce and Prices. Exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. Exports to all other coun tr ies are permitted freely but some require a license. Certain commodities can be exported in special circumstances only. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regula- tions. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in one month of the date on which the payment fa l ls due ( the due date stipulated in the commercial contract, which must not, in principle, be later than 180 days a f t er arrival of the goods at their de s t ina t ion ). All export transactions relating to foreign countries, inc lud ing countries in the French Franc Area, must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when their va lue exceeds CFAF 500,000, and the exporter mu st sign a fore ign exchange commitment and submit a customs certifica- tion. Most exports are subject to a customs s tamp tax of 6 per cent and a statistical du ty of 3 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amoun ts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those coun t r ies f rom fore ign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings may not be received in or f rom South A f r ica. Resident and nonresident travelers may b r ing in any amount of bankno tes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bankno tes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Resi- dent travelers must declare to the customs any fore ign means of payment in excess of CFAF 5,000 that they br ing in and must surrender these to an authorized bank w i th in eight days a f ter re turn. Capital All capital movements between Upper Volta and South Afr ica are prohibited. Capital movements between Upper Volta and France (as defined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper Volta. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Upper Voltan Government and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, adver- tising, or sale in Upper Volta has already been autho- rized. With the exception of controls over fore ign securi- ties, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above ), Monaco, member countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and insti- tutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Upper Volta require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance,4 and unless specifically exempted by the Minister of Finance, 75 per cent of such investments must be financed from foreign currency borrowings abroad. Foreign direct investments in Upper Volta5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the project. The full or partial liqui- dation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Upper Voltan investments abroad or foreign investments in Upper Volta, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Foreign firms operating in Upper Volta in vital or priority sectors are required to have Upper Voltan participation in their capital of at least 51 per cent and of at least 35 per cent in all other sectors. The sale to residents of Upper Volta of securities of foreign companies operating in Upper Volta requires 4 Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Upper Volta and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Upper Volta. 5 Including those made by companies in Upper Volta that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Volta of foreign companies. 460 prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, who establishes the sale value. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; ( 2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Upper Volta, or by international trad- ing houses previously approved by the Minister of Finance to finance in terna t ional merchan t ing trans- actions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds are immediately surrendered by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was sub- ject to such approval but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the BCEAO, acting on behalf of the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code provides preferential treatment for foreign investment in Upper Volta. Two preferential categories (A and B) are established, in accordance with which preferential treatment with respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified enterprises for periods of up to 20 years. The benefits under Category B are more liberal than those under Category A; they are negotiable between the investor and the Government, and the enterprise accorded such benefits must be of exceptional impor- tance to the development of the country. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Upper Volta. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Directorate of the Treasury and International Financial Affa irs. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated a r t ic les ); and (3) imports and exports of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams by travelers. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1981 June 15. Changes were made in existing regulations as follows: ( a) in a delimitation of the settlement period ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for impo rt paymen ts, it was announced tha t, in the case of goods already imported, foreign exchange must be purchased only on the due date for payment (Circular No. 38 /MF /DGTCP ); (b) in an amendment to Circu- lar No. 16 of February 26, 1970 concerning foreign investment by residents, it was specified that, unless specially exempted by the Minister of Finance, 75 per cent of such investment must be financed f rom foreign currency borrowings abroad (Circular No. 397 MF/ DGTCP ); and (c) the max imum period for fo rwa rd exchange cover for imports was set by the Minister of Finance at generally one mon th and three mon ths for specified imports, without a possibility of extension in either case (Circular No. 40 /MF /DGTCP ). UPPER VOLTA 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position on December 37, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uruguay is the U ruguayan New Peso. Un t il October 1978 Uruguay ma in ta ined a dual exchange market —the commercial market and the financial marke t —but the two markets were un i f ied de facto in October 1978 when the Central Bank announced that it stood ready to buy and sell any amount of exchange at rates to be adjusted in variable amoun ts at frequent intervals. With effect f rom November 28, 1979 the commercial and financial markets were unified de jure. Under the prevailing arrangement, the Central Bank makes an advance mon th ly announcement of the peso- U.S. dollar relationship for the following six months; on this basis, it was envisaged that the peso would be devalued at the rate of about 1.35 per cent a mon th vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar un t il June 1982. Buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, on December 31, 1981 were NU r $l 1.564 and NU r $l 1.594, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on U.S. dollar rates in exchange markets abroad. Export proceeds are no longer required to be sur- rendered to the Central Bank. There are no limits on the amount of foreign exchange that the Central Bank may sell to or buy f rom the Bank of the Republic, commercial banks, and bank ing houses. Uruguay forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom May 2, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through autho- rized banks, bank ing houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Any person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the market. Exchange houses must be authorized by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries w i th which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agree- ments may be made through accounts ma in ta ined with each other by the central banks, within the f ramewo rk of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin Ameri- can Integration Association (LA IA ); these countries are Argen t ina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate arrangements for trade in specified goods with Argentina and Brazil. Settlements with other countries are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration before the goods are shipped. The registrations are generally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. 462 Most imports are subject to import surcharges. The surcharge rates are 0, 10, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 49, 50, 55, 60, 70, and 74 per cent and are payable to the Bank of the Republic at the time of registration, with the exception of the 10 per cent surcharge which is paid to the Central Bank. The Bank of the Republic also collects consular charges. Full or partial exemp- tion f rom these surcharges is granted for imports from member countries of the LAIA, for imports of agri- cu l tural inputs, for imports by the public sector, for imports of capital goods, and for imports under the temporary admission scheme. Most imports are subject to a customs ta r i ff (impuesto aduanero unico, IMADUN I) and a service charge (tasa de movilizacion de bultos—TMB), collected by the Customs Office. Tariff rates vary between 0 per cent and 20 per cent. The service charge is 1 per cent of the c.i.f. import price for most imports. There are exemp- tions to the IMADUNI and the TMB. Most imports are subject to consular charges payable in new pesos and calculated on the f.o.b. value. These charges are 3.5 per cent for private sector imports of petroleum and petroleum products, alcohol, and te trae thyl lead; 0.25 per cent for imports of the same commodities by the state oil, alcohol, and cement enterprise (AN CA P ); 0.5 per cent for other imports by ANCAP; and 4 per cent for all other private sector imports. Import surcharges are calculated either on an officially assessed price (aforo or precio de referenda), which usua l ly is expressed in U.S. dollars a kilogram, or on the actual c.i.f. value, whichever is higher. Payments for Invisibles There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be sold to the banks not later than 36 months a f t er receipt. Tax credit certificates (reintegros) are granted at a rate averaging 13.6 per cent of the f.o.b. value for non- traditional exports. Export of cattle on the hoof requires authorization f rom the M in is try of Agriculture. Exports of specified minerals ( inc lud ing iron, copper, zinc, a lum inum, and nickel) are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements on the pro- ceeds from invisibles, and there are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward and ou tward private capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely, with the exception of certain inward and outward ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution transfers relating to investments registered under the Foreign Investment Law. The amortization or liquida- tion proceeds of foreign capital registered under this law cannot normally be transferred abroad until three years af ter the date on which the investment was approved. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm in Uruguay or abroad. Changes during 1981 January 1. In connection w i th the replacement of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) by the Latin American Integration Association (LA IA ), Uruguay agreed to a renegotiation of the agreement by the end of 1981. January 16. The Ministry of Finance granted tax credit certificates for exports of garments using imported rayon, overalls and robes made of imported textiles, and footwear manu fac tu red with synthetic materials. February 20. The Ministry of Finance granted tax credit certificates for exports of caramel candy and certain articles of clothing. February 25. Decree No. 80/981 postponed the scheduled reduction in tax credits for exports until November 30, 1982. February 25. Decree No. 88/981 granted a tax credit certificate equivalent to NUr$1 .25 a liter of diesel fuel for fishing boats registered in Uruguay un t il April 30, 1981. February 25. Decree No. 85/981 authorized up to 300 tons of peach pulp imports to be exempted f rom all but the minimum import surcharge of 10 per cent. February 25. Decree No. 86/981 established regu- lations and procedures for protection against foreign dumping, inc lud ing rules for determining the occur- rence of dumping and the appropriate countervailing measures. April 7. The Ministry of Finance granted tax cer- tificates for exports of stair railings made of nonrusting steel. April 8. Decree No. 160/981 eliminated the sur- render requirement for export receipts. April 8. Decree No. 165/981 reduced the import levy on television sets in kit fo rm to a surcharge of 10 per cent and that on assembled television sets to 45 per cent (surcharge, 25 per cent; IMADUN I, 15 per cent; consular charges, 4 per cent; and TBM, 1 per cen t). May 26. The regulation requiring the surrender of export proceeds to the Central Bank within a specified time was abolished; exporters were henceforth required to sell their proceeds to the banks not later than 36 months from receipt. June 24. Decree No. 209/981 granted tax credit URUGUAY certificates of 9 per cent of the f.o.b. value for exports of paint brushes and of 11 per cent for exports of certain clothing materials. June 24. Decree No. 279/981 granted tax credit certificates rang ing from 4 per cent to 10 per cent for fish by-products (fish oil, fillet, fish meal, e tc . ). July 1. Decree No. 291/981 liberalized customs duties for imports falling under headings A, B, C, and D of Article 5 of Decree 602/980 (regime of noncom- petitive goods). July 1. Decree No. 292/981 authorized the import of prefabricated school equipment and fixed the tax rate at 10 per cent. July 1. Decree No. 296 /981 lowered the import- related costs (i.e., customs duties, stamp taxes, etc.) for certain items deemed favorable to the national interest. July 8. Decree No. 309/981 lowered the customs duties on a number of specified import items inc lud ing leather goods, door locks, shovels, headlights for automobiles, and low-frequency electrical amplifiers. July 23. Decree No. 313 /981 was introduced, l i f t i ng the ban on exports of cattle on the hoof, wh i le re ta in ing the need for prior au thor iza t ion of the Ministry of Agriculture for such exports. September 8. The Central Bank announced the termination of the practice of exchange rate guarantee; hencefor th, the Central Bank would no longer trade U.S. dollars for fu tu re delivery. September 17. Decree No. 438/981 increased taxes on exports of leather, hides, and skins to the United States. September 21. Resolution No. 2.816/981 granted tax credit certificates for exports, as follows: 7 per cent to 14 per cent for various items used in dental surgery; 14 per cent for electrical outlets; 16 per cent for beeswax; 9 per cent for certain motor vehicles such as pickups, tractors, and buses; 11 per cent for plates used in offset printing machinery; and 11 per cent for tele- phone boxes and certain refrigeration equipment. October 3. Law No. 15.981 reduced import taxes for printing paper to 0.16 per cent. October 9. Tax credit certificates of 7 per cent were authorized for certain nu ts and bolts under tariff schedule 72.52.01.002. October 14. Decrees No. 514/981 and No. 526/981 extended indefinitely the eligibility period for tax credit certificates for diesel fuel used by fishing boats in Uruguay. November 5. A resolution f rom the M in is try of Industry and Energy granted tax credit certificates of 4 per cent for exports of electronic digital computers weighing up to 25 kilograms. November 18. Resolution No. 2.816/981 authorized the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries to export 60,000 tons of wheat grain. November 30. Decree No. 598/981 lifted the ban on 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY credit sales of tickets to destinations abroad by airlines other than Primera Linea Vruguaya de Navegacion Aerea ( P L U N A ); the latter had not been affected by the ban. December 1. Resolution No. 3.024/981 amended Law No. 13.269 of 1964 to extend tax credit certificates to exports of domestic honey. December 16. Decree No. 617/981 granted tax credit certificates not only to exporters, but also to all domestic producers, of recyclable containers. 464 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU1 (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Vanua tu is the Vatu. Since Sep- tember 10, 1981 the va tu has been pegged to the SDR at the rate of VT 106.20 = SDR 1. At present the Central Bank of Vanua tu does not buy or sell foreign exchange. As a trans i t ional arrangemen t, the Banque de 1'Indochine et de Suez, wh ich at present is the main government depository, quotes daily the rates of the vatu against 11 currencies 2 on the basis of their respec- tive SDR values. A spread of up to 0.8 per cent is ma in ta ined by the Banque de I'lndochine et de Suez on the in te rna t ional commercial buy ing and selling rates of those currencies in terms of the SDR for its purchases and sales of va tu. The overall size of the spread in the local ma rket therefore reflects differences between buying and selling rates for foreign currencies in the international marke t, and the Banque de 1'Indo- chine's margin of 0.8 per cent. On December 31, 1981 the buy ing and selling rates for the va tu ( for telegraphic transfers) were VT 90.64 per US$1 and VT 92.60 pe* US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Imports and Import Payments There are no restrictions on import payments. Import duties are levied, mainly on an ad valorem basis, on most imports. Imports not subject to tariff duties include live animals, cereals, flour, milk powder, 1 Vanuatu became a member of the International Monetary Fund on September 28, 1981. 2 Australian dollar, French franc, CFP f ranc, Fiji dollar, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollar, Japanese yen, New Zealand dollar, pound sterling, Singapore dollar, and U.S. dollar. vegetables, fru i ts, pharmaceutical products, perfumes and cosmetics, photographic equipment, jewelry, gold bullion and coins, and audio equipment. With certain exceptions, imports are also subject to a customs service tax of 3 per cent on basic necessities and 12 per cent on certain nonessential items; in addition, there is a customs surcharge of 2 per cent on most imports. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no restrictions on export proceeds. Most exports are subject to export duties, ma in ly on an ad valorem basis; specific duties are levied on some minor exports, including scrap metal and timber. Export duties on copra are on a sliding scale basis. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on invisible transactions. Capital All inward and outward movements of capital are free. Gold There are no restrictions on gold transactions. Changes during 1981 January 1. The customs service tax was raised f rom 2 per cent to 3 per cent for necessities and from 11 per cent to 12 per cent for nonessential items. September 10. The exchange arrangement was changed from a system based on pegging to the French f ranc to a system based on pegging to the SDR. 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Venezuela is the Venezuelan Bolivar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at Bs 4.2925 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar established by the Cen- tral Bank of Venezuela are Bs 4.28 and Bs 4.2925, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks' selling rate to the public is Bs 4.30 per US$1. Exchange trans- actions arising in connection with the discharge of liabilities by former foreign owners or concessionaries of the Venezuelan hydrocarbon and iron industries take place at a selling rate of Bs 4.20 per US$1. The Cen- tral Bank's buying rate in transactions with the public sector (other than the hydrocarbon and iron ore com- panies) and international organizations in which Vene- zuela has a participation or interest is Bs 4.2925 per US$1.1 Buying and selling rates for certain other cur- rencies2 are also officially quoted, based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign banks may only sell foreign exchange that has not been obtained from the Central Bank. Exchange houses are permitted to deal only in banknotes, coin, and travelers checks. Venezuela formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 1, 1976. Administration of Control There is no exchange control mechanism. Import and export licenses, when required, are generally issued by the Ministry of Development or the Ministry of Agri- culture and Livestock, depending on the commodity. The Superintendency of Foreign Investments (SIEX) is charged with supervision over foreign investment in Venezuela, over contracts for the importation of foreign technology and the use of foreign patents and trade- marks, and over borrowing abroad. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. In addi- tion, importation of certain goods is either prohibited 1 The Central Bank does not sell foreign exchange to the public but does sell minor amounts to its staff and certain government officials, for travel expenses, at the rate of Bs 4.30 per US$1. 2 Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, and Swiss francs. 466 or reserved for the Government; these include iron and steel products and certain consumer durables. Certain other commodities also require import licenses. For protective purposes, quantitative restrictions are main- ta ined on some of these items, irrespective of origin, except for Andean Pact countries and LAIA countries. Licenses are valid for all countries except South Africa. Import licenses for some goods are issued on the con- dition that the importer has purchased domestic prod- ucts equal to a prescribed percentage of the quantity to be imported. All other commodities are free from import licensing. Import payments may be made freely. Imports for the government sector are controlled by a commission established by Decree No. 2166 (May 26, 1977) that has the power of prior authorization over all public sector imports. This authorization is needed in order to obtain letters of credit, exemption from import duties and, if necessary, financing. By Decree No. 2664 (Apr il 28, 1978), the Foreign Trade Institute was appointed as the technical coordinator of the commission. In accordance with the timetable issued by the Andean Pact Commission, contained in the Protocol of Lima, Venezuela adopted the minimum external tariff in 1978 (Decree No. 2772 of August 3, 1978). It has also agreed, in principle, to harmonize external tariffs and eliminate all import duties on trade within the Andean subregion by December 31, 1983, in the prescribed annual stages. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely; pri- vate sector purchases of exchange for this purpose are made f rom commercial banks or exchange houses. Transfers of profits and dividends are limited, in prin- ciple, to 20 per cent a year of registered foreign capital, in accordance with Decision No. 103 of the Andean Pact. Resident and nonresident travelers must pay on departure a travel tax of Bs 80 a person a trip; children under seven years, foreign tourists, Venezuelan and for- eign diplomats, and personnel of international organiza- tions are exempted. Travelers may freely export domestic and foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of certain fu rs and hides, scrap metal, and a few other commodities are prohibited. Licenses are required for the export of commodities subject to price controls or deemed to be in short supply domestically; for most commodities such licenses are issued by the Ministry of Development, but those for coffee, cacao, rice, and sugar are granted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. The export of precious stones and gold requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution There are no surrender requirements for export pro- ceeds or other exchange receipts. Exporters of coffee and cacao may receive an export subsidy calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Venezuelan ports from falling below specified minimum amounts regardless of external prices. Eligibility for this subsidy is maintained even if the exchange proceeds are not surrendered. In principle, the benefit of these arrangements may be extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. The promotion of nontraditional exports in Venezuela takes two basic forms: first, the Export Financing Fund, established in September 1973, provides direct credit facilities at interest rates below those charged by other lenders, and it also lends in conjunction with commercial banks; second, the Export Incentive Law (September 1973) assists nontraditional exports through fiscal subsidies in the form of tax credit certificates. Under the Export Incentive Law, negotiable tax credit certificates with a two-year maturity are granted to exporters of nontraditional products (i.e., basically exports other than petroleum, iron ore, coffee, and cacao) that have a domestic value added greater than 30 per cent. These certificates can be held to maturity and used to meet government tax liabilities, or can be traded in the local market at a discount. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely dispos- able. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, with the exception that the Currency Law prohibits the importation for commercial purposes of foreign coin other than gold coin. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers for or by residents are permitted freely. However, brokerage activity in Venezuela in shares or units of foreign invest- ment trusts or mutual funds is prohibited. Foreign capi- tal imported for investment purposes and all foreign credits must be registered with SIEX. Foreign direct investment is governed by Andean Pact regulations. Natural gas and iron mining operations are reserved for the State, and foreign investment in the petroleum sec- tor is prohibited. The Central Bank regulates bank credit to nonresidents and companies whose capital is more than 50 per cent owned by physical persons or companies that are resident or domiciled abroad. The General Banking Law authorizes the Government to regulate bank credit to companies whose capital is more than 40 per cent owned by nonresident or foreign physical persons or companies. This law also regulates the activities of foreign banks operating in Venezuela. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold VENEZUELA coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment pur- poses. The Central Bank does not deal in gold with the public, but gold coin, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated among importers and exchange houses autho- rized by the Central Bank and the public. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coin among themselves and with other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank, as is the import of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela. Other imports and exports of gold require licenses. Imports require licenses from the Ministry of Finance and in certain cases also f rom the Ministry of Development, while exports are licensed by the Ministry of Finance only. The law prescribes a license for all imports and exports of gold by anyone not registered at the Ministry of Development as an industrial user but, in practice, imports and exports by private persons are permitted free of license. Imports of gold coin and of gold bars and ingots weighing more than 12 kilograms are free of customs du ty; all other gold imports are subject to duty at vary ing rates. Changes during 1981 January 13. It was announced that import licenses were no longer required for a number of chemical and textile products and for certain other items (Resolu- tion No. 7, Ministry of Development; Official Gazette No. 32146). February 20. Import duties on windpower generators were suspended until December 31, 1981 (Resolu- tion No. 149, Official Gazette No. 32174). March 13. The reference import prices for 1981 were fixed for automobiles and trucks that could be pro- duced domestically (Resolution No. 184, Ministry of Finance; Official Gazette No. 2753). October 23. Import duties for specified types of meats and f ru i ts were reduced until December 31, 1981 (Decree No. 1249; Official Gazette No. 32338). October 23. Import duties for specified food products f rom countries of the Andean Pact were reduced (Decree No. 1250; Official Gazette No. 32338). November 11. Import duties on spark plugs were increased (Resolution No. 648; Official Gazette No. 32351). November 12. Import duties on imports of certain agricultural products, live plants, and wood logs from the countries of the Andean Pact were modified (Decree No. 1274; Official Gazette No. 32352). November 16. Import duties on a number of chemi- cal products from Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, and Uruguay, were reduced (Decree No. 1273; Official Gazette No. 32354). December 2. Reference import prices for refrigera- tors, gas stoves, washing machines, and driers were issued (Resolution No. 677, Ministry of Finance; Offi- cial Gazette No. 32366). 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM (Position on December 37, 1982) Exchange Arrangement On May 3, 1978 the North Vietnamese dong and the South Vietnamese dong were withdrawn f rom circula- tion and a new currency, the Vietnamese Dong, was introduced, with an official exchange rate of D 2.66358 = SDR 1, equivalent to D 2.17 = US$1. In practice, the exchange rate between the dong and the U.S. dollar has been maintained w i th in relatively narrow margins, while the rate for the SDR has been left to fluctuate. On November 5, 1980 the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was set at D 2.379 = US$1; on that date the official rate for the dong was changed to D 3.06459 = SDR 1. On Ju ly 6, 1981 the official rate for the dong was adjusted to D 10.37883 = SDR 1; and the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was changed to D 9.045 = US$1. Exchange rates of the dong for certain foreign currencies are quoted by the State Bank of Viet Nam on the basis of the cross rates of these currencies vis- a-vis the U.S. dollar. A var iab le prem ium of up to 40 per cent is applied to inward transfers, and receipts f rom tourists in convertible currencies are eligible for a fixed premium of 20 per cent. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the State Bank. Foreign trade is administered by the Ministry of For- eign Trade, which authorizes the foreign trade transac- tions carried out by specialized state import-export corporations or, in certain cases, cooperatives or state enterprises. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade; approval is given for imports in excess of the Plan on the merit of each application. Most foreign exchange transactions are effected by the Bank for Foreign Trade. Most of the foreign exchange transactions related to foreign tech- nical assistance are monitored by the Aid Reception Commission which is c.n agency directly attached to the Cabinet of the Prime Minister. Prescription of Currency Trade transactions with member countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA ), Albania, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea are settled either under the CMEA transferable ruble settlement system (Czechoslovakia, Cuba, Hungary, Mongolia, and U.S.S.R.) or through individual bilateral clearing accounts. Nontrade transactions with countries with which Viet Nam has bilateral payments agreements 1 1 At the end of 1981 Viet Nam had bilateral paymen ts agreemen ts with nine countries that were not members of the IMF —Albania, Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, Ge rman Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Mongolia, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, and U.S.S.R., and with six IMF members —Bangladesh, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mali, People's Republic of Ch ina, Romania, and Syrian Arab Republic. 468 take place at exchange rates specified in these agree- ments. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to ma in ta in nonresident accounts either in fore ign currencies or in dong. Non- residents can freely reconvert into foreign currency and t rans fer abroad unused balances in Vietnamese currency that have been acquired aga inst fo re ign currency. Imports and Exports An import plan and an export p lan are d rawn up annua l ly. In principle, impo rt and export transactions are carried out by about 17 s ta te import-export corpora- tions consisting of 8 na t ional corpora t ions, 5 regional t rad ing companies, and 4 specialized mixed state-private agencies. Some of these corporations have the ir own producing units, while others contract with supplying enterprises. A ll paymen ts for external t rade transac- tions need the au tho r iza t ion of the State Bank and are made through the Bank for Foreign Trade. Export receipts are no rma l ly channeled th rough the Bank for Foreign Trade, and any other receipts f rom foreign trade have to be surrendered to the State Bank. Adm in is t ra t ive procedures were changed in 1980 to allow direct contacts between domestic producers and fore ign buyers (exc lud ing pr iva te businesses) in order to increase domestic know ledge of fore ign market requirements, par t icu lar ly in the area of local process- ing of materials for export or re-export. The contacts are hand led by either the five regional export-import t rad ing firms or the four specialized mixed state-private agencies. An export bonus system has been in opera- t ion since 1980 for the purpose of p rov id ing additional incentives for export produc t ion. By fu l f i l l ing Plan targets, exporters earn a bonus of 2 per cent to 10 per cent of the va lue of planned exports, depend ing on the quality and k ind of produc t; ano ther bonus of 3-5 per cent is earned on exports in excess of targets. State enterprises whose export earn ings exceed Plan targets can freely import requ ired inpu ts and cer ta in consumer goods up to the va lue of such excess. Cooperatives and some pr iva te producers for exports (especially in the Sou th) are allowed to re ta in up to 50 per cent of their export earn ings and up to 70 per cent if local raw ma ter ia ls are used. Expor ters or export producers can keep the ir earnings in fore ign exchange in a noninterest- bear ing and non t ran s fe rab le resident fore ign exchange account, or sell them to the fo re ign exchange f u n d, or use them to import machinery, raw materials, or needed consumer goods upon gu idance f rom the regional or local People's Committees. In the first case, the Bank issues a cer t if ica te, while in the second case, it buys the fore ign exchange at the official rate plus some p rem ium, the size of which depends on the interest the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Bank can earn on lending this foreign exchange to another producer who wan ts to import (beyond his planned foreign exchange a l loca t ion). Additional incen- tives are provided in the form of a right for exporters to use a portion of the net. Deposits in foreign cur- rency are held at the Bank for Foreign Trade in the names of exporters, i.e., the state trading companies, or the regional trad ing companies, or the specialized state-private agencies. These deposits can be used to finance domestic purchases, in which case they are transferred to the name of the seller. Except for gen- erally prohibited items, applications for imports financed through the use of these deposits are approved automatically. State enterprises have three export plans (primary, secondary, and te r t ia ry ). Pr imary export plans are formu la ted by the Government against deliveries of key inpu ts by the Government; secondary plans are set by the Government but w i thout sufficient supply of inputs (e.g., fu e l) by the Governmen t, thus leaving the task of procur ing the needed inpu ts to the enterprises; tertiary plans are set free ly by the producing units, which utilize discarded materials. State enterprises whose export earnings exceed Plan targets can freely import required inputs and certain consumer goods up to the value of such excess. For imports f rom the nonconvertible area, annual credits in foreign exchange are allocated to importers on the basis of actual production capacity; in principle, such credits cannot be carried over from one year to another. For imports f rom the convertible area, although a similar foreign exchange allocation system exists in principle, it is not in use, as decisions to allo- cate foreign exchange are taken by the Prime Min- ister's Cabinet on a case-by-case basis, upon recom- mendations from the State Planning Commission, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and specified Vice-Premiers. For transactions under the local production plans, local authorities are authorized to decide on foreign exchange allocation, provided that the resources are derived f rom their export earnings. Payments for Invisibles Transactions in invisibles, which are not related to the foreign technical assistance carried out through the Aid Reception Commission, require individual autho- rization by the State Bank. Foreign exchange is made available upon authorization of the transaction. All travel abroad needs ind iv idual authorization, f rom the Prime Minister's Cabinet, and at present is limited to official business for which all foreign exchange expenses are covered. Students abroad in nonsocialist countries who had left the coun try before April 1975 may receive foreign exchange allocations as determined by the State Bank for each ind iv idual case. Receipts from trans- actions in invisibles have to be surrendered to the State Bank within seven days. VIET NAM The export and import of Vietnamese currency and of securities denominated in Vietnamese currency needs the special permission of the State Bank. The circula- tion of foreign currency in the domestic market is prohibited; for private inward remittances, beneficiaries are issued special certificates denominated in U.S. dol- lars, which can be used to buy foreign and local con- sumer goods in the special government shops; only legal holders of foreign exchange are authorized to buy fore ign and local consumer goods in these shops. Capital The Foreign Investment Law provides for three forms of foreign investment: (1) investment in the production of goods intended solely for export; (2) jo int ventures between a foreign investor and a Viet- namese state economic organization; and (3) produc- tion-sharing partnerships for the exploitation of na tu ral resources. The share of foreign capital that is permitted ranges f rom 30 per cent to 49 per cent for jo int ven- tures and up to 100 per cent for enterprises specializing in production for export. There are guarantees of repatriation of profits and of proper compensation in the event of nationalization. Gold The State Bank alone has authority to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. Physical persons are perm i t ted to own jewelry and artistic and cu l tu ral objects of gold for domestic and personal use. Changes during 1981 January 1. Viet Nam shifted to the CMEA trans- ferable ruble settlement system, though settlements with CMEA countries other than Cuba, Czechoslo- vak ia, Hungary, Mongolia, and the U.S.S.R. continued to be made through ind iv idual bilateral clearing accounts. January 15. In a mod if ica t ion of the arrangement for fore ign exchange allocation for imports f rom the convertible area, a system was introduced under which decisions to allocate foreign exchange in convertible currencies would be taken directly by the Cabinet of the Prime Minister on a case-by-case basis, upon recom- mendations from the State P lann ing Commission, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and specified Vice-Premiers. May 2. In a reorganization of the foreign trade regime, it was decided to create a number of regional and local organizations, for t rad ing in specified com- modities, under the management of the respective regional and local People's Committees. (The existing state enterprises and organizations would continue to handle exports produced under the State Plan .) The new foreign trading units would be allowed to "earn foreign exchange entitlements," and would be allowed to use such entitlements to pay for imports, provided that such imports have been agreed by the respective 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM regional or local People's Committee. A similar facility was introduced for the export-import state enterprises, provided that the ir respective import programs have been approved by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the State P lann ing Commission. June 22. The circulation of foreign currency in the domestic market was prohibited, and it was decided to introduce a system of U.S. dollar-denominated certifi- cates, which could be used for purchases in special government shops. July 6. The dong was devalued against the SDR from D 3.06459 per SDR 1 to a new official rate of D 10.37883 per SDR 1; the new m idd le rate of the dong against the U.S. dollar was accordingly changed f rom D 2.8 per US$1 to D 9.045 per US$1. The new rates apply to off ic ial external payments and transfers; the prem ium for tourist transac t ions was reduced from 50 per cent to 20 per cent. August 11. The system of U.S. dollar-denominated certificates came into effect. 470 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Western Samoa is the Western Samoa Tala. Since Ju ly 6, 1979 the value of the tala in terms of the New Zealand dollar is determined by reference to a basket of currencies and to other factors that are con- sidered important in determining that external value. Exchange rates for other currencies are established on the basis of their daily rates against the New Zealand dollar. On December 31, 1981 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were WS$ 1.0861 and WS$1.1179, respectively, per US$ 1. There is an exchange levy of 1 per cent on gross sales of foreign exchange, giving rise to spreads in excess of 2 per cent in exchange transactions. Administration of Control Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the Monetary Board, but the daily adm in is t ra t ion of exchange controls and the exchange allocation system is entrusted to the Treasury Department, subject to the control and the instructions of the Minister of Finance and the broad guidelines laid down by the Monetary Board. The Minister of Finance may delegate his au thor i ty to the Finance Secretary, who in tu rn may delegate part of his powers to the Sec- retary of the Monetary Division of the Treasury and to authorized banks. All payments to nonresidents of Western Samoa require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry has delegated to the Bank of Western Samoa and the Pacific Commercial Bank —the only authorized banks —powers to approve certain pay- ments up to any amount, and certain other payments up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescriptions as to the currencies in which payments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Imports and Import Payments The import of a few commodities is prohibited for reasons of security or health. Other commodities may be imported f rom any source. Each licensed commer- cial importer receives a quarterly allocation of foreign exchange, which may be used free ly for the import of any commodity that is not prohibited, except automo- biles and certain other commodities requ ir ing prior approval by the Monetary Board.1 The allocations are made by the Monetary Board and are communicated to the authorized banks which automatically provide the foreign exchange required for import payments upon submission of documen tary evidence. From October 1, 1979, imports purchased under open account arrange- ments are financed f rom current allocations even if payments are not due un t il a later period. Persons who are not licensed importers may import any commodity freely up to WS$100 a person a year but require the prior approval of the M in is try of Finance for imports of higher value. Private buyers of motor vehicles are required to lodge a downpayment of 50 per cent of the retail value with the importing agency. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles, such as overseas con- tractual obligations and insurance, are approved auto- matically by the authorized banks up to ind iv idual l im i ts of WS$5,000 for the public sector, WS$ 10,000 for out- ward remittances, and WS$ 10,000 for letters of credit. Payments in excess of these l im i ts, as well as payments for all other invisibles, require the prior approval of the Monetary Board. Remittances for study abroad arc freely authorized. The M in is t ry of Finance approves, up to any amoun t, the t ran s fer of income derived locally from pensions, rents, interest, and dividends by persons permanen t ly resident overseas. Residents traveling over- seas for business or private purposes are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equivalent to WS$50 a per- son a day, subject to a limit of WS$2,000 a person a year. The Ministry of Finance grants supplementary allocations against evidence of genuine need. Resident travelers may take out foreign banknotes, as part of their foreign currency allowance. Travelers may not take out any domestic currency. Remittances of interest pay- ments overseas are subject to a w i thho ld ing tax of 15 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports require the prior approval of the M in is try of Finance. An export certificate validated by an authorized trading bank is required for exports of all goods in excess of WS$200. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture and the Produce Market- ing Division on grounds of low quality, or by order of the Head of State to alleviate domestic shortages. Exports of copra are controlled by the Copra Board, exports of cocoa by the Cocoa Board, and exports of bananas by the Banana Board. An export levy of 7 per cent is imposed on the f.o.b. value of cocoa and copra exports.2 Export proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks within a reasonable time af ter shipment. Where 1 Flour, sugar, milk products, and spare parts for motor vehicles may be imported freely outside the allocation system. 2 The export levy on cocoa is activated at a price of WS$800 a ton and that on copra at WS$100 a ton. 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA exceptional circumstances exist, the M in is try of Finance may waive this requirement for certain export items. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must on return sell to the banks all foreign currency brought in. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bankno tes, but no domestic banknotes. Capital All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the Ministry of Finance, and capital received by residents must be surrendered. Inward capi- tal remittances do not normally require approval, but borrowing abroad by nonbank residents does require approval. The t rans fer of legacies f rom estates of deceased local residents to beneficiaries permanently residing overseas is approved up to a limit of WS$ 10,000 a year. The authorized banks approve transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, either for special family occasions or by way of maintenance, up to WS$200 a year for each fam i ly group. Foreign investments in speci- fied activities in Western Samoa are encouraged. The Enterprises Incentive Act provides for the granting of certain relief of customs duties, income tax, and business license fees to persons engaged in approved enterprises. Both the repatriation of capital and profit remittances on foreign capital are subject to approval by the Minister of Finance; such approval is normally granted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of gold. Changes during 1981 November 20. The m idpo int exchange rate for the Western Samoa tala was changed f rom WS$0.8942 = NZ$1 to WS$0.9062 = NZ$1, representing a depreci- ation of 1.3 per cent. Rates for the tala against all other currencies were adjusted by a similar percentage. 472 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 2981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Yemen Arab Republic is the Yemen Rial, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, at YRls 4.5 = US$1. (An exchange rate of YRls 5.0 = US$1 is used for customs valuation purposes.) Buying and selling rates for cer- tain other currencies l are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Yemen on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar in ma rke ts abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. The Ministry of Economy and Indu s t ry g ran ts licenses for imports, with the exception of licenses for imports of food and cement, which are gran ted by the Ministry of Com- merce and Supply. Transactions in invisibles are super- vised by the Central Bank for statistical purposes only. All commercial b anks and exchange dealers operate in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements.2 Settlements may be made in any currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel are prohibited. Importation of cer ta in items of used mach inery for purposes of resale is also p roh ib i ted. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Com- pany. All other imports require licenses, which are issued freely. In add i t ion to a license, the importation of certain commodities requires the permission of cer- ta in government agencies. Freight insurance on imports must be purchased locally. Imports that are financed by the importer w i th his own foreign exchange held abroad also require an import license. Importers who hold an import license may obtain the necessary for- eign exchange f rom local banks. A ma rg in deposit of 20 per cent is prescribed against letters of credit opened for all imports. In add i t ion to the applicable customs du ty, impor ts are subject to a defense tax of 5 per cent and a s ta t is t ical tax of 2 per cent. Imports shipped th rough land routes w i thout licenses are subject to a 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Jordan d ina rs, Kuw a i ti dinars, Lebanese pounds, N e th e r l ands guilders, pounds s te r l ing, Saudi A r ab i an r iya ls, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 There is a bilateral paymen ts arrangement w i th Egypt which is inoperative. surcharge of 7 per cent of the c.i.f. value and to an advance payment of the profit tax of 3 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may freely take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical pur- poses only, all exports must be registered on forms that are issued freely by bank s; export licenses are not required. Exporters are not required to surrender their fore ign exchange proceeds, which may be retained in fore ign currency accounts with domestic banks. All exports are subject to a defense tax of 5 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles need not be surrendered and may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward cap i tal transfers, but they are subject to the provisions of the Investment Law adm in is tered by the Ministry of Economy and Indus t ry. Foreign investors in the Yemen A rab Republic are free to t ran s fer abroad any desired proportion of the ir net profits a f ter taxes, or of the ir capital. Certain tax and customs du ty exemptions and concessions are granted for a period of five years to approved projects. Gold Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the Yemen Arab Republic and to import or export gold in any fo rm w i thout an import, export, or exchange license. Changes during 1981 January 1. A regulation was in troduced, requiring all fre ight insurance on imports (based on c. & f. valua- t i o n) to be purchased in the Yemen Arab Republic. April 1. Imports shipped to the Yemen Arab Repub- lic through land routes w i thout licenses were subject to a surcharge of 7 per cent of the c.i.f. value and to an advance payment of the profit tax of 3 per cent. May 1. Export taxes were abolished. 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YD 1 = US$2.89524. Buying and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted by the National Bank of Yemen ( the sole commercial bank and authorized dea le r ), with daily quotations based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. On December 31, 1981 the Na t ional Bank of Yemen's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YD 0.343 and YD 0.350, respectively, per US$1. Rates for all other prescribed currencies are quoted weekly; add i t ional ad jus tmen ts are made when there are ma jor changes in the market rates for these currencies in London and New York the previous day. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The adm in is tra t ion of exchange control is carried out by the General Depar tment for Exchange Control of the Bank of Yemen ( the central b ank) through the Foreign Exchange Committee, wh ich has delegated cer ta in powers to the Director of Exchange Control, a member of that Committee. The M in is try of Trade and Supply issues import and export licenses; those for gold and other precious metals require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Exchange transac t ions must be carr ied out th rough the Na t ional Bank of Yemen. Other dealers in foreign exchange, who may deal only in travelers checks and bankno tes, are classified into ord inary money change r s"and secondary dealers. Ord inary money changers, whose principal business is to sell and purchase foreign exchange for the ir own account or for the account of the Na t ional Bank, are permitted to deal in specified currencies. Secondary dealers, such as hotels, travel bureaus, and retail stores selling tourist goods, are permitted to accept payment in foreign exchange only from their customers, and are required to surrender the receipts in foreign exchange to the Na t ional Bank not later than the fol- lowing business day. While the authorized bank and money changers are allowed to charge a commission for the purchase and sale of foreign exchange as speci- fied by the Committee, secondary dealers may not do so. Except for paymen ts for imports against letters of credit or documents, which may be approved by the authorized dealer, all payments for imports ( inc lud ing those of precious me ta ls) require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Certain public cor- porations are engaged in foreign trade (see section on Imports and Import Payments, be low). 474 Prescription of Currency Exchange transac t ions must be carried out through the authorized dealer in accordance with prescription of currency regu la t ions. All payments to Israel are prohibited. Export proceeds and cer ta in receipts from invisibles must be received in prescribed currenc ies1 and surrendered to the authorized dealer. Payments for imports must be made in prescribed currencies. Nonresident Accounts External Accoun ts in Yemeni d ina rs may be credited with proceeds f rom convertible fo re ign currency trans- ferred f rom abroad, w i th bank interest payable on such accounts, and w i th ba lances f rom other External Accounts. Transfers f rom abroad must be in the fo rm of bank d r a f t s; the accounts may not be credited with paymen ts in the fo rm of fo re ign bankno tes (unless they have been declared to the customs on e n t r y ), or with locally raised or locally earned f u n ds (except in certain specified cases). Ex te rnal Accoun ts may be debited for any paymen ts to residents, for t ran s fe rs to other Exter- nal Accounts, and for paymen ts abroad in any con- ve r t ib le currency. Transfers abroad f rom External Accoun ts in Yemeni d in a rs requ i re the prior approval of the Exchange Con trol Depa r tmen t. The Foreign Exchange Comm i t tee may direct any payment to a non- res ident to a Blocked Accoun t. Except w i th the Com- m i t tee's p r ior approval, Blocked Accounts may be debited on ly for purchases of specified securities. Subject to ce r ta in conditions, Yemeni nationals work- ing abroad may establish nonres ident accounts in for- eign currencies; balances in these accounts earn interest and are convertible in to fore ign currency on demand. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Israel are prohibited. All imports requ i re ind iv idu al licenses. Goods o r ig ina t ing in the Yemen A rab Repub l ic are exempt f rom the licensing requ iremen ts. There is an a n n u al import program. Importers may import ce r ta in goods with their own exchange; such impo r ts requ i re p r ior approval by the M in i s t ry of Trade and Supp ly. Payments for imports on a c. & f. basis aga inst letters of credit or documen- ta ry d r a f ts can be made by authorized dealers without the p r ior approval of the Director of Exchange Con- tro l; most other fo rms of payment for imports require approval. Insurance on imports must be effected locally. The Na t ional Company for Foreign Trade has a monopo ly over impor ts of flour, sugar, wheat, rice, ghee, cook ing oil, tea, and cigarettes. It is also the sole 1 Be lg ian f r a n c s, Canad ian dollars, deutsche m a rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, K uw a i ti d ina r s, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi A rab ian r iya ls, Swedish k rone r, Swiss francs, U.A.E. d i rham s, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN importer of automobiles and other vehicles, all govern- ment requirements, and most requirements of the public hospitals, as well as other specified items. Imports into and exports f rom the free port zones w i th in the port of Aden are free of exchange and trade controls (except in respect of transactions between these zones and the rest of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen) and are exempt f rom customs du t ies, except that the proceeds of exports and re-exports financed originally by the au thor ized bank are subject to the surrender requ i rement (see section on Prescr ip t ion of Currency, above). In all cases, exporters f r om the f ree zones are required to unde r take to repa tr ia te in convertible currencies commissions, profits, and other expenses re la t ing to the processing of goods in the zones and to su r render the currenc ies to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles requ i re pr ior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. Profit rem i t tances abroad by fore ign firms should not norma l ly exceed 50 per cent of the accrued net prof it in any one year. The basic exchange allowance for tou r ism, which resi- dents may take up w i thout app ly ing for exchange con- trol approval, is the equ iva lent of YD 125 a person a tr ip in travelers checks, d r a f t s, and fore ign notes and coin (50 per cent of this amount for children under t e n ) .2 Allowances for medical t rea tment abroad are normally granted up to the equ iva lent of YD 200 a person, with higher amoun ts under exceptional circum- stances. Allowances for other types of travel are granted on the merits of the application. Foreign employees of approved enterprises are allowed to remit abroad between 50 per cent and 100 per cent of their total earnings (net of taxes) according to the terms of the contract; other foreign employees, if receiving their salaries f rom abroad, are allowed to remit 70 per cent of their total earnings. Nonna t iona ls do ing busi- ness in the country can rem it abroad for purposes of fam i ly ma in tenance up to YD 50 a mon th. All insur- ance is nationalized; existing policies have been trans- ferred to the Na t ional Insurance and Re insurance Com- pany, and payments abroad in respect of prem iums are not permitted. Travelers may take out the equivalent of YD 5 in domestic bankno tes and up to the equiva- lent of YD 125 in travelers checks, foreign banknotes, or other foreign means of payment. Nonresidents may take out any foreign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are subject to ind iv idual licensing. All exports to Israel are prohibited. Except for exports to the Yemen Arab Republic specified by the Foreign 2 The equ iva lent of YD 75 for Djibouti, E th iop ia, Kuw a i t, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Yemen A rab Republic, and the Gulf states. Travelers to the Yemen A rab Republic may alternatively take out up to YRls 1,000 in Yemen rials. Exchange Committee, export proceeds must be received in prescribed currencies within six months of shipment and must be sold to authorized dealers upon receipt. Most of the proceeds of exports or re-exports to the Yemen Arab Republic may be surrendered in the na t ional currency of the impor t ing country. Proceeds from Invisibles All claims of residents for services rendered to non- res iden ts must be collected in fore ign currency (or received f rom an Ex ternal Accoun t) and surrendered to the au thor ized dealer. Travelers may freely bring in foreign bankno tes; impo r ts of more than YD 5 in domestic currency are subject to a tax of 50 per cent. Tourists are required to spend in foreign exchange an amount equ iva lent to YD 50 a mon th or US$10 a day if the du ra t ion of the ir stay is less than one month. Capital V ir tua l ly all cap i tal paymen ts and transac t ions requ ire pr ior approva l. Expa tr ia tes are no rma l ly per- m i t ted upon depa r tu re to rem it the ir en t i re sav ings to the ir coun t ry of pe rmanent residence. Foreign invest- ments that have been approved under the Law for the Organ iza t ion of Indus t ry and the Promo t ion of Indus- t r i al Investment may be g ran ted exemptions f rom impo rt du ty and var ious other tax fac i l i t ies. Beg inn ing five years a f t er p roduc t ion has started, the net va lue of the enterprise (ca lcu la ted on the basis of actual or book value, or surrender or l iqu ida t ion value, which- ever is less) is t ran s fe rab le at the ra te of 25 per cent a year; if, however, an expatriate na t ional or a foreign investor encounters opera t ional d i f f icu l t ies, his capital may be re t rans fe r red six mon ths a f t er en try. Interest due on any loans obtained abroad a f t er the firm con- cerned has been established may also be rem i t ted, pro- vided that all du t ies, taxes, and other government dues have been paid. Gold Only the mone tary au thor i t ies and au thor ized dealers may purchase, hold, or sell gold bu l l ion. Licensed goldsmiths may purchase, hold, and sell other unworked gold and gold coin and ornamen ts. Other residents may hold gold in the fo rm of o rnamen ts or num isma t ic coins. Exports and imports of gold by registered gold- sm i ths requ ire licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Trade and Supply (General Depar tment for Foreign T rade ); in certain cases, the consent of the Foreign Exchange Comm i t tee must also be obtained. Depar t ing residents may take out gold ornaments not exceeding 10 tolas 3 in weight, subject to registration in their passports. A r r iv ing fema le na t iona ls may b r ing in gold o rnamen ts up to 25 tolas du ty free and up to an add i t ion al 25 tolas a f t er pay ing import duty at a rate of 30 per cent. How- ever, a r r iv ing male na t iona ls may br ing in gold orna- ments up to 40 tolas a f t er paying import du ty. 3 One tola is equal to 180 g ra ins troy or 0.4114 ounce. 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN Changes during 1981 August 1. Nonnationals employed in the public sector in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen were allowed to remit their entire savings on departure at the end of their contract; formerly they were allowed to remit only up to YD 500 on departure and the remainder at the rate of YD 100 a month thereafter. August 1. The limit on the amount that nonnationals doing business in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen were allowed to remit abroad for fam i ly main- tenance was increased from YD 25 to YD 50 a month. August 1. For cars imported with his own exchange earned abroad, and for which the importer is unable to pay the import duty, authorization was granted for re-export without an undertaking to surrender the export proceeds; formerly such an undertaking was required. 476 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Yugoslavia is the Yugoslav Dinar. The authorities do not ma in ta in the exchange rate of the d inar w i th in announced margins, and therefore, all transactions, with the exception of those effected under the procedures set fo r th for certain countries w i th which Yugoslavia has b i la teral paymen ts agree- ments (see section on Prescription of Currency, b e low ), take place at a f luc tua t ing exchange rate. However, the authorities intervene in the fo re ign exchange market, when necessary, to ensure orderly conditions and to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the fore ign exchange market in Belgrade on December 31, 1981 were Din 41.7598 and Din 41.8852, respectively, per US$1. Rates are also quoted for cer ta in other cur- rencies.1 Administration of Control The Federal Assembly formu la tes the decision on foreign exchange policy of the coun try for each year; the projections of the balance of paymen ts and the fore ign exchange balance of Yugoslavia are component par ts of this decision. The projections contain the mu tua l ly adjusted p lans of the balance of payments and the fore ign exchange balances of the republics and autonomous provinces, as well as the foreign exchange expenditures and revenues of the Federation. A self- managing community of interest for fore ign economic re la t ions has been set up in each republic and autono- mous province. On the basis of un i fo rm criteria pre- scribed by the Yugoslav Commun i ty of Interest for Foreign Economic Relations, members of republican and provincial commun i t ies conclude agreements and prescribe policies to be followed to achieve the agreed volume of exports of goods and services, as well as the procedure for borrowing and lending abroad, under in ternal self-management agreements. The Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provisions in respect of fore ign trade and exchange operations. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade makes decisions governing commercial transac t ions and issues import and export licenses when required. It is also charged w i th securing balanced trade with pay- ments agreement countries. The Federal Secretariat for Finance, the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and the Na t ional Banks of the republics and autonomous prov- inces administer the exchange controls. The National Bank prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries. Foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through an authorized bank, of which there are two types: ( 1) Fully authorized banks, which are perm i t ted to engage in transactions w i th foreign countries and may engage in all fore ign exchange transactions in Yugoslavia and abroad, as well as in fore ign credit operations ( inc lud ing the g ran t ing of gua ran tee s ). (2) Banks which are authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep foreign exchange accounts abroad nor engage in fore ign credit operations, except through banks authorized to engage in fo re ign exchange t rans- actions abroad. Authorized exchange offices may only purchase foreign bankno tes and travelers checks; this s ta tus is open to all commercial and savings banks. In add i t ion, hotels and tourist agencies, if specifically authorized, may also purchase fo re ign bankno tes and travelers checks. Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic organizations (bo th produc ing and t rad ing under tak ings) registered for this purpose. Economic organizations that are not registered to conduct fo re ign trade channel the ir imports and exports through eco- nomic organizations that are authorized to engage in foreign trade transactions. Resident physical persons may not engage in foreign trade. Prescription of Currency Payments to and f rom countries w i th which Yugo- slavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies, and according to the procedures, set fo r th in those agreements. If no agreement exists, settlement is made in a convertible cu r rency. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requ ir ing settlements in U.S. dollars with A lban ia, Czechoslovakia, and the German Democratic Republic. Nonresident Accounts Foreign ju r id ical and physical persons may m a in t a in accounts denominated in fo re ign exchange and in d inars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules: for- eigners resident outside Yugoslavia may free ly open accounts in convertible currencies or in d inars with fu l ly authorized banks in Yugoslavia; fore ign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may freely open accounts expressed in fore ign currencies or dinars, with any authorized bank. Foreign exchange accounts in convertible currencies of nonresident jur id ical and physical persons are kept in the currency deposited.2 Balances held in these 1 Aus t ra l ian dollars, Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian do l lars, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French f rancs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss f rancs. 2 Accounts may be denominated in any of the following currencies: Au s t r i an schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA accounts may be used for all paymen ts in Yugoslavia, in dinars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any convertible currency. Transfers f r om these accounts are free if made in the currency in which the account is kept; outward t rans fe rs in other convertible currencies are subject to the bank holding the account being pre- pared to make the necessary conversion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be opened only for certain fore ign ju r id ical and physical persons resident in Yugoslavia. Balances may be used only for d inar paymen ts in Yugo- slavia or for re t rans fer to the b i la te ral coun try to which the account is related. Foreign ju r id ical and physical persons may free ly open nonresident accounts in convertible d inars w i th authorized banks. Such accounts can be credited free ly with amoun ts whose t r an s f er in convertible currency has been authorized, and they may be used for pay- ments for goods and services and other payments in Yugoslavia and for t ran s fe rs abroad or to other fore ign persons. Nonresident ju r id ical and physical persons may also open other dinar accounts w i th authorized banks. These other accounts may be credited with d ina rs acquired in Yugoslavia in accordance w i th the existing regulations. Balances are, in principle, non t rans fe rab le and may be spent in Yugoslovia only for noncommercial paymen ts by the account holder or by members of his immediate family, or by the owner and staff of fore ign firms if the account holder is a fore ign ju r id i c al person. If balances on these accounts derive from copyright royalties, f rom work performed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, f rom pen- sions, disability allowances, compensations to persons decorated w i th the Order of the Na t ional Hero, f u n ds of persons who have emigrated f rom Yugoslavia, or f rom alimony payments, t rans fe rs may be effected und er specified conditions. Resident nationals may ma in ta in foreign exchange accounts or foreign exchange savings deposits in con- ver t ib le currencies with any authorized bank. These accounts are kept in the fo re ign currency deposited and bear interest, which is paid in the same foreign currency. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained indef in i te ly and may be drawn upon freely for paymen ts in Yugo- slavia and abroad on behalf of the account holder or members of his immediate fam i ly; balances are not transferab le to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles, be low ). Yugoslav na t iona ls residing abroad and former emigrants re tu rn ing to Yugoslavia may also open fore ign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia that may be used freely for paymen ts in Yugoslavia or abroad. add i t ion to economic organizations that specialize in fore ign trade. For import of ce r ta in basic foods tu f fs, such as hard wheat, rice, bu t ter, and special kinds of edible oil, quotas are fixed by the Federal Executive Council; importation of such goods is carried out either by par t icu lar economic organ iza t ions or through the Federal Office for Food Reserves, on the basis of public bids. For most commodities, import licenses are not requ ired. All commodities inc luded in the fo re ign trade nomenc la tu re are classified in three categories: LB—-lib- eralized goods; RK and DK —goods subject to quan t i ty or va lue quotas; D —imports subject to ad hoc licensing. Goods in the LB category are ma in ly raw materials, food s tu f f s, and spare par ts, but also some consumer goods. Protective equipment for workers and all other goods not specifically included in the RK, DK, or D lists are also liberalized and f ree f rom any quan t i ta t ive res tr ic t ion. Foreign exchange for paymen ts for imports f rom the convertible currency area is made available on the basis of se lf-management agreements concluded w i th in the se lf-management commun i t ies of interest in any convertible currency appropriate to the exporting coun try. Paymen ts for impor ts f rom payments agree- ment countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant agreement and may be restricted accord- ing to the ava i lab i l i ty of f u n ds in the appropriate clearing account. The only imports under commod i ty quotas (RK list or DK l i s t) are raw ma ter ia ls, m anu f a c tu r ing com- ponents, equipment, and consumer goods, but limits in d inar values are established for certain other goods. The quotas are established either in quan t i t ies (RK) or in d inars (DK ). The allocation among importers of goods subject to quota is decided by agreement among the economic organizations.3 Additional quotas may be allocated du r ing the year if the enterprise to which the quota is allocated unde r takes to increase exports. Goods in list D comprise gunpowder, firearms and ammun i t ion, petroleum, certain types of lubricants, drugs, and na tu ral gas. Import licenses are required only for list D commodities. For certain goods there is an add i t ional requirement of a special import license ("accordance") issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. At the end of 1981 goods subject to this requirement comprised 71 LB items, 13 RK items, and 2 DK items. The items include a wide range of tropical foods tu f fs and fru i ts, raw ma ter ia ls, cocoa bu t te r, fa ts and oils, raw cotton, textiles, and t in; the Secretariat may also prescribe direct importation f rom the coun try of origin. Imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected only by economic organizations registered as par t ic ipa t ing in fore ign trade. Most ma jor industrial producers are so registered, in 3 In principle, any such allocation among importers must be agreed on among economic organizations w i th in the Chamber of Economy accord ing to pro jec t ions of ma ter ial balances for each commodity, wh ich are based on the projected growth rates of production. If the impor ters are unable to agree among themselves or if the allocation decided upon does not correspond to established principles, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade is authorized to decide on the distribution. 478 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Private persons who are Yugoslav na t iona ls and hold foreign exchange accoun ts w i th Yugoslav banks may use these funds freely to import goods for the ir own use or for the use of close relatives residing w i th them and for purchases of ce r ta in goods in Yugoslavia w i th d ina rs ob ta ined by se l l ing fo re ign exchange held in these accounts. Self-employed Yugoslav na t iona ls may f ree ly import mach ine ry for small f a rms or equ ipment for h and i c r a ft p roduc t ion, up to Din 120,000 a ship- men t, and m a n u f a c t u r i ng componen ts, up to D in 40,000 a sh ipmen t. As an exception to the fo rego ing, owne rs of fo re ign exchange accounts and Yugoslav n a t ion a ls w o r k i ng abroad may impo rt au tomob i les, trucks, mo tor- cycles, mopeds, and bicycles, toge ther w i th moun ted mo tors and essential spare pa r ts for these vehicles, as well as ce r ta in acous t ic equ ipm ent exceed ing Din 6,000 in value, prov ided that these are impo r t ed th rough a registered en te rp r ise and p aym ent is made th rough a fo re ign exchange account he ld at a Yugoslav bank. Yugoslav and fo r e ign na t iona ls are exempt f rom th is prescribed m a n n er of payment and me thod of impo r ta- t ion, however, u n d er the f o l l ow i ng c i rcum s tance s: when they r e t u rn for pe rmanent residence in Yugos lav ia, pro- vided that they have spent at least five years abroad; when a vehicle is inhe r i ted; when a mo tor veh ic le is purchased out of an insu rance i n d em n i ty received for a motor veh ic le that has been destroyed and had o r ig in a l ly been paid for in fo re ign cu r rency; and if they have spent at least two years abroad con t inuou s ly and have owned a vehicle for at least two years. A 1 per cent tax for customs evidence and a 6 per cent tax -equa l iza t ion charge are payab le on all com- modities not exempt f rom cus toms du ty. Many agricul- tu r al commodities are subject to va r iab le impo rt levies. R e tu rn ing res ident travelers may b r ing in du ty - f ree impor ts up to Din 200 a person. There are special f a c i l i t i es for f u ll or p a r t i al exemption for payment of customs du t ies on ce r ta in impo r ts by Yugoslav workers r e t u r n i ng f rom abroad. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for inv is ib les re la ted to merchandise t rans- actions, inc lud ing t ranspo r ta t ion, are f u l ly liberalized. Foreign exchange to cover expenses abroad for export promo t ion is made f ree ly ava i lab le to expor ters. Pay- men ts for other inv is ib les may be made f r om the rem i t- ter's own fo re ign exchange f u n ds or f rom the fo re ign exchange accounts of o rgan iza t ions of associated labor on the basis of se l f -management agreements w i th in the se l f -management commun i t ies of in terest of the repub- lics and au tonomous provinces. Purchases of services abroad, as well as spare par ts, fue l, etc., by Yugoslav enterprises involved in in te rna t ional f r e i g ht and pas- senger t ranspo r ta t ion, are l ibera l ized. There is no exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. However, Yugoslav citizens are allowed to use balances f rom the ir fore ign exchange accounts for YUGOSLAVIA tour ist travel abroad. Under specified conditions, the fo l low ing t r an s f e rs may be effected ab road: payments for imp rov ing labor relationships, pensions, disability allowances, and payments to recipients of an Order of the Na t ional Hero, a l imony paymen ts, paymen ts for cour t-ordered compensations or indemn i t ie s, the prof i ts of fo re ign contractors p e r fo rm ing capital construction work in Yugoslavia, 10 per cent of the proceeds f rom cu l tu ra l, en te r ta inmen t, sport, and other performances given abroad by groups or ind iv idua ls, and t r an s f e rs pe rm i t ted by the Federal Secretariat for F inance. In add i t ion, copyright royalties are t ran s fe rab le abroad if such t rans fe rs are based on reciprocity and if fo re ign exchange resources have been prov ided. Paymen ts in respect of royalties and a l imony gran ted by court order are f u l ly t r an s f e r ab l e, but if a payment is to be made to a coun t ry w i th which Yugoslavia m a i n t a i ns a b i la teral paymen ts a r r ang em en t, then such payment may be made on ly if the agreement in ques t ion provides for reci- proc i ty. Au tho r ized b anks may sell fo r e ign cu r rency for rem i t tances for court and o ther fees abroad and for specified personal expenses on the basis of approval f rom the appropr ia te au thor i t ies in the republics and au tonomous provinces. Not more than Din 1,500 in domes t ic currency, in denom ina t ions of Din 100 or less, may be taken out by trave lers on the first t r ip du r ing the yea r, and no amount can be taken out on subsequent tr ips d u r i ng the same year.4 Foreign travelers may b r ing in and take out any amount in fo re ign exchange w i th- out dec lar ing it. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange earned th rough exports of goods and services and other fo rms of economic cooperation w i th fo re ign coun tr ies, as well as th rough purchases on the fore ign exchange ma rke t, is considered to belong to the p a r t i cu l ar o rgan iza t ions of associated labor that have taken pa rt in its rea l iza t ion .5 An organ iza t ion of associated labor may keep such fore ign exchange in a fo re ign exchange account, may sell it to an au thor ized bank, or may use it for its own paymen ts abroad in accordance w i th the ex i s t ing regu la t ions. In principle, exports are f r ee of control. Certain raw ma ter ia ls that are in short supp ly in the domestic mar- ket ( i n c l u d i ng pe t ro leum and pe tro leum derivatives, ce r ta in livestock, vegetable o i ls) and certain other ma te r ia ls such as gunpowde r, weapons, and narco t ic drugs requ i re licenses. Expor ts to coun tr ies w i th which Yugoslavia has b i la te ral paymen ts agreements are sub- ject to approval ("accordance") by the Federal Secre- t a r i at for Foreign Trade. Such approval may be given 4 E f fec t ive J a n u a ry 1, 1982 the amount of Yugoslav bankno tes which may be t ak en out or b rought in du r ing the year was limited to Din 1,500 a person on the first t r ip and Din 200 a person on each subsequent t r ip. 5 On May 12, 1982 the Yugos lav au tho r i t ies in t roduced regu la t ions to be in e f fect for one year r e q u i r i ng that o rgan iza t ions of associated labor s u r r e n d er 15.9 per cent of t h e ir conve r t ib le cu r r en cy receipts to the repub l ican and provincial na t ional banks for the purpose of financing essential imports and repayments of fo re ign debt. 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA for a group of commodities or for all commodities to be exported w i th in a certain period (global app rova l ). Permission to export to bilateral countries may be made conditional on an under tak ing to import from such countries or to export to other countries. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 90 days6 from the date of exportation, unless specific exemption is granted. The surrender of these proceeds is not required. The fu ll export proceeds may be credited to foreign exchange sight-deposit accounts, which the exporter ma in ta ins with an authorized bank of his choice; separate accounts must be established for each currency. Exchange on these accounts may be used in accordance with self-management agree- ments w i th in the ind iv idual republics and autonomous provinces. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be repatriated w i th in 90 days f rom the date on which the claim is payable. The performance of construction and engineering ser- vices is subject to approval ("accordance") by the Fed- eral Committee for Energy and Industry. Exchange proceeds may be used for payments abroad connected with the activities of the economic organization con- cerned, including payments for purchases of equ ipment and other material for capital construction work abroad. The exchange proceeds are t rans fe rab le to Yugoslavia and belong to the economic organizations that have earned them, or they can be sold to authorized banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. Residents who, wh i le employed abroad, deposited their savings in foreign savings banks and obtained a "bilingual savings book," issued under specific arrange- ments between Yugoslavia and foreign banks, may with- draw their balances in the fo rm of fore ign exchange when in Yugoslavia. Residents may hold interest-bear- ing fore ign currency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited with the fu ll amount of a person's savings in foreign exchange. These accounts may be used freely for the personal needs of the account holder and of his immediate fam i ly; they are not trans- ferab le to other persons or accounts and may be re ta ined indefinitely. Sales of domestically manu fac tu red goods (except foods tuffs, cosmetics, liquor, and gaso l ine) are exempt f rom turnover taxes when purchased with d inars obtained by sales of foreign currency held in these accounts; sales of such goods to foreigners are also eligible for the tax exemptions if the settlement is made in d inars obtained f rom the sale of foreign exchange to an authorized bank. In both cases, a nonnegotiable certificate of sale of fore ign currency issued by an authorized bank is required to obtain the turnover tax exemptions. 6 On May 12, 1982 the Yugoslav authorities in t roduced a regulation that reduced the max imum repatriation period f rom 90 days to 60 days. 480 Not more than Din 1,500 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denom ina t ions of Din 100 or less, may be brought in by travelers on the first tr ip du r ing the year, and no amount may be brought in on subsequent trips du r ing the same year (see footnote 4 ). Capital The organizations of associated labor and other social legal persons may borrow abroad in accordance w i th se lf-management agreemen ts concluded w i th in the commun i t ies of interest for fore ign economic relations of the repub l ics and au tonomous provinces. Foreigners may invest in Yugoslav economic organi- zations but only through j o i nt ven tu res; apart f rom exceptional cases, such foreign inve s tment is limited to 49 per cent of the organ iza t ion's capital. Profit t rans fe rs are permitted up to one half of the joint ven ture's foreign currency earn ings f rom exports of goods and services. Realized prof i ts f rom investments in organizations of associated labor in underdeveloped repub l ics and the Province of Kosovo may be repa- triated in fu l l. If the law gove rn ing jo int ventures were to be amended, the legal prov is ions in force on the da te of registration of a j o i nt v en tu re would con- t i n ue to be applied du r ing the en t i re l i fe of the invest- ment contract, if the foreign investor so desires, or at the latter's option, any more favorab le provisions of the amended legislation could be app l ied. Foreign firms are pe rm i t ted to establish representational offices in Yugoslavia. The inves tment income earned abroad by Yugoslav economic organizations must be repatriated w i th in 90 days. Residents are obliged to repatriate fore ign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Economic organizations wishing to participate in fore ign enterprises may be allowed to export the neces- sary capital under special conditions set by federal law; such capital should be registered w i th the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. Gold In 1968 the Na t ional Bank issued ce r ta in commemo- rative gold coins, which are legal tender. Foreign tra- velers are freely perm i t ted to impo rt and export these coins, subject to customs declaration, and for exports, subject to proof that they have been purchased in Yugoslavia. Residents who are p r iva te persons may hold gold coin in Yugoslavia, which may be sold to any au thor ized bank, and they may freely hold, purchase, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold in accordance with the existing regulations on trade in goods and on control of articles made f rom precious metals. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as traders in gold may import gold jewelry under the DK import regime; they may freely export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Authorized banks ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution may free ly export gold coin. Producers may export newly mined gold or sell it to specified users at home at the average price on the in te rna t ional gold market. Domestic sales of newly mined gold by the producers may be made at a price which equals the average quo ta t ion in free gold ma rke ts abroad. Domestic eco- nomic organizations us ing gold for the ir normal activi- ties may purchase gold from domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each such organization individually. Changes during 1981 April 30. Changes were announced in the export and import system as follows: (a) a total of 1,012 com- modities were shifted to the LB category (277 from the RK list, 724 from the DK list, and 11 f rom the D l i s t ); (b) 19 commodities were sh i f ted f rom the LB category to the restricted lists (12 commod i t ies to the RK list and 7 to the D l i s t ); (c) 24 commodities were sh i f ted f rom the DK to the RK list ( the commodities for which importation was liberalized included agricultural prod- ucts, raw materials, and consumer goods); and (d) on the export side, 26 commodities were made subject to licensing, while license requirements were removed on 41 commodities (Official Gazette No. 27 ). July 4. The export or import of Yugoslav bankno tes YUGOSLAVIA was limited to Din 1,500 a person for one t r ip dur ing the year, with no allowances for subsequent tr ips du r ing the same year. August 7. Sales of domestically manu fac tu red goods (except foods tu f fs, cosmetics, liquor, and gasoline) were exempted f rom turnover taxes when purchased w i th d ina rs obtained by sales of fore ign currency held in a fo re ign exchange account or fore ign exchange savings deposit; sales of such goods to foreigners were also eligible for the tax exemptions if the settlement was made in dinars obtained f rom the sale of foreign currency to an authorized bank. In both cases a nonnegotiable certificate of sale of fore ign exchange issued by an authorized bank was required to obtain the turnover tax exemptions. August 12. The broken cross rates in the Yugoslav exchange arrangement were e l im ina ted. December 5. The limit on du ty - f ree imports by re tu rn ing resident travelers was reduced f rom Din 1,500 a person to Din 200 a person. December 25. The limits on the export or import of Yugoslav banknotes du r ing the year were established at Din 1,500 a person for the first t r ip and Din 200 a person for each subsequent trip, effective January 1, 1982. 481 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position on December 31,1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zaire is the Zaire, which is pegged to the SDR; effective June 19, 1981 the external value of the zaire was fixed at Z 1 = SDR 0.1575. Middle rates for the 20 currencies in which authorized banks are permitted to deal1 are fixed daily by the Bank of Zai're (the central b a n k) on the basis of the SDR rate. On December 31, 1981 the rate for the U.S. dollar was Z 5.45483 per US$1. Forward exchange transac- tions are prohibited. In add i t ion to a commission charge, purchases and sales of foreign exchange are subject to an exchange control fee. Administration of Control The Bank of Zaire has regulatory au thor i ty over all foreign trade and paymen ts; this includes discretionary power to authorize residents to hold foreign exchange and to use it to pay for certain goods and services. The Public Debt Management Office (OGEDE P ), operating under the aegis of the Department of Finance, manages the external public and publicly guaranteed debt, is responsible for its servicing, and advises the Executive Council on external debt policy, inc lud ing guaran tees extended by the Gove rnment on loans contracted by public, semipublic, and private enterprises. In prin- ciple, no new external borrow ing may be contracted or guaranteed by the Government w i thout the prior advice of OGEDEP and the Bank of Zai're. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents must be received in the listed convertible currencies quoted by the Bank of Zaire (see footnote 1 ). Special authorization for the acceptance of another currency may be given only in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Except for working balances, all currencies received must be converted into a convert- ible currency. Payments to nonres iden ts must be made in one of the listed convertible currencies. However, certain settlements with Angola, Bu rund i, and Rwanda are made through special accounts established under arrangements concluded by the Bank of Zai're with the central banks of the countries concerned. Balances on these special accounts are settled on a quarterly basis in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in Zaires, Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, and Convertible Accounts in Zaires. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Bu rundi francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 482 Nonresident Accounts in Zaires may generally be debited only with the approval of the Bank of Zai're. Such accounts, when opened by diplomatic missions and in te rna t ional organ iza t ions established in Zai're, may be debited freely but may be credited only w i th the proceeds of sales of fore ign cu r rency and with paymen ts made by the Governmen t. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited free ly; they may be debited free ly for t rans fe rs to accounts abroad or to Convertible Accounts in Zaires ma in ta ined by residents or to Nonres ident For- eign Currency Accounts, for sales of fore ign currency, and for sales of fore ign currency against domestic currency. Nonres ident Zairian na t iona ls requ i re special authorization from the Bank of Zaire to open these accounts with authorized banks; nonresident foreigners may open them freely. Convertible Accoun ts in Zaires may be credited with amoun ts converted f rom fo re ign cu r rency at the official rate, transfers f rom another Convertible Account in Zaires, or authorized paymen ts by residents to non- res iden ts; they may be debited free ly for conversion in to fo re ign currency or for any paymen ts in domestic currency. Such accounts may be held by both residents and nonres iden ts but must not be credited with pay- men ts for exports of goods or services except for listed items exported to Bu rundi and Rwanda and exchange purchases f rom tour is ts from these countries. Imports and Import Payments Imports are subject to a foreign exchange allocation system (coefficients de preaffectation). The system limits each bank's f in an c ing of imports of specified consumer goods and Pha rmaceu t ica ls to 30 per cent of its retained proceeds f rom exports. The other coefficients are 45 per cent for raw materials, in te rmed ia te goods, chemical products, spare parts, and u t i l i ty vehicles, and 25 per cent for inv is ib les. In the case of invisible receipts, the commercial banks are required either to surrender them to the Bank of Zai're or use them to increase any of the coefficients mentioned above or to f inance impor ts of specified commodities or under specified terms. The importation of a number of goods is prohibited on grounds of public policy; these are mainly arms, ammun i t ion, and narcotics. The importation of specified luxu ry items ( inc lud ing high-powered automobiles, cer- ta in types of jewelry, and f u r n i t u r e) is proh ib i ted for reasons of economic policy. For the import of most commodities other than p r io r i ty items (ma in ly food- s tu f f s, pharmaceuticals, raw ma ter ia ls, and indus t r ial spare p a r t s ), import licenses must be submitted to the Bank of Zaire for prior approval. The importation of certain textiles and clothing is controlled for protective ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution reasons, while import licenses for other items produced domestically, but not in sufficient quantities, are only issued on the basis of an authorization from the Department of National Economy. Settlements for imports may be made through confirmed irrevocable letters of credit. For most goods subject to license, the importer must obtain a credit of at least 90 days; payments upon shipment are authorized provided prior approval is requested f rom the Bank of Zai're and a 6 per cent rebate is obtained. Imports not subject to import licenses approved by the Bank of Zaire are sub- ject to import declarations, which do not require the prior approval of the Bank. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of all imports must be verified and found acceptable by the foreign correspondents of the Office Zairois de Controle (O zA c ). Applications for import licenses are submitted through authorized banks, which, a f ter certification, forward them to the Bank of Zaire for approval. The import license application is then re turned to the autho- rized bank for va l ida t ion. Impo rt licenses validated by the authorized banks rema in valid for customs clearance for six months, and the validity may be extended fu r ther if shipment has begun. Extension of the validity period of a license requires authorization from the Bank of Zaire. Nonprohibited imports financed without recourse to the foreign exchange resources of the banking system (i.e., sans achat de devise, or SAD) are subject to import declaration requirements and to the control procedures of OZAC. Shipment must be effected within nine months from issuance of the import declaration. Imports effected under bilateral aid arrangements between Zaire and certain countries (Belgium, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the United States) are governed by separate provisions. Certain import payments have been delayed. These arrears have largely been centralized at the Bank of Zaire, which is the process of settling them in accor- dance with policy priorities and due dates. Arrears on payments due to official creditors and to some com- mercial banks have been subject of consolidation agreements. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are limited to 25 per cent of each bank's retained merchandise export earning; in specified cases, such payments may also be effected with receipts from invisibles. All payments are subject to authorization by the Bank of Zaire. The Bank of Zai're will not authorize the payment in foreign exchange of commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents. Imports and exports between Zaire and ports in Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Nether- lands, and the Scandinavian countries must be shipped in vessels participating in the conference of the Asso- ciated Central West Africa Lines. Banks are not authorized to pay in foreign currency the maritime ZAIRE fre ight on shipments that do not meet these regulations, unless an immed ia te discount is obtained on the invoice; in the case of exports, banks are authorized to validate export declarations for products included in an official m in imum price list. For other items, export declarations are subject to prior approval by the Bank of Zaire. Banks may effect ma r i t ime fre ight paymen ts in foreign currency at the time of shipment only for imports payable upon shipment; they may also effect mar i t ime fre ight payments in foreign currency at the time of shipment for imports payable upon arrival, provided that the payment is made direct to the carrier. Maritime fre ight charges may be paid in Zai're in local currency when goods are transported entirely by the Compagnie Mar i t ime Zai'roise. Imports transported by an air car- rier other than Air Zai're require the prior approval of the Bank of Zaire. Payments by expatriates for medical t rea tment abroad are not transferab le. Outward remit- tances of remunerations by expatriate employees dur ing 1981 were limited to the level authorized dur ing 1980. Other payments relating to services performed by nonresidents are, in principle, permitted. However, the t r an s f er abroad of salaries of fore ign na t iona ls is limited to 50 per cent of net salary. Transfers pertaining to certain administrative expenses that firms incur abroad, interest on private loans, and payment of certain por- tions of insu rance premiums are generally permitted. T rans fe rs of net profits of firms with fore ign participa- tion have been suspended except where the t rans fer of such profits is expressly gua ran teed by the Investment Code or by b i la teral agreements. Payments for com- missions, management fees, and royalties are also suspended. Fares for travel abroad may be paid in Zaire in domestic currency. However, residents of Zairian na t iona l i ty may travel by a foreign airline only with the permission of the Department of Transportation and Commun ica t ion. Resident expatriates are, in general, permitted once a year to purchase in domestic currency a direct round-trip ticket to their country of origin. Zairian nationals traveling abroad on official missions may buy foreign exchange in amounts that depend on the duration of the journey and the seniority of the traveler. Foreign exchange for travel and for medical expenses are suspended, and all official travel abroad must be authorized by the First Government Commis- sioner. For trips to Burundi and Rwanda, tourists and households residing in the border area are entitled once a mon th to purchase the equivalent of SDR 100 in Bu rundi or Rwanda francs. The export (as well as impo r t) of domestic bankno tes and coin is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports not covered by general declarations re- qu ire individual declarations. Banks are norma l ly autho- rized to approve such declarations. The declaration must specify the na ture of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE received. Export declarations are normally valid for three months; within this period, the proceeds must be received and surrendered. Banks are required to sur- render to the Bank of Zai're 30 per cent of export receipts surrendered to them. Producer-exporters gener- ally are permitted to retain 15 per cent of their export receipts for authorized uses. For coffee exporters, the retention quotas are 20 per cent for those who also plant and process, 15 per cent for those who process, and 10 per cent for those who only export. Special provisions apply to mineral production of the Generate des Carrieres et des Mines du Zaire (GECAM INES ), which is marketed exclusively by the Societe Zairoise de Commercialisation des Produits Miniers (SOZACOM) or its subsidiary, Societe Zairoise d'Exportation (SOZAREX). On shipment, SOZACOM credits the account of GECAMINES with a provisional payment of a portion of the shipment's estimatad value and with the balance of the proceeds upon execution of the sales contract. GECAMINES is allowed to retain provisionally up to 45 per cent of its export proceeds with banks abroad or in Zaire for meeting its own payments abroad, and must surrender the remainder of its proceeds as well as any end-of-month balances on retained earnings in excess of Belgian francs 800 million to the Bank of Zai're. After deduction of marketing costs, SOZACOM is required to surrender its export proceeds to the Bank of Zaire and to the producers. Partial nonrepatriation and retention are also permit- ted for the metal exports of the Societe de Developpe- ment Industriel et Minier du Zai're (SODIMIZA). The diamond exports of the Societe Miniere de Bakwanga (M iBA) are marketed exclusively by SOZACOM. Receipts from agricultural exports must generally be repatriated within three months of validation. Minimum export prices have been established for coffee, cacao, tea, ivory, papain, rauwolfia, and cinchona. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained by the authorized banks. Nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign means of payment and may take out on departure the amount declared on entry less the equivalent of the expenses incurred dur ing their stay in Zai're. Capital The repatriation of new foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is guar- anteed, as is the transfer of profits and dividends on such capital. With minor exceptions, transfers abroad of capital owned by residents or nonresidents are sus- pended. Gratuitous transfers of real estate are subject to approval by departmental ordinance. The foreign currency assets of the authorized banks are not permitted to exceed their short-term liabilities in foreign currencies. Certain capital payments have been delayed. Arrears on principal payable to official creditors and some commercial banks are the subject of consolidation agreements. 484 Gold Residents other than the mone tary au thor i t ies and producers of gold are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry; the import and export of gold in the form of jewelry constituting approval of the Bank of Zai're. Since February and the personal effects of a traveler require the prior April 1979, two private mining companies producing gold have been required to sell their gold production to the Bank of Zaire. The agreed price has been 90 per cent of the opening London market quotation converted to zaires at the prevailing official rate. As a quid pro quo, the Bank o f .Z a i re provides cover for certain foreign exchange needs of these companies. Changes during 1981 January 28. Circular No. 175 was issued, specifying 199 categories of commodities that could be imported under the SAD system (i.e., imports financed without recourse to the foreign exchange resources of the bank ing system) and would require the submission of import declarations to OZAC prior to shipment. Imports valued at SDR 500 f.o.b. or less and destined for personal use were exempted f rom both import declara- tion and preshipment control requirements, while those valued at SDR 501-2,500 were exempted f rom pre- shipment only; an exchange control tax of 0.3 per cent was applied. Imports of tires, inner tubes, other similar products, and iron and steel products under the Circular would require the prior approval of the Department of National Economy and Industry. The Circular also called for prior approval of the Bank of Zai're for transportation of imports by air. Importers of such products were required to provide evidence of the mar- keting of other relevant goods within 30 days of receipt. February 3. The allocation system of export and invisible earnings retained by commercial banks was modified as follows: (a) the share of raw materials, intermediate goods, and certain finished products was increased from 35 per cent to 45 per cent, and that of essential consumer goods and Pharmaceuticals was reduced from 33 per cent to 30 per cent (the propor- tion allocated to invisible payments was maintained at 25 per cen t ); (b) the shares of nonpriority goods and the unrestricted margin, previously 5 per cent and 2 per cent, respectively, were abolished; and (c) for invisible receipts, the allocation of which was previously uncontrolled, the commercial banks would be required either to surrender them to the Bank of Zaire or use them to increase any of the coefficients mentioned above or to finance imports of specified commodities or under specified conditions. March 13. The monetary agreement between the central banks of the member states of the Economic Community of the Great Lake Countries (Zaire, Bu- rundi, and Rwanda) was renewed with the following amendments: (a) the central banks were each allowed to stock the currency of its partners to cover the needs of travelers; such stocks would remain the property of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the issuing central bank; (b) a timetable for quarterly settlements was specified; (c) a creditor country would be permitted to specify the convertible currency to be used in settlement; and ( d) procedures for the arbitra- tion of any conflict arising from the operation of the arrangements were established. April 2. Ordinance-Law No. 81-014 gave SOZACOM the exclusive right to sell Zaire's production of diamonds. April 6. Circular No. 176 provided that monthly transfers of expatriate salaries in 1981 would be limited to amounts authorized in 1980 (limits on monthly transfers for newly hired expatriates would be fixed by the Bank of Zaire). June 2. Circular No. 177 provided that, effective immediately, the Bank of Zaire would publish the official exchange rates of the Kenya shilling, the Spanish peseta, and the Japanese yen. Accordingly, the com- mercial banks were authorized to transact in these cur- rencies within existing regulations. June 17. Circular No. 178 amended certain pro- visions of Circular No. 175 (January 28, 1981) as follows: (a) all products under each eligible category could be imported except for certain specified prohibi- tions (including coffee, tea, pyrethrum, portland cement, explosives, matches, telephone equipment, walkie-talkies, military equipment and munitions, sound equipment, gambling equipment and materials contrary to public mo ra ls ); (b) a list of import items was exempted from the import declaration requirement, comprising grants to recognized philanthropic organizations, com- mercial samples without value, diplomatic imports, imports for the operations of foreign transport com- panies represented in Zaire, goods for personal use or resale valued at SDR 2,500 or less, goods used for haulage, and baggage and personal objects of travelers. In addition, import declarations were required to indi- cate whether the goods involved were for personal use or for resale; and a fine in foreign exchange of 4 per cent of the f.o.b. value would be imposed on shipments not conforming to the shipping regulations of OZAC. Circular No. 178 also authorized a three-month exten- sion of the six-month period for effecting shipment under an import declaration. ZAIRE June 19. The zai're was devalued by 40 per cent from Z 1 = SDR 0.2625 to Z 1 = SDR 0.1575. June 23. The Executive Council announced that foreign exchange allocations amoun t ing to US$50 mil- lion would be made available from official reserves to 201 private enterprises. Only 50 per cent of the counterpart in local currency of the special allocation could be raised through credits from the banking sys- tem, and importers who were not able to use their allocation within 30 days of notification would forfe it the right to do so. June 29. Zai're entered into a contract with the U.S. General Services Administration to sell 5.2 million pounds of cobalt at US$15 a pound for a total amount of US$78 million; delivery would be made over a 12-month period. July 1. Under the US$50 million foreign exchange allocation announced on June 23, importers were re- quired to deposit the local currency equivalent of their respective allocations prior to July 15, calculated on the basis of the prevailing exchange rate. In addition, the 50 per cent limit on the amount that could be borrowed from domestic banks was raised to 75 per cent for industrial importers. July 9. The Paris Club agreed to reschedule debt service paymen ts fa l l ing due, f rom Janua ry 1, 1981 to December 31, 1982. July 23. In respect of the US$50 million foreign exchange allocation, the rates of exchange to be applied to determine the counterpart in zaires was changed to the rates that applied on the date of the validation of the import declaration. September 23. The Executive Council announced that an additional US$20 million of foreign exchange would be made available from official reserves to finance import needs of private enterprises. The conditions attached to the use of the US$20 million were to be the same as those attached to the use of the previously announced allocation of US$50 million. (The US$20 million became available from November 25, 1981.) 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1981) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha. Since March 17, 1978 the middle rate for the kwacha has been fixed at K 1 = SDR 0.976311. Zambia avails itself of margins of 2.5 per cent around that fixed rela- tionship. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency, and the rates of the Bank of Zambia (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar are based on the daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1981 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 0.87946 and K 0.88607, respectively, per US$1. The Bank of Zambia deals with the Government and with authorized banks in U.S. dollars and sterling. Autho- rized banks are free to deal in other currenc ies at rates based on daily rates provided by the Bank of Zambia, or on the basis of cross rates with the U.S. dollar pre- vailing in international foreign exchange markets. In its dealings with the commercial banks the Bank of Zambia applies a margin of 0.25 per cent for purchases of for- eign exchange and 0.50 per cent for sales. Authorized banks are permitted to charge an add i t ional 1 per cent on either side for sales and purchases of U.S. dollars, and 1.50 per cent for sales and purchases of other currencies, when quoting their rates to customers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The con- trol of trade is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, which also issues import and export licenses. Overall import policy is determined by the Ministerial Committee on Foreign Exchange. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of other countries may be made in Zambian currency to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Pay- ments from residents of other countries may be received in sterling or in Zambian currency from an External Account, or in any foreign currency freely exchangeable for U.S. dollars or sterling. All permitted commercial transactions with residents of Zimbabwe are subject to the same exchange control provisions as are applied to any External Account country. However, restrictions on the repatriation of blocked assets of residents of Zimbabwe remain unchanged for the time being (see also section on Nonresident Accounts, below). 486 Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of other coun tr ies are designated External Accounts.1 These accounts may be credited with authorized payments f rom residents of Zambia, with t rans fe rs from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of any fore ign currency by non- residents to au thor ized banks. They may be debited for paymen ts for any purpose to residents of Zambia, for t ran s fe rs to other External Accounts, and for purchases of any fore ign currency f rom authorized banks. Blocked Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of any coun t ry other than Zamb ia are credited with non t rans fe rab le capital sums in Zambian currency. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, except that the accounts of emi- g ran ts may be debited each year for the permitted anniversary allowance for a remittance to the country of residence of the account holder. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances on Blocked Accounts in Zambian securities, provided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The in terest on Blocked Account balances is freely t rans fe rab le to the account holder's coun try of resi- dence, except interest on existing blocked assets due a resident of Zimbabwe. Following the l i f t ing of sanc- tions against Zimbabwe, balances in previously Blocked Accounts of Zimbabwean residents remain non transfer- able pend ing agreement on settlement of Zambian resi- dents' Blocked Accounts in Zimbabwe. Imports and Import Payments The import from all countries of certain specified commodities is prohibited for reasons of health, safety, or public policy. Personal and household effects, sam- ples, diplomatic shipments, and means of transportation entering Zambia temporarily do not require individual import licenses, nor do any other goods for personal use and consumption, provided that the person import- ing them does not import more th an K 50 worth of such goods in any period of 90 days. However, no pay- ment may be made for goods not licensed, even where the value is less than K 50. The import of goods up to a va lue of K 500 that does not involve a remittance of foreign exchange is also exempt from a licensing requirement. The two ma jor mining companies and the Ministry of Health are granted priority for bona fide requirements. The Controller of Customs is autho- rized to admit emergency goods imported without prior 1 Authorized banks are requ ired to obtain prior permission of the exchange control au thor i t ies before des igna t ing any new Exter- nal Account except where the account is to be opened for a temporary visitor. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution reference to the M in is try of Commerce. All other imports require ind iv idual import licenses. Import licensing aims at containing imports w i th in a half-year exchange allocation established by the Ministry of Commerce in consu l ta t ion with the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Zambia. However, subject to approval, imports may be licensed without allocation of exchange. All imports under ind iv idual licensing are divided into three-digit groups following the Stan- dard International Trade Classification system and in to end-use groupings. Exchange allocations are specified for each of these categories. Norma l ly, raw ma ter ia ls, in termed ia te goods for fu r th er processing in Zambia, Pharmaceuticals, and fuel and electricity are licensed liberally; alcoholic beverages, tobacco, durable con- sumer goods, and other consumer goods are licensed restrictively. No licenses are being issued for items that are also produced locally. In principle, fo re ign exchange for import paymen ts is au toma t ica l ly made available once an import license has been obtained, subject to presentation of the relevant documen ts to an authorized bank, inc lud ing a clean report of f ind ings issued by the General Superintendence Company Limited of Geneva, which verifies the price, quality, and quan t i ty in the coun try of origin or shipment. Importers must obtain the approval of the Bank of Zambia before letters of credit can be opened by the commercial banks, and all f inanc ial arrangemen ts between importers and foreign suppliers for the supply of goods on credit must be approved by the Bank of Zambia. All imports except those financed by sup- pliers' credits must be f inanced by letters of credit with m in imum terms of 90 days. The commercial banks are notified every six months about the max imum amount of letters of credit that each bank may open. Importers in tend ing to import goods not involving use of official fore ign exchange must obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Zambia before app ly ing to the Ministry of Com- merce and Indus t ry for a "no currency" import license. Importers must have the import license approved by the M in is te r ial Committee on Foreign Exchange Alloca- tion before presenting it for approval by the Bank of Zambia and subsequently to the commercial banks for the issuance of letters of credit. The commercial banks are required to submit to the Bank of Zambia a weekly re turn on letters of credit opened, giving specified pieces of information. Most imported goods are subject to a sales tax of 12.50 per cent of taxable value, which is calculated as the sum of ( 1) 120 per cent of the customs va lue; (2) the applicable customs du ty; and (3) 25 per cent of the sum of (1) and ( 2 ). Certain import payments are in arrears; these arrears have been centralized, and the Bank of Zambia is settling them in accordance with certain priorities. Payments for Invisibles Authorized dealers are, in general, permitted to pro- ZAMBIA vide foreign exchange up to 40 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue of imports to cover fre ight and other charges. There is a tourist travel allowance of K 500 an adult for each calendar year. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is K 120 a person a day for up to 15 days a calendar year and is limited to two trips a year; exchange for this purpose may also be provided by the commercial banks w i thout prior reference to the exchange control authorities. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes such as educa t ion and medical t rea tmen t. Applications for amoun ts exceeding these l im i ts may be granted by the exchange control authorities, if they are satisfied that exceptional t rea tment is jus t if ied. Applications for remittance abroad of part or all of paymen ts for advertising, managemen t, accounting, adm in i s t ra t ive, engineering, and consulting services ren- dered to residents by nonresidents are subject to indi- v idual approval by the Bank of Zambia, which gen- era l ly g ran ts the required permission, provided that the fees charged are reasonable, that they relate to existing contracts, and that these services cannot be provided domestically.2 Profits and dividends of subsidiaries and branches of companies whose head offices are situated ou ts ide Zambia may be transferred abroad up to 15 per cent of the nonresident share of the equity capital, or 50 per cent of the net profits accru ing to the nonresi- dent owners of incorporated companies, whichever is smaller/3 Expa tr ia te fa rme rs are perm i t ted to remit 12.5 per cent of their af ter- tax profits including profits earned f rom a partnership or pr iva te limited company engaged in fa rm ing. A fu r ther 10 per cent m a y> be held to their credit every year for eventual remittance when they leave Zambia. Such remittances are allowed once a year af ter the end of the accounting year. The remit- tance of depreciation allowances is not permitted. Any a i r l ine not landing and picking up passengers in Zambia is not allowed to remit funds abroad except for those f u n ds already accumulated in Zambia. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia on a con- t ract made a f ter December 4, 1971 are allowed to remit one third of their annual earnings (subject to a max imum of K 7,000) to the country nominated when the contract was registered with the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these arrangemen ts are not entitled to the regular allow- ances for travel, education, maintenance, etc.; their leave salary, g ra tu i ty, and other term inal benefits are transferab le only on completion of the contract period and are subject to a ceiling of K 8,000 on departure, or on completion of contract. Remittances of up to K 20 2 Services rendered by a parent company abroad to its branch or wholly owned subsidiary in Zambia are not generally approved. 3 An aud i to r 's certificate must be submitted to the effect that the amount to be transferred represents bona fide realized profits de r ived f r om the yea r 's operations a f t er fu ll provision has been made for local taxa t ion. The profit and loss account and balance sheet for the year in respect of which application is being made must also be submitted. 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA a year are normally approved by the exchange control authorities for fam i ly maintenance. Travelers leaving Zambia may take out a maximum of K 10 in Zambian currency. Certain payments for invisibles are in arrears. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over K 50 require a license, except those covered by an open general license; min- erals are exported under general agreements with the mining companies. The export of certain metals is reserved, in principle, for an official agency, the Metal Marketing Corporation. Certain commodities are sub- ject to licensing mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials, such as implements of war, lead in any form, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and ju te bags. For most goods, however, export licenses are issued free ly. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months of the date of shipment; the foreign exchange proceeds of copper exports, however, must be credited to a Bank of Zambia account in Lon- don upon receipt. All exports must be financed through irrevocable letters of credit and be registered with the Bank of Zambia. Unless evidence of conversion of at least an equivalent amount in exchange can be pro- vided, hotel bills payable by nonresidents must be settled in foreign exchange. Nonnational agricultural producers are eligible for certain incentives in the form of foreign exchange, on the basis of every standard bag of maize, wheat, or soybean sold by them in excess of the prescribed num- ber of bags. Corresponding foreign exchange incentives for national agricultural producers are made available on application to the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, except that travelers from Zai're are allowed to import only up to the equiva- lent of K 20. Travelers arriving in Zambia may bring in a maximum of K 10 in Zambian currency. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, but with the exception of overseas short-term financing of imports other than certain capital goods, all borrowing outside Zambia requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources out- side Zambia. The repatriation is generally spread over 488 a period longer than three years. Local borrowing by companies controlled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is restricted to a debt-equity ratio of 1 to 2. However, the Bank of Zambia permits borrow- ings in excess of this limit for certain priority sectors of the economy, provided that the borrowings secure higher employment opportunities or savings of foreign exchange. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, w i th certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Zamb ian securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges abroad, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that, in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities, the sales pro- ceeds will be repatriated. All income earned f rom these investments must be repatriated. Emigrants are gran ted exchange as fo l lows ( 1) Per- sons 50 years of age and over are allowed K 8,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 5,000. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed K 4,000 on departure, together with K 250 for each child, up to a maximum of K 5,000 for a fam i ly un i t. Thereafter, annual transfers of K 3,000, together with K 250 for each child, up to a maximum of K 4,000 for a fam i ly unit are permitted. (3) Unmarried persons under 50 are allowed K 2,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 1,500. In addition to their emi- gration allowance, emigrants may remit gratuities, com- pensation payments, up to one third of leave pay, and terminal benefits up to a max imum of K 8,000 on departure, or on completion of contract. In addition, there are special facilities for expatriate fa rme rs for the transfer of profits up to certain limits (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange control approval as well as import or export licenses issued by the Minister of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold-bearing sludge is exported by copper companies for ref in ing and sale abroad. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may be provided with the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes during 1981 January 20. Changes were announced in existing regulations as follows: (a) the Bank of Zambia would not consider applications for the takeover of any com- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution pany in Zambia owned wholly or partly by persons or companies resident in foreign countries; (b) the Bank of Zambia would not consider applications for remit- tances of liquidation of proceeds on discontinued busi- ness of foreign-controlled companies or branches in Zambia by companies whose head offices are situated abroad; and (c) the Bank of Zambia would no longer permit any individuals or companies to open bank accounts in other countries even if the account is to be used for business purposes. April 29. The following changes were made in import regulations: (a) the Bank of Zambia suspended com- mercial banks' authority to approve applications for imports and announced that all applications for letters of credit or to pay for due bills of exchange would require the approval of the Bank of Zambia. Appli- cations were required to be accompanied by a supplier's invoice, import license, evidence of receipt of goods in Zambia, if the goods had already been received, and a clean report of finding by the Societe Generale de Surveillance; and (b) local importers could not avail themselves of short-term overseas financing facilities without the prior approval of the Bank of Zambia. May 1. Changes were made in existing regulations as follows: (a) No payments commitments in respect of bills of exchange, acceptances, or any such other instruments could be made without the prior approval of the Bank of Zambia. (b) All bills of exchange and other instruments negotiated prior to May 1, 1981 were required to be registered with the Bank of Zambia accompanied by evidence of the order by the Zambian importers, sup- plier's invoices, import licenses, and a report by the Societe Generale de Surveillance. (c) With the exception of imports under suppliers' credits, all imports into Zambia were required to be financed by letters of credit with m in imum terms of 30 days, and the approval of the Bank of Zambia was required before any letter of credit would be issued by a commercial bank. Within 90 days of clearing the goods or within 6 months from the date stated in the exchange control form I, whichever was earlier, importers were required to provide evidence to the commercial bank that the goods had been imported into Zambia. (d) The Bank of Zambia would no t ify commercial banks every six months as regards the maximum amount of letters of credit each bank may open. (e) All arrangements w i th foreign suppliers for the supply of goods on credit were required to be approved by the bank of Zambia, including existing suppliers' credit lines that the importer may wish to continue utilizing. (All such credit line arrangements were required to be incorporated into a formal document, giving in fo rma t ion on the max imum amount in foreign currency to be financed over the duration of the facility together with the maximum rate of utilization, the ZAMBIA terms of drawings, and the applicable rate of interest on ou ts tand ing drawings.) (f) All applications in respect of existing lines of credit which importers might wish to continue were required to be submitted to the Bank of Zambia, and importers could not enter into any commitments in respect of lines of credit in the course of negotiation or to be arranged in f u t u re without the prior approval of the Bank of Zambia. (g) All applications in respect of the foregoing regulations were required to be submitted through the importer's commercial bank, which was required to submit to the Bank of Zambia a weekly re tu rn on credits opened and due to ma tu re in the next 90 days, provid- ing specified pieces of informa t ion about the respective transactions. May 23. All residents in tend ing to import goods without involving use of official foreign exchange were required to obtain the approval of the Bank of Zambia before applying to the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try for a "no currency" import license; the applications were required to be accompanied, where applicable, by in fo rma t ion on evidence of payment made for goods together w i th freight, evidence of the source of foreign exchange, and any other document showing that pay- ment had been made in foreign exchange. June 24. It was announced that all imports into Zambia would be required to be financed by letters of credit with m in imum terms of 90 days. (All other fea tu res of the regulations in troduced on May 1 remained unchanged .) July 21. The following changes were made in travel regulations: (a) all travelers, apart f rom those exempted under the Income Tax Act, were required to produce a valid tax clearance certificate before an airline ticket could be sold to them, and upon issuance each ticket coupon had to be endorsed with the passport number of the traveler; (b) all nonres iden ts in t end ing to pur- chase tickets in Zambia were required to pay for the tickets in fo re ign exchange, and tickets for which pay- men ts were made in kwacha had to be issued exclusively to residents, w i th prepaid t icke ts available to the imme- diate f am i ly only of the residents; (c) all ticket coupons should be endorsed w i th: "Non-Endorseable Without Prior Reference to Issuing Office," with a fu r ther endorsement: "Refundable only in Coun try of Origin"; and (d) all tickets were required to have a location in Zambia as point of origin and should be fu l ly account- able and properly registered, with the registers being subject to regular inspection by appropriate authorities. August 10. All authorized dealers' foreign exchange receipts hitherto retained in correspondent accounts were required to be surrendered to the Bank of Zambia. August 14. It was announced that any airline not landing and picking up passengers in Zambia would not be allowed to remit funds abroad, except those funds which were already accumulated in Zambia. 489 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA October 22. All exports were required to be financed were required to be settled in foreign exchange; evi- through irrevocable letters of credit and to be registered dence of conversion of an equivalent or greater amount with the Bank of Zambia, accompanied by copies of of foreign exchange into kwacha had to be provided specified documents. before kwacha could be accepted for the settlement of November 22. All hotel bills payable by nonresidents such bills. 490 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position on December 31,1982) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe Dollar. The exchange ra te of the Zimbabwe dollar is determined on the basis of fixed relationships to a transactions- weighted basket of currencies consisting of the French f ranc, the deutsche ma rk, the pound sterling, the South A f r ican rand, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar; the U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The spread applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe between the buying and selling rates is 0.8 per cent for major currencies and 1.0 per cent for other currencies. An additional 0.25 per cent on either side of the quoted rates of ma jor currencies may be charged by authorized dealers (authorized commercial and merchant banks ). The authorized dealers base the ir rates for other cur- rencies on current international ma rket rates. On December 31, 1981 the official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Reserve Bank in its dealings with authorized dealers were US$1.3894 and US$1.3715, respectively, per Z $ l. Forward exchange contracts are permitted only for trade transactions. There is no limit on the amount of such contracts, but these must be limited to periods of three to six months. The Reserve Bank is prepared to cover fo rwa rd trans- actions and, at present, quotes fixed discount or pre- m ium rates for major currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank, under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance, in terms of the Exchange Control Act, Chap- ter 170, and the Exchange Control Regulations of 1977. Authorized dealers have been empowered to approve certain foreign exchange transactions in accordance with Exchange Control Instructions Issued to Authorized Dealers (July 1, 1981, as amended) and Exchange Control Circulars issued periodically. Import and export controls are administered in accordance with the Con- trol of Goods (Import and Export) (Agr icu l ture) Regu- lations of 1965, as amended, the Control of Goods (Import and Export) (Commerce) Regulations of 1974, as amended, the Control of Goods (Export of Minerals and Metals) Order, 1979, the Control of Goods (Open General Import License) Notice of 1979, and the Control of Goods (Open General Export License) Notice, 1977. Prescription of Currency All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in denominated currencies,1 with the exception 1 There are 17 denominated currencies which are f ree ly convertible through authorized dealers: Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norweg ian k rone r, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South Afr ican rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. of payments otherwise specified or effected through nonresident accounts. There are no bilateral payments agreements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be opened w i th the approval of the exchange control authorities by persons who have never been residents of Zimbabwe. Non- resident accounts may be credited with foreign cur- rencies, with payments f rom other nonresident accounts, or with payments by residents that would be eligible for transfer outside Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be debited for payments to residents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for paymen ts abroad. Former residents who are now outside of Zimbabwe may only ma in ta in emigrants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets held in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and from these accounts are strictly subject to various exchange restrictions. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of products covered by the Open General Import License (OG IL ), all imports are subject to licensing requirements. (At present the OGIL covers very few items.) Import licenses are issued only against a certificate of foreign exchange allocation. Global foreign exchange allocations are made available by the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Trade and Commerce for three-month periods. The latter Ministry is responsible for the detailed distribution of allocations to the various sectors, both public and private, on a priority basis. For purposes of allocating commercial imports, ind iv idual products are classified into five categories in accordance with the degree of essentiality. (In the manu fac tu r ing sector, because of employment considerations, similar priority ratings are not so strictly applied.) Foreign exchange is allocated to individual commercial importers for single ta r i ff items (w i th facilities for a limited degree of transferab i l i ty between i tem s ), whereas foreign exchange allocated to manu fac tu re rs is for a group of ta r i ff items appropriate to the industrial division concerned. Manu fac tu re rs receive through the Ministry of Indu s t ry and Energy Development separate allocations for raw materials required for production for the local and export mar- kets; the former is assessed on the basis of priority and foreign exchange availability, while the latter is adjusted in the light of actual export performance over the previous 12-month period. Allocations granted dur ing the first and third quarters of the year may be carried forward and added to those granted in the second and fou r th quarters, respectively. Import licenses have to be drawn against allocation certificates at the time orders are placed. The normal 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE validity of import licenses is six months f rom the end of the month of issue, but the validity period can be extended in certain circumstances. Import licenses are normally issued without geographical restriction, and importers are free to choose the country of supply. Licenses are issued on an f.o.b. basis and do not, therefore, cover the invisibles element of the trans- actions. Imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Certain agricultural products (coffee, maize, sorghum, soybeans, and wheat) may be imported only by the Grain Marketing and Cotton Marketing Boards or by others with the per- mission of the Boards. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied in the case of certain agricultural products. Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, provided neces- sary documentation (including the details of import licenses or open general licenses) is submitted. Pay- ments for imports into Zimbabwe from all countries may be made in Zimbabwean currency to a local non- resident account or in any foreign currency. The customs duty regime consists mainly of ad valorem duties, which range up to 40 per cent, and specific duties on a number of products. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax of 12 per cent or 15 per cent, which is the countervailing levy to the sales tax imposed at the same rates on goods sold domes- tically. Most imports are subject to a surtax of 5 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports and, within certain limits, for other purposes is provided by commercial banks under delegated authority. Applications for foreign exchange exceeding the limit established for a commercial bank are approved by the Reserve Bank, which deals with each case on its merits. The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel in Africa is Z$50 a day up to a maximum of Z$600 for the two-year period January 1, 1981- December 31, 1982 and, for travel outside Africa, Z$50 a day up to a maximum of Z$800 for the two- year period January 1, 1981-December 31, 1982. (Children under ten are entitled to one half of these amounts.) The basic foreign exchange allowance for business travel is Z$100 a day up to a maximum of Z$2,000 a trip, with an overall annual maximum of Z$4,000. For business travel to Europe and the United States, an additional allowance may be provided with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secondary school level, within the following limits: Z$2,750 a year for education at universities other than those in the United States and the United Kingdom and Z$6,000 492 a year for education at universities in the United States and the United Kingdom. For medical treatment, foreign exchange is provided up to Z$20 a day for a maximum period of 30 days for the patient and any necessary accompanying companion. Remittances for donation are limited to Z$30 a year, Z$40 for sub- scriptions to religious and educational societies, and Z$20 for other societies; the limit for an initial mem- bership fee is Z$50. Remittances to close relatives permanently resident outside Zimbabwe, not exceeding Z$30 a month for each individual beneficiary and Z$60 a month for each fam i ly un i t, may be approved by authorized dealers. As regards remittances of dividends and profits, shareholders may freely remit all declared dividends for financial years ending on or a f t er March 31, 1981 (or June 30, 1980 for those whose dividends were not blocked prev ious ly), provided that the total so declared by a company does not exceed 50 per cent of the company's after-tax profits. Dividends in excess of 50 per cent of the after-tax profits of companies in favor of nonresidents are blocked, but these limitations do not apply to individual shareholders who have never been resident in Zimbabwe. Blocked dividends, interest, and other incomes (including 50 per cent of after-tax branch prof i ts) that had accrued during the period 1965-73 to companies (except insurance com- panies) domiciled in previously designated countries (Canada, the United Kingdom, and the Un i ted States) are released over a six-year period by means of special, tax-free, six-year government bonds with an annual interest rate of 4 per cent; one sixth of such bonds would be redeemable annually from the end of the first year. Interest accruing from Ju ly 1, 1980 on all blocked funds of companies and corporations domiciled in the designated countries is freely transferable, as is all interest accruing in favor of individuals resident in the former designated countries (subject to a max imum of Z$ 15,000 a year for former residents). Applications for emigrant status must be submitted to the Reserve Bank. Transferable allowances at the time of emigration are as follows: ( 1) single persons under the age of 40 years, Z$500; (2) single persons aged 40-59 years, Z$ 1,000; (3) fam i ly units and single persons with dependents (under 60 years of age), Z$ 1,000; (4) fam i ly units (husband over 60 years of age) and single persons over 60, Z$7,000; (5) persons over 80 years of age, Z$ 10,000; (6) widows (no age restriction), Z$ 10,000; and (7) handicapped or dis- abled persons, Z$ 10,000. A fu r ther release of capital is made as an annual allowance on the anniversary date of the emigrant's departure, as follows: persons over 65 years of age, Z$2,000 and persons over 70 years of age, Z$3,000. Emigrants who left Zimbabwe prior to January 1, 1980 and who had blocked assets in Zimbabwe not exceeding Z$ 1,000 may apply for the immediate release of such funds; those with blocked assets of more than Z$ 1,000 but less than Z$3,000 may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution also apply for the release of such funds through place- ment in the above-mentioned special government bonds. A traveler leaving Zimbabwe may take out not more than Z$20 in Zimbabwean currency together with a maximum of the equivalent of Z$20 in foreign bank- notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency and travelers checks they imported less the amount sold to authorized dealers. Upon departure from Zimbabwe, nonresident travelers may reconvert unspent Zimbabwean currency into foreign currencies against presentation of exchange certificates. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required to export certain products which are not covered by the Open General Export Licenses; these include ( 1) any ore, concentrate, or other manu fac tu red product of chrome, copper, lith- ium, nickel, tin, or tungsten; (2) petroleum products; (3) ju te and hessian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carrying liquids or semiliquids; (5) b i tumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) wild animals and wild an imal products; (7) certain wood products; ( 8) ammon ium nitrate; and (9) implements of war. in addition to security or social reasons, export licensing requirements are intended to ensure adequate domestic supply of essential products. Goods may not be exported without permission, unless the customs au thor i t ies are satisfied that pay- ment has been made in an approved manner or will be so made w i th in three months f rom the date of ship- ment or such longer period as may be permitted by the Reserve Bank. Payments for exports must be received w i th in 90 days in the fo l low ing manne r: (1) in a denominated currency; (2) in Zimbabwean currency from a nonresident account; and (3) in the case of Malawi and Botswana, by checks drawn in Malawi kwacha or Botswana pula, respectively. In addition, exports to some 50 countries are approved only upon advance payment of export proceeds or if payment is covered by an irrevocable letter of credit issued or confirmed prior to export by a reputable overseas bank. Export receipts must be sold to authorized dealers. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles are required to be sold to authorized banks within a reasonable period of time. Residents performing professional services abroad are not permitted to retain any part of their foreign exchange earnings, and such earnings are required to be sold to an authorized bank. Foreign currency and travelers checks may be imported without restrictions but must be sold or exchanged in Zimbabwe only through authorized dealers. A traveler may bring in Zimba- bwean currency up to a max imum of Z$20. Capital Inward transfers of capital through normal banking channels are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but all ZIMBABWE foreign investments, irrespective of their source, which are under taken through normal bank ing channels since September 1, 1979 may be considered for repatriation after two years, subject to the requirement that the amount to be repatriated will be reduced by any profits remitted in the interim. Where such au thor i ty is granted, the balance may be transferred only through the established medium of six-year, 4 per cent a year interest, tax-free government bonds. The repatriation of capital invested before Septem- ber 1, 1979 is prohibited; however, shareholders are allowed within limits to apply to the Reserve Bank for the remittance of such capital upon the sale of shares to local residents, and if such application is approved, the capital is invested in six-year, 4 per cent a year interest, tax-free government bonds. Income accruing in Zimbabwe to fo rmer residents who have emigrated is remittable up to an annual l im it of Z$ 15,000. The rem i t tab i l i ty of the Zimba- bwean pension of a former resident is guaran teed under the Cons t i tu t ion. All other ou tward transfers of capital are subject to approval by the Reserve Bank, as are dealings in external securities. Gold The export of gold in unm anu f a c tu r ed form is con- trolled and licensed under the Control of Goods (Export of Minerals and Me ta ls) Order, 1979. The adm in is tra t ion of the Order is the responsibility of the M in is try of Mines. No person may export any precious metal and certain other specified metals and minerals unless he holds an export license; no such licenses for gold are issued. These controls do not, however, apply to the Reserve Bank. The import of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act. The Act provides for certain requirements to be met where a person in tends to import gold into Zimbabwe. No person, either as principal or agent, is entitled to deal in or possess gold unless ( 1) he is the holder of a license or perm i t; or (2) he is the holder or distributor of a registered mining location from which gold is being produced; or (3) he is the employee or agent of any of the persons mentioned in ( 1) and (2) above, and is authorized by his employer or principal to deal in or possess gold in the lawful possession of such employer or principal. A m in ing commissioner may issue to any person a permit au thor iz ing him to acquire or to be in possession of or to dispose of any gold, provided the quan t i ty does not exceed one troy ounce. In all other cases, permission can only be issued by the Secretary for Mines. Three types of licenses may be issued under the terms of the Gold Trade Act: a gold dealing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assaying license. Barclays Bank International Ltd. is the only authorized dealer under the terms of the Act, and each holder or distributor of a registered m in ing location is required to lodge w i th this bank all gold acquired by him in the course of his operations by 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE the tenth day of the month following that in which the gold was produced. Where a person intends to smelt any gold or any article containing gold, he must first obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Second Hand Goods Act authorizing him to be in possession of smelting equipment. Changes during 1981 January 5. The procedures under which blocked dividends, interest, and other incomes that had accrued during the period 1965-73 to companies domiciled in previously designated countries (Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States) would be released over a six-year period by means of six-year special government bonds at an annual interest rate of 4 per cent, tax-free, came into operation. January 5. Emigrants who left Zimbabwe prior to January 1, 1980 and who had blocked assets in Zim- babwe not exceeding Z$ 1,000 were allowed to apply for the immediate release of such funds. Those with blocked assets exceeding Z$ 1,000 but less than Z$3,000 were allowed to apply for the release of such funds by means of the above-mentioned special government bonds. July 1. A customs surcharge at the rate of 5 per cent was levied on imports, with the exception of fuel, government imports, capital goods for s ta tu tory bodies, and surgical and medical goods. July 30. The annual limits on ind iv idual foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel (Z$600 for travel to African countries and Z$800 for travel to other countries) were defined on a biennial basis, retroactive Janua ry 1, 1981. July 30. The annual l im it on foreign exchange remit- tances in respect of income accruing to assets owned by emigrants was reduced to Z$ 15,000 regardless of the emigrant's age. (Previously, the annual limits were Z$25,000 for persons up to the age of 60 years and Z$25,000 plus one third of the balance exceeding Z$25,000 for persons over the age of 60 years, w i th an overall limit of Z$50,000.) July 30. Remittances of the cash portion of inheri- tances were made subject to the above-mentioned spe- cial, tax-free government bonds. (The limit of Z$25,000 on remittances in kind remained unchanged; but pre- viously the limit applied to remittances in cash or kind .) 494 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as at date of A. Acceptance of Article S ta tus 1 Article VIII 2. Article XIV B. Exchange Arrangement 1. Exchange rate ma in ta ined w i th in relatively na r row ma rg in s4 in terms of: (a) U S dollar (b} d t 1' (c) French franc \°) Pou a sier n§ (d) South Afr ican rand, Spanish pese a, or Ind ian rupee (e) a cooperative exchange arrangement (under mu tual in te rven t ion system) ( } \S) a set or indicators f ' d' 2. Exchange ra te not maintained w i t h in relatively narrow ma rg ins4 as in (d)-(g) above, or otherwise aeterm nea (see coun t ry pages; 3. Separate exchange rates for some or all capital transactions and /or some or all invisibles 4. Impo rt rate(s) d i f fe rent from export rate (s) e C. Prescription of Currency exp D. Bilateral Payments A r rangemen ts 1. with members E. Paymen ts Restrictions 1. Res tr ic t ions on p aym en ts for ^ 2. Restrictions on paymen ts for cap i ta ransactions F. Cost-Related Impo rt Restrictions G. Su r render Requ i rement for Expo rt A f n a h g i s t n a o3 I A n i t a u g d n a B a r a d u b 3 A r n e g i t a n A u s r t a i l a cfl 3 CO 03 1 & .£ 'e3 1 B g n a l s e d a h % T31 I l e l g i u m d n a L e x u m u o b r g °l»N $ _£ 'G <U c 03 B J2 .2*> "o PQ B w o t s w a n a "s 2 ' l u r m a w D 1 3 PQ C a m e r n o o w 03 T3 rlU ^ e p a V e r e d v«^ C n e r t a l A i r f n a c R p e . w 1O For key and footnotes, see page 501. 496 (f) a composite of currencies 5. More than one rate for imports 6. more than one rate for exports 2. with nonmembers current transactions 5.6 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • I - M C l l ^ t » S I ! w ? 5 " .52iI£! ^- ^ 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 I I' 111 111 A • 1 111 1I11I I 1111I'' ' < A 9 A 9 1 ! 1 1 1 1 | ' ' ' ! ! ! ! ! ' i i i 1 1 h ! ' Aw• 1 ' i 1> ' i i ' i 1 1 '1|'' ''1 1 11 |I 1|'|' 1 1|ih h ' ! ! | ! 1 1 ' ' ! ' I 1 i i 1 1 1 1 i i i i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ' 1 i 1 ' i 1 |i M A • 'i ' 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1'i 1 1 1 1 ' 1 1 1 1 1 h i i iiii i i iiiii ii i i iiiiii i I AV 1 1 11 i11 11 1 1 1 11 1 1 i l1 1 11 1 111 11 1111 I 11'1 11 11111 111111111 111 1 1 J . 111 11 1111 11 1 11 111 I1 111 1 n n 1 1 1 1i1 ii'1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1ii 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 '1 1 1 1' i ii 1 1 1 1 1 1'11 '1 1'1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I ' i1 1'1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1i1'1 1'i 1 1 1 i1,1 1 1 1 1 1 1 i1 1 1 1 ' I 1 1 1 1 1 1'1 1i1'< i ' 1 ' I ii 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ' 1 1 i i '1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1''i ii 1A 1 1 1 ' 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 | 1 1 C h l i e C h i a n , P p o e l e s ' R p e . o f . i C o l o m b a C o m o r o s C o g n o C o s t a R i a c C p y r u s D n e m a r k D i j u o b i t D o m i n i a c D o m i n i n a c R b u p e i l c E o d a u c r E p y g t E l S a l o d a v r E a u q t o i r a l G u i a e n E t h i p o i a F i j i F i n l d n a F r e c n a G n o b a T e h G a m b i a G e r m y n a , F d e . R p e . o f G a n a h G r e c e e G r a d a n e G a u t e m a l a G u i a e n G u i a e n - B i u a s s G a n a y u H a i t i H u d n o r s a H g n o K g n o H a g n u r y I e c l d n a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as at date of A. Acceptance of Article S ta tus 1. Article VIII 2. Article XIV B. Exchange A r rangement 1. Exchange rate ma in ta ined w i th in relatively narrow marg ins4 in terms of: (a) U.S. dollar (b) pound sterling (c) French franc (d) South Afr ican rand, Spanish peseta, or Ind ian rupee (e) a cooperative exchange arrangement (under mu tual in terven t ion system) (/) a composite of currencies (g) a set of indicators 2. Exchange ra te not maintained w i th in relatively narrow margins4 as in (a)-(g) above, or otherwise determined (see coun t ry pages) 3. Separate exchange rates for some or all capital transactions and /or some or all invisibles 4. Impo rt rate(s) d i f fe rent f rom export rate(s) 5. More than one rate for impor ts 6. More than one rate for expor ts C. Prescription of Currency D. Bilateral Payments Arrangemen ts 1. w i th members 2. w i th nonmembers E. Paymen ts Restrictions 1. Restrictions on paymen ts for cu r rent transactions5 2. Restrictions on paymen ts for capital transac t ions5-6 *^ F. Cost-Related Impo rt Res tr ic t ions 1. Impo rt surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender Requ irement for Export Proceeds .2•3c - - s e n o d n i a - _ - - 1 - D o4 a - - T3 C COe - 13 2C/5 - X3 >> o> - .8 3 - - aetfa S3>-» - - J o r n a d D - 1 <L> W D - § o ^ K u w a t i - - d 0)& I "w "a jin i 2 _ L n o n a b e - - L s e o t o h - L i e b i r a - - L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y M a c s a g a d a r M a l a w i D - - M a l y a s i a - - M a l d i s e v - - 13 - For key and footnotes, see page 501. 498 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • — • • • • — O V 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 - 1 111 111 11 11111 11 1 11 1 1111 11I1 11 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1i 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 ' I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I I 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 I 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ~ 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 11 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ii i 1 1 1 1 1 1ii 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 iI 1 1 1 1 1 ii 1 1 1ii 1 1A i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1i 1 1 1 1 1I 1ii 1 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 a 1 1i 1 1 1 1 1 1 a 1 1 1I 1 w 1111 1 1 111 a 1 1 1 1 1'ii 1 1 1 1 11 11 11 1 11 1 Ii 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 11 1ii i 1 1 1 1 1 1 11i 1 1i 1i 1 1i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1i 1 1 1 1 11 1 1i 1 1 11 1 1i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ii 1 1 1 1i 1 1 11 11 I1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I.1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 A 1 1 * 1 1 I i I A 1 I I 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 A I l 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! ! 1 1 1 1iiA 1il 1A 1 1 1 l 1 1 i' 1 1 1 1 1 M a t l a M u a t i r n a i a M u a i t i r u s M o c x e i M o r o c c o N a p e l N e t e h l r d n a s N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e N e w Z a e l d n a N i a c r a u g a N i e g r N i e g i r a N o r w y a m O n a P k a i s t n a P a n a m a P a u p a N e w G u i a e n P a r y a u g a P e r u h P i l i p p i s e n o P t r a g u l Q a t a r w R a d n a S . t L c u i a S . t V i n e c n t d n a G r d a n e i s e n S o a T o m e d n a P i r c n i e p S d u a i A r b a i a S a g e n e l S e h c y e l l s e S i e r r a L e n o e o p a g n S i r e o S l o m n o s I l d n a s o S m a i l a I * * $ 5 £ O C 1 1 t o * " 3 *^»I4f t s r8 I T|§ *§- 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as at date of A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII 2. Article XIV B. Exchange Arrangement 1. Exchange rate maintained w i th in relatively narrow margins4 in terms of: (a) U.S. dollar (6) pound sterling (c) French f ranc (d) South African rand, Spanish peseta, or Indian rupee (e) a cooperative exchange arrangement (under mu tual in terven t ion system) (/) a composite of currencies (g) a set of indicators 2. Exchange rate not maintained w i th in relatively narrow margins4 as in (a)-(g) above, or otherwise determined (see country pages) 3. Separate exchange rates for some or all capital transactions and /or some or all invisibles 4. Import rate(s) different f rom export rate(s) 5. More than one rate for impor ts 6. More than one rate for exports C. Prescription of Currency D. Bilateral Paymen ts Arrangements 1. w i th members 2. with nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for current transactions5 2. Res tr ic t ions on paymen ts for capital t ransac t ions5-6 F. Cost-Related Impo rt Res tr ic t ions 1. Impo rt surcharges 2. Advance impo rt deposits G. Surrender Requ i rement for Expo rt Proceeds .§ < £ 5S O C/5 _ ^g "53& C/5 _ 1 j t/5 1 C/3 u S i r a n m e S w z a l i d n a S w n e d e 1 ,£> cti < C .2I n a z n a ^ i a a h P l i d n a 1 i r f n i d a d d n a T o g a b o f n u i s i a ft^ 3. 03 "S % U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e o 1 2 *aw *S U n t i d e S t a t s e U e p p r V o t l a U r y a u g u V a u n a t u 3 D V e u z e n e l a V i e t N a m D W s e t e r n S a m a o - 500 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (concluded) country pages)2 & & 6 Q 0 £ a 0> £ 1.£)4co £ a i v a l s o g u Y 2 3 a i b m a Z I 1 1 > | I | 1 e w b a b m i Z 1 | > - - - - D n Key and Footnotes • indicates that the specified practice is a fea ture of the exchange and trade system. — indicates that the specified practice is not a feature of the system. D indicates that the composite is the SDR. 1 The list includes two nonmetro- politan territories (Hong Kong and the Netherlands Antilles) for which the respective members have ac- cepted the Fund's Articles of Agree- ment. Exchange practices indicated in individual countries do not necessarily apply to all external transactions. 2 December 31, 1981. 3 Country has not notified the Fund on the acceptance of either Article VIII or Article XIV. 4 Margins of approximately 2.25 per cent on either side of parity. It should be noted that existence of a separate rate does not necessarily imply a multiple currency practice under Fund jurisdiction. 6 Restrictions (i.e., official action directly affecting the availability or cost of exchange, or involving undue delay) on payments to member countries, other than restrictions imposed for security reasons under Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51), adopted August 14, 1952. 6 Resident-owned funds. 501 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • — — — • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution List of Abbreviations* A f r ican, Caribbean, and Pacific State signatories of the Lome Convention w i th the EC Asian Clearing Union Asian Monetary Unit Association of South East Asian Nations Central Bank of West Afr ican States (Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest) Bank of Central Afr ican States (Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale) Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union Central American Common Market Caribbean Common Market Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance European Community United Nations, Economic Commission for Africa East Caribbean Currency Authority East Caribbean Common Market Economic Community of West Afr ican States (CEDEAO) European Coal and Steel Community European Currency Unit European Free Trade Association European Monetary Cooperation Fund (FECOM) European Monetary Fund European Monetary System European Unit of Account European Atomic Energy Community General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Generalized System of Preferences International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) In te rna t ional Development Association In terna t ional Finance Corporation In te rna t ional Monetary Fund La t in American Free Trade Association La t in American Integration Association (ALADI) London in terbank offered rate Mu l t if iber Arrangement Most favored nation Mu l t i la te ral Trade Negotiations Organization of African Unity Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Organization for European Economic Cooperation Special drawing right South Pacific Regional Trade and Cooperation Agreement Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (Union Douaniere et Economique de 1'Afrique Centrale) United Nations West A f r ican Economic Community (CEAO) ACP ACU AMU ASEAN BCEAO BEAC BLEU CACM CARICOM CCCN CEPGL CMEA EC EGA ECCA ECCM ECOWAS ECSC ECU EFTA EMCF EMF EMS EUA EURATOM GATT GSP IBRD IDA IFC IMF LAFTA LAIA LIBOR MFA MFN MTN OAU OECD OEEC SDR SPARTECA UDEAC UN WAEC *This list does not include abbreviations of purely national institutions mentioned in the country pages. 503 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 