 N I N E T E E N TH A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1 9 68 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IN T E RNA T IONAL MON E TARY FUND N I N E T E E N TH A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1968 Washington, D. C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund May 13, 1968 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Nineteenth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ PIERRE-PAUL SCHWEITZER Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Page PART I in Restrictive I. Introduction II. Main Developments Practices Trade and Payments Restrictions Multiple Currency Practices Import Surcharges, Advance Deposits, and Export Subsidies Bilateral Payments Arrangements Measures Affecting Capital III. Regional Arrangements 1 2 2 3 4 5 5 6 PART II Explanatory Note to Country Surveys Country Surveys Afghanistan Algeria Argentina Australia Austria Belgium-Luxembourg Bolivia Brazil Burma Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Central African Republic Ceylon Chad Chile China, Republic of Colombia Congo (Brazzaville) Congo, Democratic Republic of Costa Rica Cyprus Dahomey Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador El Salvador Ethiopia Finland France Gabon 11 15 18 24 29 32 36 41 43 54 56 58 63 68 70 75 80 85 92 97 105 110 113 1-17 120 125 129 132 136 139 141 146 152 vn The Gambia Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Guatemala Guinea Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kenya Korea Kuwait Laos Lebanon Liberia Libya Malagasy Republic Malawi Malaysia Mali Mauritania Mexico Morocco Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Pakistan Panama Paraguay Peru . Page 158 160 164 169 175 178 181 184 185 186 189 193 199 207 212 215 219 223 229 234 239 244 247 251 256 260 263 265 266 269 274 278 282 286 291 293 298 301 306 308 313 315 320 325 328 335 337 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Philippines Portugal Rwanda Saudi Arabia Senegal Sierra Leone Singapore Somalia South Africa Spain Sudan Surinam Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Tanzania CONTENTS Page 344 350 355 357 358 363 366 370 374 381 386 390 392 396 399 405 Thailand Togo Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Uganda United Arab Republic United Kingdom United States Upper Volta Uruguay Venezuela Viet-Nam Yugoslavia Zambia Analytical Appendix Page 410 413 418 423 428 435 440 445 457 465 470 473 475 480 486 490 V l ll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction During the period under review severe pressures developed on the world payments system. World trade continued to rise in 1967, but the increase of 4l/2 per cent over the 1966 total was less than half that achieved in the preceding year. Although the combined trade balance of the industrial coun- tries changed little from 1966 to 1967, there was a serious deterioration in the trade balance of the United Kingdom. The United States con- tinued to earn a large export surplus in 1967, but a higher outflow of capital led to a substantial increase in the over-all balance of payments deficit. These developments in the external accounts of the United Kingdom and the United States were among the major causes of the pressure on the world payments system during 1967. Following the continuing deterioration in the United Kingdom's position, on November 18, 1967 the United Kingdom proposed and the Fund concurred in a change in the par value of the pound sterling from US$2.80 to US$2.40. The United Kingdom later was granted a stand-by arrangement by the Fund and undertook a series of domestic measures aimed at improving its inter- national payments position and rebuilding confi- dence in sterling. Following the devaluation of sterling, some other countries —Ceylon, Cyprus, Denmark, Guyana, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Jamaica, Malawi, Nepal, New Zealand, Sierra Leone, Spain, and Trinidad and Tobago—also proposed changes in the par value of their cur- rencies. In addition, changes were proposed in the par values of some nonmetropolitan currencies and in the official exchange rate of The Gambia. The Fund concurred in these proposals. In all the above cases the devaluation of sterling created or aggravated a fundamen tal disequilibrium. Earlier in 1967, Finland and Ghana had each proposed a downward adjustment of the par values of their currencies. These various changes in the parity of their currency helped the countries concerned to avoid exchange or trade restrictions which would have strained the international monetary system fu r the r. In mid-1967 the participants in the sixth round of trade negotiations (the Kennedy Round) of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade signed detailed agreements to implement broad undertakings on the reduction of barriers to world trade that had been announced on May 15, 1967. It was estimated that there would be a 35 per cent reduction in import duties applicable to some US$40 billion of world trade in industrial products over the next five years. Reduced ta r i f fs on agri- cultural products were also agreed by negotiating countries, although on a relatively minor scale. In some countries tar iff reductions went into effect on Janua ry 1, 1968. Following the abolition by France of exchange control at the beginning of 1967, those countries of the French Franc Area that have established special financial arrangements with France through "Operations Accounts" with the French Treasury took parallel action on July 1, 1967.1 They also abolished any exchange taxes still in force. Other- wise dur ing 1967 there was no large movement in the direction of easing restrictions, nor on the other hand was there a major retrogression. The trend toward greater reliance on import surcharges and advance import deposits continued, and on bal- ance the use of multiple currency practices has increased. The scope of bilateralism appears not to have changed appreciably, although the number of agreements between member countries was reduced. Many countries tightened controls over current invisibles, in some instances cutting back exchange allocations for travel. With regard to capital controls, on January 1, 1968 the United States introduced mandatory con- trols on direct investment abroad including not only restraints on new investment but also restraints on the accumulation of capital abroad by requirements to repatriate earnings. The existing voluntary programs for the restraint on lending abroad by financial institutions were tightened. The United Kingdom continued to maintain mandatory controls over outflows of capital, although blocked sterling accounts were eliminated, and certain other industrial countries fu r ther liberalized formal controls. 1 These countries are Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. They have often been referred to as CFA franc countries. The name of the currency of the Malagasy Republic, however, was changed to Malagasy f ranc in 1963, and Mali began issuing the Mali franc in 1962. Early in 1968, Mali established an Operations Account with the French Treasury and abolished exchange control. 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS During the period under review three coun- tries —Denmark (May 1 ), Norway (May 11), and Bolivia (June 5) —assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4. (For a discus- sion of the implications of Article VIII status, see the Eighteenth Annual Report, p. 2.) At the end of the period under review 31 Fund members had assumed the above obligations, out of a total membership of 107. However, several countries that had assumed these obligations found it neces- sary to request Fund approval for the introduc- tion or reintroduction of certain restrictive measures. II. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices Trade and Payments Restrictions Following the abolition of exchange control by France, the "Operations Account" countries of the French Franc Area took corresponding action on July 1, 1967. While in general exchange control was abolished completely, some of these countries maintained existing bilateral payments agreements 2 or payments restrictions imposed for security reasons and some maintained declaration requirements in respect of the export of domestic banknotes or approval requirements for the import and export of gold. All "Operations Account" countries now apply controls to certain types of capital transactions (but not to the related pay- ments) with countries other than France and other "Operations Account" countries, such controls involving either declaration or approval. In these countries payments and transfers to French Franc Area countries were already unrestricted prior to July 1, 1967. The principal effect of the measures taken on that date was the elimination of the prescription of currency and surrender require- ments and, subject to the limited reservations noted above, of all restrictions on payments. The elimination of exchange restrictions and controls did not by itself affect these countries' restrictions on imports from sources outside the French Franc Area. It is to be noted, however, that the "Opera- tions Account" countries, all of which are asso- ciated with the European Economic Community 2 Most of these agreements, however, are inoperative. 2 (EEC) by the Yaounde Convention,3 continued the progressive dismantling of restrictions on imports from EEC countries other than France and, in certain cases, also increased the liberaliza- tion of imports from other sources. The global quotas opened by certain "Operations Account" countries for imports from countries outside the French Franc Area have not always been fully taken up. Major changes in exchange and trade restric- tions have been made by several other countries. In mid-July 1967, Uruguay imposed wide-ranging import prohibitions and commercial banks were not allowed to sell exchange for invisibles. From November 6, 1967, when a major exchange rate depreciation took place, this policy was reversed and the exchange system has become virtually free of restrictions. In conjunction with a sub- stantial depreciation of the exchange rate in March 1967, Argentina also eliminated virtually all restrictions on payments; at the same time a new tar iff schedule providing for a considerable reduc- tion in duties and a simplification in the tariff structure was adopted and nearly all import pro- hibitions were eliminated. In connection with a complete overhaul of the exchange system and a substantial depreciation of the exchange rate in June 1967, the Democratic Republic of Congo considerably reduced restrictions on current trans- actions. In a series of measures taken during the course of the year, Korea liberalized the importa- tion of a large number of items previously restricted or prohibited, and there was some liberalization in respect of current invisibles. In July 1967 and Janua ry 1968 Indonesia reformed its exchange system and simplified the exchange rate structure. Payments for permitted imports are free of licensing requirements, although payments for a number of current invisibles still require prior approval. At the beginning of 1967 Yugo- slavia revised its trade and payments system, liberalizing a considerable proportion of imports from convertible currency countries, easing restric- tions on many current invisible payments, and 3 The agreement between the six EEC countries and the 18 Associated African and Malagasy States (Burundi, Cameroon, Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), Democratic Republic of Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauri- tania, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, Somalia, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES abolishing surrender requirements for most foreign exchange receipts. The ma jor indus tr ial countries, on the whole, continued the process of dismantling quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports. The EEC countries elimi- nated quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports f rom all sources of cane sugar, beet sugar, and many oils and fa ts. Several other countries, e.g., Chad, the Malagasy Republic, Mau r i tan ia, Morocco, Tunisia, and Zambia, reduced quan t i ta t ive restrictions or applied a more liberal licensing policy. The scope of these measures varied f rom minor modifica- tions in quota allocation or the licensing system to more substantial measures of liberalization and the reduction of import discrimination. Some industrialized countries, e.g., Aus tr ia, Belgium, F in land, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, and Sweden, continued the process of ex tend ing liberalization to imports f rom Eastern European countries. However, among other member countries, some, e.g., Ceylon, the Dominican Republic, Iraq, Jordan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Pak is tan, Panama, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, and Venezuela, tended in va ry ing degrees to make greater use of quan t i ta t ive restrictions or to tighten policies for import payments. A number of coun- tries ma in ta ined severe over-all restrictions owing to balance of payments difficulties. In particular instances the application of prohibitions or the t igh ten ing of import policy was motivated by political ra ther than economic considerations. A few countries closely affected by developments in the political s i tua t ion in the Middle East tightened restrictions on trade and paymen ts for a time but some rescinded these measures a f ter a short in t e rv a l. Several indus tr ial countries strengthened res t ra in ts on tex t i le imports f rom less developed countries, whether through the un i la teral imposi- tion or t igh ten ing of restrictions or through the negotiation of bilateral agreements w i th the pro- ducer countries. Among Article V I II countries, the United Kingdom restricted imports of "near- butters" (bu t ter oil, bu t ter f a t, resolidified bu t te r, and dehydrated or anhydrous bu t te r) and meat, France restricted imports of wine, and Germany has tightened the program of voluntary restraint on domestic sales of heating oil. In July 1967, the Dominican Republic prohibited the import of a number of goods un t il the end of the year and also established import quotas for certain com- modities including household articles, consumer durable goods, and alcoholic beverages. While a few countries, including Brazil, Colom- bia, and the Democratic Republic of Congo, liberalized certain payments for invisibles, a greater number of countries tightened their control measures with regard to travel abroad, e.g., Algeria, Brazil, Chile, El Salvador, Ghana, Ice- land, Jamaica, New Zealand, Nigeria, Turkey, and the United Kingdom, by reducing allocations or by maintaining these at the same level in local currency terms, af ter devaluation, or by increasing travel taxes. The United Nations Security Council called for selective manda tory sanctions on Rhodesia in 1966 4 following the declaration of independence in 1965. A number of countries have since intro- duced additional trade and payments restrictions on transactions with Rhodesia. Similarly, the number of countries that ma in ta in for noneco- nomic reasons restrictions on their trade and paymen ts with South A f r ica or specified other countries appears to have increased. Multiple Currency Practices Over the years there has been a substantial reduction of complex multiple currency systems, but more recently there has been some resurgence of multiple currency practices, which in one form or another are now applied in 28 member coun- tries. In the process of moving away from multi- ple currency practices some countries have abolished exchange taxes or import surcharges only to shift the incidence of taxes to a different base, e.g., export taxes or import surcharges. In some of these cases, however, tax rates have been lowered. Major simplifications or un if ica t ions of multiple rate structures took place in the Democratic Republic of Congo and Uruguay. Taxes on speci- fied foreign exchange transactions were eliminated in Somalia, but were raised in Chile. Those "Operations Account" countries of the French Franc Area that previously applied exchange taxes to transactions with countries outside the French Franc Area (Central African Republic, Congo (Brazzav i l le), Dahomey, Togo, and Upper Volta) 4 Resolution 232 (1966 ), December 16, 1966. 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS abolished them. Pakistan, after adding to the complexity of the existing complex system of multiple exchange rates in 1967, reduced the number of effective rates af ter the devaluation of sterling, and to some degree depreciated virtu- ally the entire rate structure except for the official rate. Peru, a member country that has assumed the obligations of Article VIII, reintroduced a dual exchange system under which most exchange transactions take place in a fluctuating exchange certificate market where the rate for the Peruvian sol in terms of U.S. dollars is stabilized by the Central Bank at a less depreciated level than in the d ra ft market. Another member country under Article VIII, Costa Rica, limited the sale of exchange at the official rate, leaving access to the free market unrestricted. In both countries there was an increase in the volume of transactions handled at the more depreciated rate. Other important developments were the increased reliance on the official exchange market in Ecuador and the simplification of the rate structure in Indonesia. A number of countries, including Chile, Colom- bia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salva- dor, Ghana, Guatemala, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Turkey, and the United Arab Republic, maintained restric- tions on travel abroad by subjecting tourism, and sometimes other travel also, to taxes, or by requiring prior deposits on the payments involved. In a few cases these measures gave rise to effec- tive selling rates that constituted multiple currency practices. On the other hand, the application of a tourist exchange rate has been infrequent. Import Surcharges, Advance Deposits, and Export Subsidies The number of countries employing import sur- charges and advance import deposits has continued to rise. During the period under review, relatively low surcharges on most imports were introduced in Colombia, Malaysia, and Panama, while Somalia imposed a small tax on all franco valuta 5 imports and raised the statistical tax on imports. In addition, the Dominican Republic, Mali, Paki- stan, and Paraguay increased the rates of sur- charges or import taxes. In Turkey the stamp 3 W i thout o f f ic ial exchange. 4 duty on imports was raised from 5 per cent to 10 per cent ad valorem in February 1967 and to 15 per cent in March 1968. New advance deposit requirements were applied in the Philippines, where mandatory cash margin deposits ranging from 25 per cent to 150 per cent on the opening of import letters of credit were introduced. Mandatory deposits were also insti- tuted in Nicaragua. The Colombian policy of gradually decreasing advance deposits was reversed in the first months of 1967. However, later in the year several percentages were again reduced. In Turkey, some advance deposits were raised, mainly for U.S. AID imports. On the other hand a few countries decreased their reliance on such measures: Argentina, Burund i, Ecuador, and Greece reduced the per- centage of advance deposits or their coverage. Ghana abolished advance deposits, following the devaluation of the cedi. In connection with the devaluation of the Congo franc, the Democratic Republic of Congo eliminated a 10 per cent sur- charge as well as an advance deposit scheme, both of which had been introduced recently. The 5 per cent customs clearance tax in Brazil was abolished at the end of 1967, but the loss of revenue was compensated by a similar increase in the general ta r i f f. In Uruguay, the m in imum surcharge was lowered f rom 30 per cent to 10 per cent and the prepayment deposit requirements were modified in such a way that the former levels of 50 per cent to 100 per cent were largely discontinued and new rates of 200 per cent and over were applied to various import categories under specific condi- tions. In Guyana and the Syrian Arab Republic advance deposits were eliminated in October. A wide variety of arrangements are used to encourage exports. Such arrangements include the granting of export credits on concessionary terms under general policy directives of the authorities, refunds of import duties in respect of materials used for exports, and certain fiscal mea- sures, including refunds and rebates. Other mea- sures include special arrangements intended to reinforce the growth of export industries, for example, investment grants, investment loans on concessionary terms, marketing support, and pref- erential treatment with regard to imports, business travel, and publicity expenditure connected with the production process in such industries. Direct ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES subsidies for specific exports, financed f rom the budget, are also employed. A number of member countries support exports through multiple cur- rency practices, including export bonus schemes whereby exporters are granted import entitlements, as in Ceylon, Colombia, and Pakistan. Bilateral Payments Arrangements Since bilateralism is likely to involve discrimina- tory restrictions on current payments the Fund has continuously advocated its elimination. The Fund has emphasized this policy in connection with Article XIV and Article VIII consultations and stand-by arrangements and has provided tech- nical as well as financial assistance toward the termination of bilateral payments agreements. The period covered by this report did not show any major change in the number of bilateral payments arrangements in operation. The total number of agreements between members decreased by 6, while that between members and nonmembers remained unchanged. At the end of 1967 there were 80 bilateral arrangements in operation between Fund members and 229 between mem- bers and nonmembers. Of these latter, 187 agree- ments were maintained with Eastern European countries, 19 with Mainland China, 10 with other state trading countries in Asia, and 8 with Cuba. The greater part of the total of bilateral payments agreements is maintained by only a few Fund members. Sixteen members maintain almost three four ths of all agreements; their share in world trade is relatively small. Measures Affecting Capital As already noted, following the measures taken by France in January 1967 to abolish exchange controls, the countries linked with France through "Operations Accounts" enacted similar legislation effective from July of that year. In general these countries now allow both current and capital payments to be made freely to any destination. At the same time foreign and domestic securities of all types may be physically imported or exported and transactions between residents and nonresi- dents in personal real estate are unrestricted. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation and may be freely disposed of. Controls are still applied to certain capital trans- actions but not to the related payments; these include controls over borrowing abroad, inward and outward direct investment, the issue or sale of foreign securities in the domestic market, and, in some of these countries, over lending abroad. With some exceptions for securities, these con- trols are not applicable in relation to France and other "Operations Account" countries. The United Kingdom abolished blocked sterling accounts in April 1967, and all funds held in or previously eligible for credit only to these accounts became eligible for credit to convertible external accounts. As a result the switch sterling market ceased to function. Thereafter, purchases of ster- ling securities by nonresidents of the Sterling Area were required to be settled in external sterling. Following the action of the United Kingdom, certain other Sterling Area countries, such as Jamaica, Malaysia, and Singapore, also abolished the blocked accounts they had maintained for residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Some of these countries now make official exchange available for the transfer of balances and new funds previously ineligible for transfer. Sev- eral other member countries took action respect- ing capital. The principal instances were the fol- lowing. Argentina eliminated all restrictions on capital transfers. Japan liberalized regulations governing inward direct investment by establishing lists of industries for which inward investment is automatically approved and by simplifying the procedures for securing approval of such invest- ment. Jordan enacted legislation to encourage for- eign investment by providing for the authoriza- tion, without limit, of regular remittance of profits from approved foreign investments. Indonesia put into effect a new foreign investment law, which provided incentives for foreign capital and guar- anteed the remittance of profits and principal. The United States maintained the Interest Equalization Tax in 1967, amending and extend- ing it until July 1969. The amendment increased the max imum rates permissible and gave the President discretionary authority to vary the tax rates up to those limits; the maximum was set at a level that would increase the effective cost of borrowing by nonresidents by 1% per cent a year, but the levels chosen corresponded to an increase of this cost by 1 % per cent a year. The exemption for Japan was broadened. The United States also continued during 1967 its voluntary 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS programs to restrain lending and investments abroad, and late in 1967 new measures implying further intensification of the voluntary programs in 1968 were announced. On January 1, 1968 mandatory controls were introduced by the United States for the first time on direct investment abroad. Under the new regulations all countries of the world are divided into three scheduled categories and limitations are applied to the annual direct investment transac- tions of each U.S. direct investor with each scheduled group of countries, the most severe restrictions being on investments in developed countries judged not to be dependent on sub- stantial continuing inflows of U.S. capital, i.e., chiefly those of continental Western Europe. Separate regulations specified the amounts of capital that may be transferred, the share of earnings that must be repatriated, and the level of liquid foreign assets that may be maintained abroad. Canada, which already was exempted from the provisions of the Interest Equalization Tax concerning new and original issues, was also exempted from the new balance of payments pro- grams in March 1968. The United Kingdom's voluntary restraint pro- gram for investments in specified Sterling Area countries was maintained without change and the mandatory controls over outward direct and port- folio investment remained virtually unchanged. The Capital Issues Committee was abolished. III. Regional Arrangements The members of the European Economic Community (EEC) made fur ther progress toward achieving the aims laid down in the Treaty of Rome. In terms of institutional arrangements, this occurred through the establishment of a single Commission of the European Communities. On February 9, 1967 the Council of Ministers of the EEC adopted directives to harmonize the Common Market's turnover tax system. By Janu- ary 1, 1970 a single tax on the value added at each stage of manufacture and distribution, generally comparable to that already in effect in France and Germany, is to replace the system of cumu- lative taxes. On July 1, 1967, tar iffs on imports f rom EEC countries were reduced by 5 per cent for industrial 6 goods and by 10 per cent for a number of agri- cultural goods. On July 1, 1968 the remaining 15 per cent of ta r i f fs on internally traded industrial goods and the last 25 or 30 per cent of tariffs on internally traded agricultural goods will be abol- ished. From the same date, the Common External Tariff will come fu l ly into effect. On July 1, 1967, the common price for grains entered into force. A single market for cereals, pork, poultry, eggs, and oil seeds was introduced also on July 1, 1967, by establishing a common price and a system of corrective measures to estab- lish income guarantees for producers. Regula- tions for the marketing of sugar within the Com- mon Market and for external trade in sugar were adopted for the year 1967/68 and went into effect on July 1, 1967. The Common Market also accelerated the tariff reductions negotiated in the Kennedy Round for tropical agricultural products and some raw materials that are of particular interest to developing countries. A stabilization fund for tropical products of the 18 African asso- ciated members of the EEC was proposed in December 1967 at a meeting of the parliamentary conference of the Yaounde Convention. On December 1, 1967 tariff quotas for specified Turkish exports were increased substantially and some tariff cuts were agreed. The Council of Ministers of the EEC approved a detailed mandate to the Commission for negotia- tions with Spain, which would aim at the creation of a free trade area between Spain and the EEC. Talks between the EEC, Morocco, and Tunisia were continued. In March 1967 Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda requested a fur ther round of formal negotiations for association with the EEC. Dur- ing the period under review, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Denmark, and Norway applied for mem- bership, and Sweden requested negotiations with a view to participation in the Community in a manner compatible with its neutrality, and the negotiations with Austria have continued. Israel requested negotiations with a view to a new type of arrangement with the EEC af ter the com- mercial agreement expired. By the end of 1966, five member countries6 of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) 0 Aus t r ia, Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland, and United K ingdom. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REG IONAL ARRANGEMENTS had abolished t a r i f fs on all indus tr ial and a few agricultural imports from other member countries and, with minor exceptions, had dismantled all quantitative restrictions on industrial products of EFTA origin. Portugal reduced its customs t a r i f fs to 60 per cent of the initial level on January 1, 1967, and Finland removed the rema in ing 10 per cent of t a r i f fs and quotas on EFTA imports on December 31, 1967, thus completing the dis- man t l ing of these barriers three years ahead of the original timetable. Norway made a fu r ther 10 per cent cut on the few remaining industrial items not already duty-free for EFTA, which left them at 20 per cent of their original level. As of J anu a ry 1, 1968, most agr icu l tural products were still subject to the original national customs ta r i f f s, and many agricultural commodities are still subject to quota, even within EFTA; several bilateral agr icu l tural agreements between EFTA countries contain provisions regarding these quan t i ta t ive restrictions. The Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) made some fu r ther progress in 1967. On February 8, 1967 Bolivia formally accepted the provisions of the Treaty of Montevideo and became the eleventh member.7 At the meeting of American Presidents in Pun ta del Este in April 1967, it was proposed to accelerate the process of converting LAFTA into a common marke t, to coordinate economic policies and ins trumen ts and to harmon ize national laws to the extent required for integration, and to promote sectoral and temporary subregional agreements. In June 1967 delegates of the member states recommended that several steps be taken to implement the goals set by the Declaration of Presidents. Subsequently, groups of experts studied various issues, among them the financial implica- tions of integration and the possibility of establish- ing a fund to provide the necessary resources. An Inter-American Export Promotion Center was established. Venezuela, which had become a member of LAFTA in 1966, began trad ing on preferential terms with Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and U ruguay on September 1, 1967, and 7 The other members are Argen t ina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Pa raguay, Peru, U ruguay, and Venezuela. w i th Argentina, Brazil, and Ecuador on Janua ry 1, 1968. Contacts between LAFTA and the Central American Common Market (CACM) were intensified, in order to accomplish the declared goal of a Latin American Common Market. For this purpose, a special coordinating committee was established by the foreign ministers of LAFTA and the CACM in September 1967. The multilateral clearing system agreed upon by the Central Banks of the LAFTA countries went into effect in July 1966, and by the end of 1967, nine central banks were participating8 in bilateral agreements providing for reciprocal lines of credit. Most of the trade-related payments between the participating countries were channeled through the multilateral clearing. Some central banks permitted commercial banks to carry out the respective operations without prior authoriza- tion. Six members of LAFTA 9 (the Andean Group) decided to form a customs union. The decision was provisionally approved by the foreign min- isters of LAFTA on August 29, 1967. The foreign ministers of the Andean Group are considering proposals for accelerated reductions in customs duties on a great number of products and a com- mon trade policy vis-a-vis the other LAFTA countries. The three members of the Caribbean Free Trade Association (CARIFTA), Antigua, Bar- bados, and Guyana, decided in October 1967 to remove by May 1, 1968 import duties and quantitative restrictions on all products traded among them. During a conference held in Bar- bados in October 1967, the CARIFTA Agreement was accepted as a basis, with modifications, for an extended Caribbean Free Trade Area. The five West Indian islands of Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent decided to set up an Eastern Caribbean Common Market (ECCM), starting by mid-1968, as an extension of CARIFTA. The five countries were 8 The participating central banks are those of the fo l low ing countries: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, and Peru. Vene- zuela joined on May 1, 1968. 0 Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela. and 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS to become a customs union within one year, with a common external ta r i f f. A Treaty for East African Cooperation between Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda came into effect on December 1, 1967, providing for the creation of an East Afr ican Community (EAC) with its headquarters in Arusha (Tanzan ia ). The main points of the treaty in respect of trade and exchange controls are a pledge to continue a com- mon customs t a r i f f, with certain exceptions, and un iform excise tar iffs, and to abolish intraregional quantitative import restrictions, while permitting the introduction of intraregional charges on move- ments of goods, the so-called transfer taxes. Broadly speaking, exchange and trade restrictions maintained by these three countries in respect of countries outside the area remain unchanged. The joint operation of railroads, airlines, harbors, and postal and customs administration continues within the framework of the East Afr ican Com- mun i ty. The Customs Union of West Afr ican States (UDEAO ), established by the Abidjan Treaty of June 3, 1966, became operative in 1967.10 The Union provides for a common external ta r i f f, which imposes discriminatory duties on imports from outside the French Franc Area and EEC countries. A m in imum ad valorem tar iff is applied on imports f rom most-favored-nation countries, including most Western European coun- tries and the United States. A general t a r i f f, three times as high as the m in imum ta r i f f, is applied to imports f rom other countries. The Central Afr ican Economic and Customs Union (UDEAC) made some fu r ther progress in effor ts to un i fy trade taxes. It enacted a regime of a single tax on industrial production intended for intraregional trade. A petroleum refinery jointly owned by the member states and foreign companies was established in Gabon to serve the entire UDEAC region. In February 1968, the creation of a union of Central A f r ican states was announced under the name of Union of Central African States. The initial participants were the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Early in April 1968, the Charter of the Union was signed by the three initial participants. The charter requires ratification. Twelve West Afr ican coun t r iesll signed an agreement on May 4, 1967 to establish a West African Economic Community. The aim of the Community is to secure cooperation between members in developing industrial and agricultural projects and in formulating agreements on the removal of t a r i f fs and other factors restricting regional trade. Under a Regional Cooperation and Develop- ment Treaty signed by Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey in April 1967, a special payments system was established, initially for a period of two years. Each member extended a credit line of US$2 mil- lion to each of the other participants. Regular compensations take place once a year, with 50 per cent of the balances due being settled in con- vertible exchange within 30 days and the remain- ing 50 per cent being carried forward to the fol- lowing accounting period. Amounts in excess of the established credit lines have to be settled in convertible currencies w i th in 30 days. Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand established an Association of South- east Asian Nations (ASEAN) on August 8, 1967 to improve economic cooperation. 10 Formally it came into force on December 15, 1966. Its seven members are Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mali, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta. 11 Dahomey, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mali, Mauri- tania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo, and Upper Volta. 8 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys In Part II, individual surveys of the exchange systems of the member countries of the Fund, including three nonmetropolitan territories, are given. The exchange systems of two other coun- tries which were not members of the Fund at the time this Report was written are also described. In general, the surveys relate to the exchange systems as at the end of 1967. For a few countries the surveys relate to the exchange systems at a later date or include references to significant develop- ments which took place early in 1968. The description of an exchange system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and juris- diction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restrictive systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the surveys include references to such features as import licensing, advance deposit requirements, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the sec- tion "Changes during 1967" may include refer- ences to certain developments that have a direct impact on international transactions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as major revisions of import tariffs or developments relating to regional cooperation. A standardized framework has been employed in draf t ing the surveys: each system is described under similar headings, and each country survey contains a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes which took place in the restrictive system during 1967 and, for a few countries, the early months of 1968. An indication of the subject matter to be found under these headings is given in the following paragraphs. Under Exchange Rate System, the par value, where one has been agreed with the Fund, and/or the official exchange rates are given, the latter usually in terms of the U.S. dollar, together with a reference to other rates which may be essential to the country's exchange rate system. In the surveys of certain countries with multiple exchange rate systems, further details are given in the Table of Exchange Rates (see below). The rates quoted are those effective on December 31, 1967, unless stated otherwise. Under Exchange Control Territory, the extent of applicability of the exchange control is explained when it covers two or more sovereign or auto- nomous territories whose residents have common rights and obligations under the exchange control regulations. Under Administration of Control, some indica- tion is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for practical working purposes. Under Prescription of Currency, the require- ments affecting the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries are described. Where a country has concluded payments agreements with other coun- tries or monetary areas, the terms of these agree- ments often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. For a country whose currency has international im- portance, the prescription of currency arrange- ments involve the use of its own currency held by nonresidents in accounts with authorized banks. Payments to and from such nonresident accounts are then regarded as equivalent to settlements in foreign currency. Under Nonresident Accounts, an indication is given of the manner in which the country regards the accounts in its currency of account holders not regarded as resident in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types are described. Under Imports and Import Payments, import licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of the additional requirements imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license," which is used in some countries, indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing require- 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS ments, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be either given freely, or restricted in its issue, according to administrative decisions. The expres- sion "global quota" is employed in the sense that many countries now use it, to indicate quotas that are not necessarily universal in their application but instead may apply to a group of countries, e.g., global quotas for imports from countries in the European Economic Community. Under Payments for Invisibles, action in the matter of permitting payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles is described briefly, together with any limitations on the export of foreign and domestic banknotes. For some coun- tries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Under Exports and Export Proceeds, the appli- cation of export licensing, where this is operative, is indicated, together with a brief outline of the requirements imposed on the proceeds derived from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" is used to indicate that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell his foreign exchange against local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank or to a com- mercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries there is a require- ment that the exchange be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions governing exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the import of foreign and domestic banknotes are described. Under Capital, a general indication of the special arrangements or limitations attached to interna- tional receipts and payments in respect of capital items is given. Where special arrangements for foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. Under Gold, the principal provisions are sum- marized that govern the holding, negotiation, and import and export of gold coins and gold in other forms. In the Table of Exchange Rates, which is pro- vided for most countries having a multiple currency practice involving more than two rate levels, the exchange rates effective on a specified date are given. For convenience, the data in these tables are in terms of local currency units per U.S. dollar. The tables include effective rates arising from the negotiation of percentages of the total exchange at different rates, the imposition of exchange taxes, the negotiation of exchange certificates, etc. Under Changes during 1967, the more signifi- cant changes in the country's restrictive system during 1967 are presented in chronological order. Important measures made effective in the early months of 1968 are indicated at the end of certain surveys or in footnotes to the text. 12 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Country Surveys ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0197482 gram of fine gold per Afghani or Af 45.00 = US$1. The Afghan- istan Bank (Da Afghanistan Bank, the central bank) charges commissions ranging from %0 of 1 per cent to % of 1 per cent on exchange trans- actions. The official buying rate applies to the proceeds of exports of karakul, wool, and cotton, and to 30 per cent of foreign exchange receipts of the Government for the financing of the salaries in afghanis of foreign experts. The official selling rate applies to foreign exchange payments by the Government. All other transactions take place at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaar. Subject to possible day-to-day deviations, the Afghanistan Bank maintains its free market rate within Af 2 per US$1 either side of the free market rate quoted in the bazaar. On Decem- ber 30, 1967, the free market rate of the Af- ghanistan Bank was Af 76.00 buying, Af 76.50 selling, per US$1, and the free market rate in the bazaar was Af 77.75 buying, Af 78.25 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by the Govern- ment through the Afghanistan Bank. The control is facilitated by the existence of relatively large companies specializing in the export of such com- modities as karakul, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over such commodities. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghan- istan has bilateral trade and payments agreements must be made in the foreign currencies specified in the agreements.1 The proceeds from exports of karakul, wool, and cotton to other countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency require- ments. 1 These countries are Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Poland, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. There is also a bilateral payments agreement with India under which trade in certain commodities is settled through a special account maintained in inconvertible Indian rupees. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, liquor, arms, and ammunition) are prohibited on public policy grounds or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles, agricul- tural and food products, and selected nonessential consumer goods) also is prohibited. There are no quantitative restrictions on other imports. Some of the bilateral agreements, however, specify quo- tas for commodities to be traded, and the Govern- ment exercises control to ensure that trade con- forms with the commitments undertaken in the agreements. On the whole, trade with these coun- tries is carried out on a compensation basis, and usually both imports and exports are arranged by the same trader; imports against exports of cotton and wool are carried out by the Government or government agencies, or the proceeds of exports are allocated for repayment of government loans. Exchange is provided at the official rate for certain imports by the Government. Payments for imports through the banking system may be made only under letters of credit, against which a local currency deposit of 100 per cent of the value of the imports is required upon establishment of the letter of credit. The Afghanistan Bank is author- ized to refuse to sell foreign exchange for the im- portation of a group of consumer goods that are regarded as nonessential. However, exchange for these items may be purchased either from the com- mercial banks or in the bazaar. Payments for Invisibles Government payments for invisibles and pay- ments to foreigners on government contract in Afghanistan are made at the official rate. All other payments are settled at free market rates. Travelers leaving Afghanistan may take out not more than Af 500 in Afghan banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds In general, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). How- ever, exporters of cotton are required to sell at least 20 per cent of their total exports to countries 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN from which payments will be received in con- vertible currencies.2 Exchange receipts from exports of karakul, wool, and cotton must be surrendered at the official rate. Surrender requirements are also maintained for the proceeds of some other exports to bilateral agreement countries. With this excep- tion, the proceeds of all exports other than karakul, wool, and cotton, irrespective of the currency in which they accrue, may be sold at free market rates or be used by the exporter to pay for imports. Wool is subject to an export tax of 15.56 per cent. Cotton and cottonseed are subject to an export tax of 15.56 per cent when sold to bilateral countries and 8.22 per cent when sold to other countries. Walnuts are subject to an export tax of 9.5 percen t. Proceeds from Invisibles Thirty per cent of the foreign exchange receipts of the Government for the financing of the salaries in afghanis of foreign experts must be surrendered at the official rate. Receipts from foreign embas- sies, legations, and other foreign official agencies must be surrendered to the Afghanistan Bank at its free market buying rate. All other receipts from invisibles are sold at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaar. Travelers entering Afghanistan may bring in Afghan bank- notes not exceeding Af 500. Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior approval and is administered, as is domestic private investment, by an Investment Committee composed of five cabinet ministers. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law (Febru- ary 10, 1967) provides for a number of benefits, which include (1) income tax exemption for five years, beginning from the date of the first sales of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports for five years after approval of the invest- ment; (3) exemption from taxes on dividends for five years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than eight years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from export duties for ten years after the approval of the investment; and (5) mandatory purchases by gov- ernment agencies and departments of their require- ments from enterprises established under the law where such products are substantially competitive with imports in prices and quality. The law also establishes that an investment approved by the Investment Committee shall require no further license to operate in Afghanistan. Principal and interest installments on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatri- ated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 25 per cent of the total registered capital. All the fore- going transfers are made through the free market. Joint ventures of foreign and Afghan capital are encouraged, but no specific percentages of domestic participation are prescribed and 100 per cent foreign-owned investments are not precluded by law. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold and silver coins in Afghanistan for numismatic or investment purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold or silver in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold or silver in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Council of Ministers; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports and exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely, provided that settlement takes place through the free market. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of gold and silver in any form, unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes during 1967 2 For the 1967 cotton crop, this requirement has been temporar i ly suspended. February 10. A new Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law went into effect repealing 16 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and superseding the Law Encouraging the Invest- ment of Private Foreign Capital in Afghanistan of March. The export tax on cotton and cotton- seed was reduced from 24.44 per cent to 15.56 per cent for exports to bilateral countries, and from 17.11 to 8.22 per cent for exports to other countries. June. The policy was discontinued of not per- mitting imports of certain nonessential consumer goods from Japan unless equivalent Afghan goods were exported to Japan. AFGHANISTAN 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Algeria has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Algerian Dinar, which is at par with the French franc, giving the relationship DA 4.93706 = US$1. The Central Bank of Algeria deals at par in French francs and the other French Franc Area currencies. Buying and selling rates for specified currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area x are fixed by the Central Bank of Algeria on the basis of the rates quoted on the Paris exchange market for these cur- rencies. The exchange rates applicable to "agree- ment dollars" are those for the U.S. dollar in the Paris market. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance has general juris- diction over exchange control. The Central Bank of Algeria assists in the formulation of the exchange legislation and regulations and is responsible for their execution and for their application by the authorized banks. In addition, three commercial banks and the Postal Administration have been given authority to carry out some of the detail of exchange control. Import and export licenses for all commodities are issued on the advice of the competent ministry by the Ministry of Commerce. The Office National de Commercialisation (ONACO), the Office Algerien Interprofessionnel de Cereales (OAIC), the Societe Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes (SNTA), the Societe Nationale d'Edition et de Diffusion (SNED), the Societe Nationale de Siderurgie (SNS), the Service des Alcools, and certain professional associations (groupements professionals) have a monopoly over the import of certain commodities. The Societe Nationale pour la recherche, la production, le transport, la transformation et la commerciali- sation des hydrocarbures (SONATRACH) has a monopoly over imports and domestic sales of crude petroleum. Investment of foreign capital in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria requires approval 1 These currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, I ta l ian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 18 by a National Investment Committee in order to obtain the benefits of the Investment Code. Prescription of Currency Algeria is part of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are generally made in French francs. Settlements with countries with which Algeria has concluded bilateral payments agreements are made through special accounts under the terms of the agreements. Some of these accounts are denomi- nated in Algerian dinars and others in U.S. dollars. Algeria has signed payments agreements with Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Guinea, Hungary, North Korea, Mali, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Settlements with other countries are usually made in French francs, and sometimes in the currency of the country con- cerned. Nonresident Accounts For residents of countries outside the French Franc Area, the regulations pertaining to non- resident accounts are similar to those applied until early 1967 in France; most of these accounts are Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. For residents of other French Franc Area countries, there are three types of accounts in Algerian dinars: Individual Suspense Accounts, Franc Area Accounts, and Final Departure Accounts. Except as described below, all operations through these accounts are subject to authorization. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened without authorization and may be credited with payments from any country. Franc Area Accounts may be opened only with prior authorization from the Central Bank of Algeria. They may be credited freely with pro- ceeds from the sale of convertible currencies; with proceeds from the sale of freely disposable funds (other than notes and coins) in the currencies of other countries of the French Franc Area; with interest on the balances of Franc Area Accounts; and with payments for imports from countries in the French Franc Area. They may be debited freely for any payment in Algeria to a resident of any country in the French Franc Area (including ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Algeria); for any transfer to the credit of an account of a person residing in a country in the French Franc Area other than Algeria; and for any amount due to the bank with which the account is kept, for interest, commissions, or repayment of capital claims. Transfers between these accounts are free. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, with- out prior authorization, in the name of any person residing in Algeria, but not of Algerian nationality, who intends to leave Algeria for another country in the French Franc Area. These accounts may be credited freely with an amount equivalent to the holdings at October 20, 1963 in the account of the person concerned; with proceeds from sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the sales are made through the intermediary of a notary public; with proceeds accruing from the sale of stocks and other securities and from any income, amortization, and redemption in respect of securities, provided that the transactions are made through the intermediary of a bank; and with any other payments, up to DA 1,000. These accounts may be debited freely for all payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder; balances of less than DA 5,000 may, subject to certain conditions, be transferred to other parts of the French Franc Area. The Central Bank of Algeria maintains special accounts for central banks of the countries with which Algeria has concluded payments agree- ments. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel, Portugal, and South Africa are prohibited. All imports from bilateral pay- ments agreement countries require a license. A number of specified imports, listed under some 220 tariff headings, subheadings, or their parts, from all other countries are prohibited or are subject to either quantitative restriction or a special import procedure; the items include such commodities as butter, cattle, cement, cereals, clothing, coffee, fish, hides and skins, margarine, matches, meat, melons, milk, phosphates, sheep, soap, sugar, tea, television sets, tobacco, tomatoes, vegetables, wine, many types of textile piece goods, and passenger cars and other motor vehicles. The Government has the monopoly over the importation of some of these items through its ALGERIA Office National de Commercialisation (ONAGO), the Office Algerien Interprofessionnel de Cereales (OAIC), the Societe Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes (SNTA), the Societe Nationale d'Edi- tion et de Diffusion (SNED), the Service des Alcools, and the Societe Nationale de Siderurgie (SNS), while some of the other items may as a rule be imported only by professional associations (groupement professionnel des produits laitiers or GAIRLAC, groupement professionnel des bois or BOIMEX, groupement professionnel de la chaussure or GIAC, groupement professionnel pour les textiles or GITEXAL, groupement pro- fessionnel'des cuirs et peaux or GICP, and groupe- ment professionnel d'achat de lfindustrie textile or GADIT). Imports of firearms, ammunition, and explosives require an import license from the Ministry of the Interior (for civil and military firearms) or the Ministry of National Defense (for munitions and explosives). All other imports from countries with which Algeria does not maintain bilateral payments agreements may be made freely; some liberalized imports, however, require the prior visa of one of the import monopolies. Imports that are not liberalized are licensed in accordance with an annual import program. The program comprises quotas for the French Franc Area, each payments agreement country, and the convertibility area, i.e., all other countries combined. In addition, there are annual quotas for imports from France of a few specified com- modities. Liberalized imports not exceeding DA 10,000 in value require only the submission of an invoice to the customs when imported from a country with which no payments agreement is in force. Most liberalized imports whose value exceeds this figure are admitted on the basis of a declaration com- pleted by the importer, but some require an admin- istrative visa, which is stamped on an import attestation. Imports exceeding DA 10,000 in value, and all imports for which payment has to be made before the goods reach Algeria, must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the transaction must be made. Payments for liberalized goods valued at DA 60 or over require the prior approval of the Central Bank.2 2 With effect from February 2, 1968, the prior author- iza t ion of the Central Bank ceased to be required. 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA Imports made "without payment" (sans paie- ment), i.e., imports which do not involve compen- sation of any kind, from the French Franc Area require an authorization by the Ministry of Finance if their c.i.f. value exceeds DA 500. For goods imported under the import declara- tion procedure or with an import license, importers may, as soon as the import has been registered with an authorized bank, purchase the required foreign exchange from the bank. Unless earlier payment is to be made in accordance with the pro- visions of the import license or of a commercial contract approved by the authorities, payment to the foreign exporter may be made only after the shipping documents have been presented to the bank. The importer may also, after having domi- ciled (registered) the import, open a documentary import credit payable upon presentation of the shipping documents. Goods normally subject to import license and quota restriction may be freely imported in small parcels, provided that the value of the shipments does not exceed DA 5,000 for each shipment and the same addressee does not receive more than one parcel a day. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles to all countries require the approval of the Central Bank. How- ever, when supporting documents are presented, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the post office, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments such as ( 1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) travel expenses, ( 3) transfers of salaries and wages, and (4) pay- ments relating to government transactions with foreign companies. For other invisibles, the grant- ing of exchange must be authorized by the Central Bank. All insurance must be concluded with Algerian companies. Residents of other French Franc Area countries working in Algeria under the program for techni- cal cooperation may transfer abroad a certain per- centage of their net salaries: 50 per cent for single persons or married persons having their families in Algeria; 70 per cent for persons having their families abroad; and 100 per cent for employees who spend their vacations abroad (the transfer 20 being limited to the duration of their absence from Algeria). For other workers from French Franc Area countries who have contracts with employers and hold the necessary employment documents, the amounts that may be transferred are 30 per cent, 50 per cent, and 100 per cent, respectively, for the groups enumerated above. Residents of other countries who are employed in Algeria are permitted to transfer abroad lower percentages of their salaries. The payments must be transferred once a month on the basis of the remuneration for the previous month. Persons making such trans- fers of savings are not entitled to allocations for other personal transfers (e.g., for educational purposes). For residents traveling by air or sea to other countries, including the French Franc Area, the foreign exchange allocation is equivalent to DA 700 a person a year (DA 350 for children under 15) and is issued on presentation of a valid passport and travel documents; for travel by means other than air or sea, the allocation is DA 50 a person a year for adults. Furthermore, residents traveling by air or sea to a country within the French Franc Area are entitled to an allocation, in the currency of the countiy of destination, equivalent to DA 500 a person a trip, on presenta- tion of travel documents certified by the author- ized intermediary; children under 15 are entitled to DA 250. Foreign exchange for business travel is subject to authorization by the Central Bank of Algeria. Funds in EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may be used for business travel. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia can obtain Saudi Arabian riyals up to the equivalent of DA 1,200 a person; the allocation can be taken up in the form of a check by those traveling by air or sea, and in banknotes by those traveling overland. Travelers may take out Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Portugal, and the Republic of South Africa are prohibited. Exports of certain livestock, firearms, ammunition, explosives, and certain radio equipment are prohibited. All exports to countries with which Algeria has bilateral pay- ments agreements and some exports to all other countries require licenses. The export of specified ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution products is reserved for certain state trading organizations. With certain exceptions, exports must be domi- ciled (registered) with an authorized bank. Prior registration is not required for exports that are made on a firm sale basis, provided that they do not exceed DA 5,000 in value and that they are payable in not more than 90 days. After customs clearance, such exports must be registered, if they were not registered earlier. If the payment period is more than 90 days, the exports may be registered only after authorization is given by the Central Bank. Sales on consignment are expressly subject to authorization by the Central Bank, and registra- tion must always take place prior to customs clearance. The proceeds of exports, including those to the French Franc Area, may be the object of a 90-day credit and must thereafter be collected within 30 days. Foreign exchange proceeds may be used to make authorized payments abroad within three months from the date of their receipt. Companies holding mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria 50 per cent of the proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons. Certain percentages of the pro- ceeds from exports may be kept in special EFAC (Exportations-Fmis Accessoires) accounts. Exporters to the French Franc Area may retain 5 per cent of their export proceeds (up to DA 20,000 per export transaction), while those to the convertibility area (i.e., all other countries except those with which payments agreements are in force) may retain 12 per cent if they hold export cards and 8 per cent in all other instances. EFAC accounts are denominated in dinars and are held with the bank at which the export is regis- tered. Certain payments may be made from these accounts without prior approval by the Central Bank. All other export proceeds must be sur- rendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Amounts exceeding DA 500 that are due from nonresidents in payment for services must be col- lected and, if not used to make authorized pay- ments abroad, must be surrendered within one month from the date of receipt. There are no restrictions on the import of for- eign banknotes, coins (except gold coins), checks, and letters of credit, but foreigners must declare ALGERIA such holdings when they enter Algeria. Travelers may bring in Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and sur- render capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any destination are subject to indi- vidual license; residents are not normally permitted to acquire capital assets outside Algeria. Decree-Law No. 63-277 of July 26, 1963 established a code for foreign investments in Algeria made after July 1, 1962. A new Invest- ment Code, superseding that of 1963, was promul- gated by Decree-Law No. 66-284 of Septem- ber 15, 1966. It provides for state guarantees in respect of foreign investments of more than DA 500,000 in the industrial and tourist sectors. The new code provides for a retransfer guarantee in respect of the sale or liquidation proceeds of invested foreign capital, and establishes that profit remittances on such investments will be permitted up to 15 per cent annually of the foreign capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are severely restricted. Changes during 1967 During the period under review a number of imports in addition to those mentioned below were added to the list of those that were subject to either quantitative restrictions or a special import pro- cedure. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA January 6. Foreign physicians and dentists practising in Algeria could transfer annually 25 per cent of their earnings after taxes. February 8. Railroad travel in countries out- side the French Franc Area could no longer be paid for in Algeria. March 8. Nonresident travelers were permitted to re-export foreign exchange declared upon arrival, after deduction of DA 15 a day of their stay for summer visitors who slept in tents or youth hostels, DA 25 a day for summer visitors who stayed in private homes, and DA 35 a day for all others. April L The general customs tariff was applied to goods originating in Hong Kong or Japan. Previously, import duties on imports from Hong Kong or Japan were one third of those of the general tariff. April 27. The import of various ferrous and nonferrous products was reserved for the Societe Nationale de Siderurgie (SNS). The SNS monop- oly was extended to further commodities on June 16. June 2. Television receivers required an import license and became subject to quota. June 7. Exports to the United States and the United Kingdom could no longer be domiciled with authorized banks. The ban was lifted on September 14. June 9. Exports of oil and oil products to the United Kingdom and the United States were pro- hibited. The ban was lifted on September 14. June 9. Authorized banks were prohibited from making payments for imports from the United Kingdom and the United States. The ban was lifted on September 14. June 10. Payments for liberalized imports from all countries were made subject to prior approval (visa) by the Central Bank of Algeria. Exempt were imports settled through bilateral agreement accounts, public sector imports, and imports not exceeding DA 300 in value. The requirement was amended on November 2, 1967 (see below) and terminated on February 2, 1968. June 12. All payments in U.S. dollars or pounds sterling required the prior approval of the Central Bank. This requirement was rescinded on September 14. 22 July 21. The value beyond which payments for c.o.d. postal parcels required prior authorization by the Central Bank was raised from DA 60 to DA 300. July 21. The validity of the payments author- ization required on June 10 for imports of liberal- ized commodities was extended from three to six months. July 21. The domicilation requirement for imports was made applicable to transactions exceeding the value of DA 300 instead of DA 10,000, as previously. July 26. Imports of many textiles became subject to quota. July 29. The permissible value for each ship- ment of goods normally subject to import license and quota restrictions but imported by parcel post without an import license was raised from DA 60 to DA 300. Only one parcel a day could be received by the same addressee. August 24. The Societe Nationale pour la recherche, la production, le transport, la transfor- mation et la commercialisation des hydrocarbures (SONATRACH) was given a monopoly over the import of crude petroleum. August 24. The foreign oil companies in Algeria were required to make their entire local output of crude petroleum available for export. August 30. SONATRACH was given a monop- oly over domestic and foreign sales of crude petroleum and petroleum products. September 22. Imports from all sources of linen and woolen piece goods required the prior visa of GADIT. October 6. The Banque Exterieure d'Algerie was established. October 6. Imports by c.o.d. parcel post were suspended. The suspension was continued on November 2 and was lifted on December 1. November 1. A state monopoly was introduced over foreign financial transactions. International financial settlements could only be made through the Central Bank, three state-owned commercial banks, or the Postal Administration. Foreign banks in Algeria were restricted to local financial operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution November 2. The amount up to which imports did not require a payments authorization from the Central Bank was reduced from DA 300 to ^^ "0- November 2. The payments visa for license-free imports (see June 10, above) could for imports by c.o.d. parcel post be given by the Postal Admin- istration, provided that the value of a parcel did not exceed DA 5,000. November 22. Further textiles were made sub- ject to import licenses. December 5. The import monopoly of GITEXAL and GADIT was extended to addi- tional textiles. ALGERIA 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Exchange Rate System On January 9, 1957, a par value for the Argen- tine Peso was established by Argentina with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions take place in the official exchange market, in which the selling rate on December 29, 1967 was M$N 350 per US$1. The Central Bank of Argentina deals with the commercial banks at M$N 350 per US$1, buy ing and selling. Exchange transactions are subject to a stamp tax of %0 of 1 per cent. Forward exchange transactions may be con- cluded between individuals and authorized banks or among authorized banks at the fixed exchange rate of M$N 350 per US$1, subject to freely agreed premiums or discounts. Forward exchange purchases by the public, however, are restricted to import payments made under a documentary credit, bank collection, or bank guarantee (aval), and require a 40 per cent deposit in local currency for a period of 180 days. Forward contracts con- cluded as part of a swap transaction and forward transactions among authorized banks are exempt from the 40 per cent deposit. The deposit may not be financed by local banks. Forward exchange contracts connected with imports may be extended for a period of up to 180 days from the date of their original ma tu r i ty; those corresponding to exports may be extended only once, for a period of 30 days (or, where shipment is unavoidably delayed, for the period of the d e l ay ). The Central Bank intervenes in the forward exchange market as a seller at a prem ium of 8 per cent per annum. Administration of Control Exchange transactions must be carried out through banks and institutions authorized expressly for this purpose; those of a purely finan- cial character may be made by exchange houses. Purchases of banknotes and of travel exchange may also be made through authorized exchange agencies. The authority to make virtually all foreign payments has been delegated to the authorized institutions. Prescription of Currency Payments between Argen t ina and Chile, Colom- bia, Mexico, Paraguay, and Peru must be made 24 through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system.1 Transac- tions with other countries must be settled in con- vertible currencies or externally convertible Euro- pean currencies. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos and in foreign exchange in the name of any non- resident. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in Argentina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be effected freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports are generally free of import and exchange licensing; exchange to pay for them may be purchased in the exchange market. Some import payments in respect of capital goods, how- ever, require the specific approval of the Central Bank. Goods imported by official agencies require approval by the Central Bank and the Ministry of Economy if payment is extended over a period of more than 180 days. Imports of a number of products of the automotive industry are tempo- rarily prohibited. All imports are subject to a tax of 4 per cent on the freight charges. Import taxes include the following: a consular fee of ll/2 Per cen* payable in foreign currency on most import invoices; statistical taxes of 1% per cent or %0 per cent applicable to all imports; taxes ranging from 4 per cent to 10 per cent on imports of paper products, certain types of timber and timber products, and forest products; and taxes ranging from M$N 200 to M$N 2,000 a ton on imports of iron and steel. Import duties range from 5 per cent to 140 per cent. An advance import deposit of 40 per cent of the peso equivalent of the c. & f. value is required on most imports from all sources; goods imported from LAFTA countries are exempt if the goods are included in Argentina's concession lists (including the special lists for Ecuador and Para- guay ), and certain imports from Bolivia also are 1 On March 1, 1968, similar arrangements went in to force between A rgen t ina and Bolivia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exempt. The deposit is payable in pesos and calcu- lated at the current exchange rate in the exchange market. It must be lodged before any of the fol- lowing actions can be undertaken: opening a letter of credit; withdrawing shipping documents from the intermediary bank; purchasing forward exchange; or clearing goods through customs. The deposit is refunded after 180 days, provided that the goods have been cleared through customs. Payments for specified capital goods valued at over US$10,000, with the exception mainly of those imported from LAFTA countries, must be made in installments over a period ranging from at least two years to at least five years after the date of shipment, depending on the total value of the goods. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required when the terms of payment are not in accordance with the prescribed minimum terms or when the amount payable exceeds the equiva- lent of US$1 million. There are certain special arrangements relating to imports by automobile manufacturers; nevertheless, payments by the automotive industry may be made without any restrictions. Foreign exchange for import pay- ments may be purchased in the exchange market, subject in a few cases noted above to prior approval of the Central Bank. With minor excep- tions, advance payments for imports other than capital goods are not permitted. Payments for Invisibles The banks and institutions authorized to deal in foreign exchange are permitted to sell exchange for all categories of invisibles without limitation or documentary evidence. Travelers may take out any amount in domes- tic or foreign banknotes and coins, except gold coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are generally free of direct controls but minimum export prices are established for many agricultural and livestock exports; in certain cases, however, exports may be sold at prices lower than the minimum export prices. Exporters of most commodities are required to repatriate and sell in the exchange market the foreign exchange pro- ceeds of their exports within 10 working days after shipment. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports of chilled meat to the United Kingdom in ARGENTINA excess of their provisionally declared value must be surrendered within 90 days after shipment. Proceeds from exports of petroleum products must be surrendered within 180 days after loading. Pro- ceeds from nontraditional exports for which pay- ment is received within 180 days after loading, and which are covered by an irrevocable documentary credit or by drafts of similar duration, must be surrendered within 10 working days after the due date. The proceeds of exports to Chile (except those of nontraditional exports) must be collected within 90 days of the bill of lading and surrendered within 10 working days after the due date. Export- ers of malted barley and brewers' malt must sur- render the export proceeds within 45 days after shipment. The collection period for exports of quebracho extract is 120 days from the date of shipment for exports to other LAFTA countries, and 90 days for exports to other destinations. Some products are subject to export taxes (derechos de exportation) calculated on the basis of the f.o.b. sales value or on the index values fixed by the Advisory Commission on Export Values, on which the National Grain Board, the National Meat Board, the State Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, and Finance, and the Central Bank are represented. The principal export taxes are (1) 18 per cent for live animals, frozen and chilled meat, offal, cereals, oilseeds, rawhides, and greasy wool; (2) 12 per cent for special meat cuts, washed and carbonized wool, flour and wheat by-products, olive oil, raw cotton, and processed hides; (3) 8 per cent for canned meat, meat extract, sunflower seed oil and linseed oil, dairy products, combed wool, and tobacco. The tax must be paid before shipment of the merchandise or within the following 30 days when there is a bank aval that guarantees its payment. All exports are subject to a 2 per cent tax on the freight charges. Other taxes on exports are levied as follows: a 10 per cent sales tax on exports of linseed oil, oilseeds, logs, coal, certain wood extracts, and unprocessed cattle and horse hides, dried sheep- skins, and live cattle; a 5 per cent sales tax on exports of wool (suspended until September 30, 1968), olive oil, and processed hides; a 1.5 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the National Institute for Agricultural Technology, on exports of agricultural and livestock products; 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA a 1 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the financing of road construction in connec- tion with agricultural development, on exports subject to export taxes; a 1.5 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the National Grain Board, on certain agricultural products; a 1.5 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the Secretariat of Public Works, on the export of certain other agricultural products; a 0.3 per cent statistical tax on exports subject to export taxes; and a 5 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the Forestry Fund, on exports of tanning extracts (these are exempt, however, from all other charges and taxes). Surcharges, customs and additional duties, and other charges paid on imports of raw materials or other products incorporated in exported articles are returned to exporters. Exporters of specified nontraditional manufactured goods receive a tax rebate either as a reimbursement of internal taxes on the materials used or as a rebate on income tax, or both. The Central Bank has established a system of financial support for products not traditionally exported, based on the purchase of draf ts in foreign currency with terms of up to five years for capital goods, up to two and a half years for durable and semidurable goods, and up to one year for other goods. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles may be used freely. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes and coins. Capital There are no limitations on inward or outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Argentine industrial or commercial firms, how- ever, require the authorization of the Central Bank to enter into swap operations under which loans may be accepted in a convertible currency. Authorized banks may freely export resident- owned and nonresident-owned securities, whether domestic or foreign. Gold Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form, in Argentina or abroad. They may 26 sell gold in coins and bars in Argentina to institu- tions, houses, and agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange, but the regulations permitting residents to buy gold coins and bars from these firms are in suspense. Residents may freely acquire, hold, and sell gold in the form of personal jewelry, which may also be freely taken into and out of the country. Authorized industrial users may freely buy and sell gold in Argentina (except gold coins). Imports and exports of gold coins are unrestricted. Imports and exports of gold in other forms (bars, jewelry, etc.) may also be made freely, without prior license from the Central Bank, on the same basis as imports of other com- modities. The monetary authorities may buy, hold, and sell coined gold and gold bars, at home and abroad. Changes during 1967 January 24. Decree No. 424 required grain exporters to pay an additional 1 per cent charge on the f.o.b. value to the National Grain Board. February 15. The 16 per cent retention tax on exports of corn was abolished. March 13. The spot exchange rate of the Argentine peso was established at M$N 350 buying and selling per US$1; the Central Bank's buying and selling rates would not be allowed to move more than 1 per cent either side of this rate. Previously, the Central Bank's limits were M$N 245 buy ing and M$N 255 selling per US$1. Outward transfers henceforth were freely per- mitted and banks could freely accept deposits in foreign currency. Residents were no longer required to surrender receipts from invisibles. March 13. Most import restrictions were removed and all export subsidies were eliminated. March 13. Law No. 17198 introduced export taxes on major exports of 16, 20, or 25 per cent ad valorem. These were levied on the official index value (aforo) or, in the absence of such values, on the f.o.b. value. The new export taxes replaced a system of retention taxes on exports. March 13. Exports of linseed and linseed oil were made subject to taxes of M$N 9,500 and M$N 2,000, respectively, per ton. March 13. The import levies (recargos) on most commodities were reduced sharply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 16. New m in imum export values were established for many fa rm products. March 22. Decree No. 1916 imposed a 10 per cent sales tax on exports of unprocessed cattle and horse hides, and raised the sales tax on exports of sheepskins from 5 per cent to 10 per cent. May 8. Law No. 17267 provided for the crea- tion of an export credit insurance system. June 15. Circular R.C. 328, replacing Circular R.C. 196, reduced the prescribed minimum pay- ment terms for imports of capital goods and con- tained a definition of capital goods. June 19. Decree No. 4343 and Decree No. 4345 abolished the export taxes introduced by Law No. 17198 on tanned hides and on tung oil. June 23. Import levies on more than 500 prod- ucts were revised by Decree No. 4426. The changes included reductions in duties on many chemical products. July 1. Institutions and agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange were required, for statis- tical purposes, to submit to the Central Bank daily all details of their exchange transactions with the public sector and the private sector. July 5. Law No. 17330 reduced from 90 per cent to 50 per cent of the sum to be remitted abroad the amount of interest, royalty, and profit remittances that was subject to a withholding tax of 38.4 per cent. July 6. Law No. 17330 reduced the stamp tax on foreign exchange transactions from % to %0 of 1 per cent. July 16. Decree 5364 established a Service for the Promotion of Foreign Investment. July 18. Law No. 17352 revised certain tariff regulations and a large number of import levy rates. Import levies (recargos) were henceforth referred to as import duties (derechos de importation). July 27. The Central Bank henceforth provided authorized institutions with certain foreign bank- notes at the rate of M$N 350 per US$1. Author- ized institutions were allowed to charge %0 of 1 per cent on resale to the public. July 28. Decree No. 5435 exempted wool shipped between August 3, 1967 and Septem- ARGENTINA ber 30, 1968 from payment of the 10 per cent sales tax on exports. August 2. The export tax on some specified cuts of beef was reduced from 25 per cent to 20 per cent. August 2. The Central Bank began to intervene in the forward exchange market, selling foreign currency at a premium of 8 per cent per annum. September 8. Circular R.C. No. 332 extended from 60 to 90 days the period after shipment within which exporters were required to collect the exchange proceeds corresponding to the d iffer- ence between the provisional and the actual f.o.b. value of chilled beef exports to the United Kingdom. September 14. New minimum surrender prices were announced for wool, lamb carcasses, and sheep and cattle offal. September 21. Circular R.C. No. 333 exempted from the advance deposit of 40 per cent imports of raw materials and many products for industrial use, as well as all imports of semimanufactured goods and raw materials for re-export af ter proces- sing. The list of exemptions included about 1,400 tariff items, mainly products for the chemi- cal and metallurgical industries. September 27. Decree No. 7207 reduced the export taxes established by Law No. 17198 (March 13, above) on various types of wool and sheep by-products by 7 or 8 percentage points; the new tax rate was 18 per cent for greasy wool and frozen mutton and 8 per cent for combed wool. September 27. Law No. 17198 was amended to permit exporters to put up a bank guarantee instead of paying export taxes in cash before shipment. Exporters were also permitted, when necessary, to sell at prices below the official index values (aforos), although export taxes continued to be calculated on the latter. October 10. Circular R.C. No. 336 clarified the terms set in Circular R.C. No. 328 for imports of capital goods. October 11. Argentina became a fu ll contract- ing party to the GATT. October 19-20. The 20 per cent tax on exports of fresh f ru it and the 16 per cent tax on exports of dried f ru it were abolished. 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA October 23. Decree No. 7769 reduced export taxes on live cattle and pigs and on most types of meat from 25 per cent to 18 per cent; the export tax on certain processed beef products was reduced from 20 per cent to 12 per cent, and that on certain other processed meat and offal from 16 per cent to 8 per cent. The 10 per cent sales tax on exports of cattle hides and live cattle was abolished. October 23. The export duty on fish products and that on tea were removed, and the export duty on certain sheepskins was reduced from 20 per cent to 12 percent. October 23. The temporary suspension of bread wheat exports, which had gone into effect on June 12, 1967, was terminated. October 23. Decree No. 7924 granted substan- tial relief in respect of import duties to all mining activities. October 27. The export taxes on wheat, oats, and barley were reduced from 25 per cent to 18 per cent, and those on wheat flour and other proc- essed cereals from 20 per cent to 12 per cent. November 8. Law No. 17529 empowered the Government to grant exporters of manufactured products a rebate of up to 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value on their income tax. November 13. A sales tax of 5 per cent was levied on exports of olive oil in containers of more than five kilos; it replaced the 16 per cent export tax. December 5. Decree No. 4105 provided for the duty-free importation, up to quantities to be speci- fied later, of agricultural machinery not produced in Argentina. December 29. Decree No. 9588 established that exporters of specified manufactured goods would be entitled to reimbursement of 12 per cent of the f.o.b. value as a reimbursement of internal taxes on the materials used. December 29. Decree No. 9610 provided that exporters of specified manufactured products would be permitted to deduct the equivalent of 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value of their shipments from their income tax liabilities. December 29. Decree No. 9612 provided for certain changes in the regulations governing gold. (The Decree was subsequently implemented by Central Bank Circular R.C. 345 of February 29, 1968, which permitted free importation of mone- tary gold and, subject to the general provisions governing imports, free importation of gold bars. Exports required the prior approval of the Central Bank .) 28 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA ' Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.995310 gram of fine gold per Australian Dollar or $A 1 = US$1.12. Official rates are fixed for spot transactions in sterling: $A 2.1429 buying, and $A 2.1514 selling, per £ stg. 1. The rates for spot transactions in other currencies quoted by the authorized banks are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London and New York. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1967 was US$1.1241 buying, and US$1.1174 selling, per $ A 1. Australia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 1, 1965. Administration of Control The Reserve Bank of Australia administers the exchange control on behalf of the Commonwealth Treasurer, but considerable discretionary powers are delegated to the trading banks authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licensing is administered by the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department of Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency Australia is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Australia and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in sterling, in another Sterling Area cur- rency, or in Australian currency through the account of a bank domiciled in any other country in the Sterling Area with a bank in Australia. Payments for imports from countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Australian currency through the account of a bank in the country or area of origin of the goods with a bank in Australia, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Proceeds from exports to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area may be accepted in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Australian currency from an appro- priate nonresident account, or in any non-Sterling 1 The mon e t a ry area of Au s t r a l ia inc ludes Papua and New Gu in e a. Area currency which is freely exchangeable for External Account sterling. Transfers of funds to assist certain specified bodies in Viet-Nam are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of residents of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area are subject to approval, which is granted in the same circum- stances and subject to the same conditions as if a transfer to the country of residence of the account holder were involved. Transfers are allowed freely, on application, between accounts of nonresidents of the Sterling Area. Under cur- rent policy, the balance on an account held by a nonresident of the Sterling Area may be with- drawn in convertible currency. There are no blocked accounts containing funds ineligible for remittance overseas. Imports and Import Payments With the few exceptions mentioned below, goods may be imported freely without import licenses, and no restrictions are imposed on pay- ments for imports, provided that the prescription of currency requirements are observed. Import licenses are required for unwrought, waste, and scrap aluminum and aluminum alloy; used equip- ment (and parts therefor) for earth-moving, excavating, and handling of materials; twine, rope, cordage, and cable of polyethylene and/or poly- propylene; 2 used or secondhand four-wheel drive vehicles (excluding public-service type passenger vehicles); and specified knitted garments. The licensing of the knitted goods is a temporary mea- sure applied while the Tariff Board conducts inquiries as to the needs of local industries affected. In accordance with a resolution of December 16, 1966 of the UN Security Council, selective mandatory sanctions have been applied against Rhodesia; the goods affected include tobacco, ferroalloys, chrome ores, and asbestos. Import controls are maintained on certain goods, irrespective of origin, for reasons of health, morals, or security; import controls are maintained 2 On J a n u a ry 6, 1968, temporary protective quan t i ta t ive restrictions were imposed on imports of twine, rope, cordage, and cable of polypropylene and mixtures of polyethylene and polypropylene. 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA over certain other goods where it is considered necessary to enforce quality standards. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control, but, with the exception of transfers to specified bodies in Viet-Nam, they are not restricted; the control operates primarily to prevent unauthorized capital transfers, although there are some restrictions maintained for security reasons. There is a basic exchange allowance of $A 4,000 in any 12 months for any kind of travel in any country; additional amounts may be obtained on application, provided that the exchange control is satisfied that the exchange is to be used for bona fide travel expenses and not for an unauthorized capital transfer. Limits are placed on remittances for family maintenance and gifts; however, applications for such transfers are treated liberally, and amounts beyond the normal limit for family maintenance are approved on application. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may take out any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes within 6 months of entry, provided that they brought the notes into Aus- tralia. Other travelers may take out up to $A 100 in Australian currency, without special authoriza- tion; of this amount, up to $A 4 may be coins. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of all commodities, unless specifi- cally exempted, requires an export license in terms of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, to ensure that the fu ll proceeds are received in a currency and within a period approved by the Reserve Bank. To assist supervision, there is a fu r ther condition that all shipping documents, bills of lading, etc., must be drawn to the order of and delivered to the Reserve Bank or a trading bank acting as its agent. The Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations prohibit the export of speci- fied goods either absolutely or subject to pre- scribed conditions. The purpose of the controls, inter alia, is to conserve Australian resources, viz., iron ores, and assist the orderly marketing in respect of primary products. Exports to Rhodesia of arms and other military equipment and of cer- tain other goods, such as aircraft and motor vehi- cles, are prohibited in accordance with the UN Resolution. 30 Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received in Sterling Area currencies may be disposed of freely. Pro- ceeds from invisibles in other currencies do not have to be surrendered, but they must be reported and may be disposed of only with permission. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital All transfers of capital from Australia require approval. Transfers abroad of resident capital normally are allowed only for certain types of direct investment overseas. Approval is normally granted for the repatriation of capital by nonresi- dents, but no advance commitments are given. No restrictions are placed on the receipt of capi- tal funds from abroad, but residents must obtain prior approval before borrowing foreign currency, including Sterling Area currency, or incurring a liability to a resident of a country outside the Sterling Area. Wholly or substantially foreign- owned companies are requested by the Govern- ment to consult the Reserve Bank of Australia in connection with any proposals they may have to borrow funds in Australia. Foreign securities owned by Australian resi- dents need not be surrendered, but they must be reported. This obligation does not cover securi- ties whose principal and interest are payable in a currency of the Sterling Area or certain securities expressed in Canadian dollars and registered in Australia, provided that the securities are held within the Sterling Area. The export of securities and practically all transactions in foreign securi- ties are subject to approval. Funds invested by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area in securities quoted on an Australian stock exchange can be repatriated under current policy in non-Sterling Area currency at official market rates of exchange. Residents of Australia are permitted to sell in the investment currency or property currency market in the United Kingdom receipts in non- Sterling Area currencies that under the U.K. regu- lations are eligible for disposal in these markets. Gold Residents must surrender to the Reserve Bank of Aus tra l ia all gold coming into their possession ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution with the exception of gold coins the gold content value of which does not exceed $A 50 and gold lawfu l ly acquired for use in a profession or trade. Imports of gold are not restricted but imported gold becomes subject to delivery to the Reserve Bank. Exports of gold require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Gold jewelry is not subject to acquisition by the Reserve Bank and imports of such items are unrestricted. Exports of gold jew- elry exceeding $A 250 in value require the issue of an export license. Travelers require an export license if taking out of Australia gold jewelry in excess of a total value of $A 22,000 or when the gold content value of any one article exceeds $A 250. Changes during 1967 January 10. In accordance with UN Resolution No. 232/1966 of December 16, 1966, the embargo on imports from and exports to Rhode- sia was extended to a wider range of products. April 10. Restrictions were imposed on exports of uran ium. April 12. Funds invested by nonresidents of the Sterling Area in securities quoted on an Aus- tralian stock exchange could be repatriated in non- AUSTRALIA Sterling Area currency at official market rates of exchange; previously, in those cases where the securities had been purchased with "security" or "blocked" sterling, such proceeds could only be converted into non-Sterling Area currencies through the "security" sterling market. April 21. Import licenses were required for used or secondhand four-wheel drive vehicles (excluding public-service type passenger vehicles). September 9. It was made an offense to send or take money or goods to certain named bodies supporting forces opposed to Australian troops in or near Viet-Nam, or to similar bodies or classes of persons that may be proclaimed from time to time. The named bodies were the Government of North Viet-Nam, the communist party of North Viet-Nam, and the National Liberation Front of South Viet-Nam. It was provided, however, that it would not be an offense to contribute money or goods to the Australian Red Cross or for that body to transmit funds or send goods to the International Red Cross for use in North or South Viet-Nam. December 19. Temporary protective quantita- tive restrictions were imposed on imports of cer- tain knitted garments. 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA l Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0341796 gram of fine gold per Austrian Schilling or S 26.00 = US$1. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are S 25.80 buy- ing, and S 26.20 selling, per US$1 —rates at which the Austrian National Bank will buy or sell. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Austria and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. "Agreement dollars" are quoted at par with the U.S. dollar. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Austria accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Austrian National Bank administers the exchange control and issues licenses where re- quired. Most exchange transactions pass through those Austrian banks that have been authorized to implement exchange control regulations. The customs issue freely and without delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licenses, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained f rom the competent ministry, viz., the Federal Ministry of Trade, Com- merce, and Industry (Licensing Office) or the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the countries with which Aus- tria maintains bilateral payments arrangements 2 are made through clearing accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Settlements with all other countries may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Schilling Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident ac- counts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts and Blocked Accounts. Free Schilling Accounts may be freely credited with proceeds f rom the sale of gold, gold coins, or convertible currencies by a nonresident to the Austrian National Bank, or to an authorized bank, as well as with payments permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or individual authorization. The accounts may be freely debited for payments to Austrian residents, with the excep- tion of loans granted by nonresidents to residents, which require individual licenses. Balances may be freely converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Blocked Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonresidents. A general license permits their use for many payments for current and capital invisibles. The transfer abroad of funds in Blocked Accounts is subject to an individual license. In most cases the licenses are granted freely if the funds belong to residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible curren- cies. As a result, Blocked Accounts largely repre- sent funds due to residents of countries with which Austria settles payments through bilateral accounts. Nonresidents may also maintain Nonresident Accounts in convertible foreign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annex to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country without quantitative restriction. All goods included in the Annex require licenses. Most of these goods are free of quantitative restriction. The liberalization depends on the group of countries f rom which they are imported; for such liberalized goods, licenses are issued by the customs at the time of clearance.3 Nearly all imports f rom European OECD coun- 1 In view of certain changes that took place on Janu- ary 1, 1968 (see note at the end of this su rv ey ), this survey presents the position as at that date. - Bu lga r ia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, Po land, Rum an i a, and U.S.S.R. 3 Goods liberalized for import from a given group of countries may be freely imported from any country in the group, provided that the country of exportation and the coun t ry of produc t ion of the goods involved are in the same group. 32 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tries, their associated territories, and many other countries 4 are liberalized. Imports f rom Canada and the United States and its territories are liberal- ized to the same degree as those f rom the European OECD countries, except that slaughtered poultry is subject to quantitative restriction when imported from Canada or the United States. Imports from three other countries 5 are treated in practically the same way as imports f rom European OECD coun- tries. Many nonagricultural imports are admitted under an automatic licensing procedure when orig- inating in Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, or Rumania. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, discretionary licensing, and compensation (b a r t e r ). State trading covers tobacco in any form, salt, spirits, and various breadstuffs and feedgrains. Global quotas apply to specified imports f rom OECD countries and all other GATT countries, except Cuba, Czechoslovakia, and Japan. Dis- cretionary individual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the proce- dures listed above. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries; in many cases, they are issued in accordance with quotas established in bilateral trade agreements. Import licenses may not be granted for goods imported under compensation transactions, unless there is no other way of settling payments; at pres- ent, trade under such arrangements is negligible. Grains and other specified goods are imported in accordance with a special system of controls and regulations maintained under so-called Agricul- 4 The f u ll list is as follows: Algeria, Argentina, Aus- t ra l ia, Be lg ium, Botswana, Brazil, Bu rma, Bu rund i, Cam- bodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Congo (B razzav i l le ), Democratic Republic of Congo, Cyprus, Dahomey, Denmark (includ- ing Faroe Islands and G reen land ), Dominican Republic, F in land, France, Gabon, Gamb ia, Federal Republic of Ge rmany, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Haiti, Iceland, Indo- nesia, Ire land, I ta ly, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwa i t, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Ma law i, Malaysia, Ma ld ive Islands, Mali, Ma l ta, Maur i- tan ia, Ne the r land s, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, No rway, Peru, Portugal, Rhodesia, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Afr ica, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tun is ia, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, Un i ted States, Upper Volta, U ruguay, Yugoslavia, and Zamb ia. 5 Ind ia, Israel, and Pak is tan. AUSTRIA tural Marketing Laws. In addition to grains, the following groups of products are covered by Mar- keting Laws: milk and butter; cattle, pigs, and horses for slaughter; products f rom these animals for human consumption; and certain fertilizers. In principle, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received trade licenses. For new importers there is a newcomers' quota, which is up to a max imum of 20 per cent of the corre- sponding global quota. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended. Payments for imports from, and originating in, countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies do not require exchange licenses.6 Payments for imports from, or originat- ing in, countries with which Austria maintains bi- lateral payments agreements require exchange licenses, which are granted without restriction if the payments are made in the appropriate bilateral currencies. Payments for invisibles With few exceptions, residents are permitted to conclude transactions involving current invisi- bles with residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies. Ex- ceptions comprise transactions concerning trans- port, films, and insurance. For transactions in current invisibles that involve payments to resi- dents of all other countries, individual licenses are required. The licenses are granted after account is taken of the terms of existing bilateral paymen ts arrangements and other considerations, such as the principle of reciprocity and hardship cases; certain liabilities (e.g., freight payments, handling charges, commissions, etc.) are covered by general licenses. Payments on account of authorized invisibles to residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may be made freely, provided that no capital transfer is involved. All payments to bilateral payments agreement countries for invisibles require licenses. Residents traveling to countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible curren- 6 In a few instances, import licenses are granted only on condition that a b i la teral currency is used for pay- m en t; in such cases, the necessary exchange license is issued at the same time. 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA cies may buy exchange f rom authorized banks up to the equivalent of S 26,000 for each trip. Should a resident require more foreign exchange for traveling, the increase may be authorized by the National Bank. In addition, Austrian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for hotels and food as well as transportation. Per- sons leaving Austria may take with them S 15,000 in Aus t r ian notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the For- eign Trade Law have to be obtained from the competent ministry. Goods exported under com- pensation arrangements are subject to licensing by the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Indus try. For most other exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant bilateral trade agreements and the fu lf i l lment of quotas established in accordance with such agree- ments, and for the needs of the Austrian economy. Export claims must be declared. Export pro- ceeds may either be surrendered or be deposited in accounts with authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for authorized payments. Deposits in bilateral clear- ing currencies may be used in accordance with the terms of an individual payments license. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles, if not sur- rendered or deposited in an account with an authorized bank, have to be declared within eight days from the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be deposited with an authorized bank and subsequently used in the same way as proceeds accruing f rom exports. Persons entering Austria may bring in Austrian or foreign bank- notes and coins without limit. Capital Direct investments by nonresidents are generally permitted, if made with convertible currencies or f rom free or originally owned blocked schilling balances. For investments financed in other ways (imported Aus t r ian currency, inconvertible cur- 34 rencies, investment loans, goods), authorization is granted on the merits of each case. Residents are permitted to obtain from non- residents loans and credits as follows: ( 1) com- mercial credits for a period of up to one year; (2) loans with maturities of five years or more, to be used for investment purposes (e.g., for ex- pansion of production equ ipmen t ); (3) loans to be used by enterprises in Austria in which the nonresidents participate; (4) loans secured by export claims; and ( 5) loans for a period of up to five years, to be used abroad for definite mer- chandise transactions. The Austrian National Bank permits the trans- fer abroad of (1) proceeds from the liquidation of various foreign investments in Austria (shares or participation in Austrian enterprises, Austrian securities, real estate in Aus tr ia) and (2) repay- ments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants, and payments due to nonresidents on account of dow- ries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs, are permitted. Residents are allowed to acquire participation rights in fore ign companies, associations, and other enterprises, and to establish, acquire, or extend foreign agencies or individually owned firms; earn- ings accruing f rom such investment may be rein- vested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad, to grant commercial or invest- ment credits, and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad. Domestic insur- ance companies may conclude with nonresidents life insurance contracts in Austria. Transactions and operations mentioned in the four preceding paragraphs are licensed upon docu- men ta t ion, provided that they are concluded with residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies. A number of authorized banks are permitted to accept from abroad and to employ abroad funds in convertible currencies for a period of up to five years. Residents are allowed to purchase from non- residents, without restriction, foreign securities quoted on foreign stock exchanges and Austrian securities; for foreign securities and Austrian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, with certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of Aus- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tr ian ex ternal bonds ), the securities purchased must be kept with such banks. Payments for these purchases to residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible curren- cies may be made in those currencies, whereas payments to residents of countries with which Austria has bilateral payments agreements may be made only by crediting a Blocked Account. Resi- dents may sell securities deposited in accordance with the afore-mentioned provision with Austrian authorized banks to nonresidents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and through authorized banks. The proceeds of the sale, as well as the foreign exchange obtained as a result of redemption of the foreign securities by the debtor, may be kept on account with an author- ized bank. Gold Transactions in gold (excluding jewelry and medallions, which are considered jewelry) are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. The Austrian National Bank is authorized by this law to deal in gold thus def ined; the Bank has granted a number of general permissions widely liberalizing the domestic gold trade. The Bank publishes a buying price for gold and buys gold coins at prices based on that rate. The Bank has authorized credit institutions and exchange offices to buy gold coins on its behalf, and publishes buying prices for those that are traded most frequently; these prices are based on the Bank's published buying price for unmanu fac tu red gold. The Bank does not sell gold coins. The Mint releases certain types of gold coins to authorized credit institutions for resale to the public. Residents may hold gold in any fo rm, including bars, in Austria, and they may acquire in Austria any gold coins other than those that are legal tender and any gold medals or medal- lions. The acquisition of gold in other forms than coins, medals, or medallions, however, is reserved for the monetary authorities, authorized industrial users, dentists, and jewelers. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the license is issued by the Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry, and usually is granted to the monetary au thor i t ies and to industrial users. Where this law does not require an import license for imports (e.g., for the import of gold b a r s ), the AUSTRIA Foreign Exchange Law prescribes a license issued by the National Bank covering the purchase of gold. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require authorization by the National Bank. Commercial imports of jewelry and of articles containing a minor amount of gold, such as watches, are liberalized, licenses being issued automatically by the customs; commercial exports of a number of such articles, however, must be licensed by the Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. Changes during 1967 January 1. Further commodities were freed from quan t i ta t ive restriction when imported from and originating in GATT countries (except Cuba, Czechoslovakia, and J ap an ). The principal re- maining restrictions on imports of industrial goods f rom such countries were global quotas for lignite, antibiotics, and motion-picture films. January 1. A long-term trade agreement with Czechoslovakia went into effect. Austria hence- fo r th applied an automatic licensing procedure to many nonagricultural imports of Czechoslovak origin. January 1. Payment on the basis of a financial switch for commodities purchased in member countries of the International Monetary Fund was restricted to three types of transaction: (1) transit sales to clearing countries; (2) certain additional imports intended for incorporation in exports to be sold to clearing countries; and (3) imports of commodities originating in clearing countries. April 26. A trade protocol with Rumania was signed which provided for an automatic licensing procedure for certain imports into Austria. August 1. The Spanish peseta was quoted offi- cially in Vienna. October 1. A new antidumping law came into effect, replacing that of 1962. NOTE. —The following change took place early in 1968: January 1. New trade agreements with Hun- gary and Poland entered into force, under which Aus tr ia applied an automatic licensing procedure to the import of certain additional commodities when originating in these countries. 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Exchange Rate System The par values are 0.0177734 gram of fine gold per Belgian Franc and per Luxembourg Franc or BF 50.00 = US$1 and Lux F 50.00 = US$1. There are two exchange markets —the official and the free. In the official exchange market, only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions per- mitted in that market.1 The spot exchange rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates within official limits of BF 49.625 buying, and BF 50.375 selling, per US$1; the rates for the other convertible currencies fluctuate between limits which result from combin- ing the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Belgium-Luxembourg and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Most exchange transactions are settled through the official market. In the free exchange market, all currencies (including banknotes) may be bought and sold at freely fluctuating rates. Convertible currencies acquired through the free market may be sold in the official market, but no other direct connection between the two markets exists. On December 29, 1967, the free market rates between banks for the U.S. dollar were BF 49.85 buying, BF 49.89 selling, per US$1. Depending on the category of payments and receipts, either one or both of the exchange mar- kets may be used for settlements with so-called convertible area countries, which include all coun- tries except those in the bilateral group.2 If receipts from bilateral group countries are obtained in convertible currencies, they are to be ceded on the official market. Forward rates are left to the interplay of market forces. In the official market, authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg may deal with other author- ized banks and with nonresidents in any of the convertible currencies. Any resident or nonresi- 1 The currencies dealt with in the official market are Aus tr ian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. They are referred to in this survey as the convertible currencies. 2 The b i la teral group countries are Bu rund i, Democratic Repub l ic of Congo, Rwanda, and U.S.S.R. 36 dent, banks included, may deal freely currency in the free market. Belgium and Luxembourg accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. in any Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg (the Belgian-Luxembourg Eco- nomic Un ion ); the two countries constitute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administration of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) is exercised by the Institut Belgo-Luxembourgeois du Change. Exchange control powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks. The BLEU Convention of May 23, 1935, revised with effect from August 1, 1965 by a Protocol of Janu- ary 29, 1963, conferred on the Belgo-Luxembourg Administrative Commission the authority to license trade transactions; this Commission deter- mines import and export policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the Licensing Offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements oper- ate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made, according to their nature, through the appropriate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appropriate category of nonresident account. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries (see footnote 2) and the convertible area (all other countries). All inward and outward transactions are classi- fied in four groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, industrial expenses (e.g., costs of pro- cessing), and other commercial expenses including insurance; List B covers settlements of travel firms, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution salaries, pensions, fees, subscriptions, taxes, and public administration payments; List C covers administration expenses, income on securities, loans, etc., rents, exploitation rights, repatriation of certain foreign long-term investments, and transfers by emigrants of foreign nationality; List D covers gifts, life insurance payments, family maintenance payments, capital investments, liqui- dation of investments, dealings in gold, transfers by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg national- ity, transfers by immigrants, inheritances, forward covering of merchandise, private travel expenses, and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for for- eign payments are summarized in the accompany- ing table. In dealing with countries in the con- vertible area, there is a choice between the official and the free market for convertible currencies received f rom transactions in Lists C and D or paid for transactions in Lists A, B, and C; such settlements with the convertible area if made in Belgian or Luxembourg francs can also be settled through a Financial or a Convertible Account. All paymen ts to countries in the convertible area, and all receipts from such countries for transactions included in Lists C and D, may also be effected in domestic or foreign banknotes. In addition to the general methods of settlement described above, individual licenses are granted BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG in order to allow transfers through the official market for some of the transactions mentioned in List D. These cover essentially direct investment by enterprises and some capital transfers by indi- viduals. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg f ranc accounts of non- residents are classified as follows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official market, and these accounts may be opened in the name of any nonresident.4 They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used for settlements which either must or may be made through the official market, and may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the official market to authorized banks in Belgium- Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred freely to any nonresident account or be converted into any currency in the official or the free market. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area coun- 4 Including civil servants of foreign nationality who are employed in the BLEU by specified international organ- izations. SUMMARY OF PERM ISS IBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACT ION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Outward Payments A, B, and C Convertible D A, B, C, and D Convertible Bilateral Any Any Official or free Free Any Financial Bilateral 3 Inward Payments A and B C a nd D Convertible Convertible Convertible Convertible Other Official Official or free Free Convertible I Convertible j or F inanc ial A, B, C, and D Bilateral Convertible Official Convertible or B i la te ral 5 3 B i l a t e r al Account of the coun t ry concerned. 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG tries,5 and they are not related to any coun try or monetary area. They may be used for settlements which either must or may be made through the free marke t, and may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the free market and of convertible cur- rencies in the official market. Domestic banknotes and proceeds from the sale in the free market of foreign banknotes deposited with authorized banks by foreign travelers in Belgium-Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad may be credited freely to Financial Accounts. Transfers between Finan- cial Accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated on the free market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries (see footnote 2 ), and they are related to the coun try of residence of the account holder. They are used for settlements with bilateral countries, and may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale by a non- resident of convertible currencies in the official marke t. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may be made freely between Bilateral Accounts related to Burund i, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Rwanda. In practice, the authorities permit the conversion of balances on Bilateral Accounts of the central banks of these three countries into foreign cur- rencies. Imports and Import Payments Imports of sugar and tobacco of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Individual licenses are required for ( 1) all imports f rom Albania, Bul- garia, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam,6 (2) a few imports from Luxembourg into Bel- gium and vice versa, and ( 3) a number of imports from all other countries.7 The commodities for 5 Ind iv idua ls resident in Bu rund i, Democratic Repub l ic of Congo, or Rwanda are au thor ized to ma in ta in "assimi- lated" res ident accounts. G Import licenses are issued f ree ly for a large number of commod i t ies when o r ig ina t ing in and sh ipped f rom Bul- ga r ia, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, and Poland. 7 Some impo r ts in the last group do not requ ire an impo rt license when imported from the N e th e r l ands or f r om o ther EEC countries. 38 which individual licenses are required include many textile products, certain agricultural products and foodstuffs, and coal and kerosene. All other commodities, which constitute about four fifths of total imports, are free of license and quantitative restriction; only a simple form completed by the importer giving notification of the payment (pay- ment declaration) is required when payment is made through an authorized bank. Many com- modities subject to individual licensing are also admitted w i thout quan t i ta t ive restriction. Imports from non-EEC countries of most prod- ucts covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC ( inc lud ing cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and poultry mea t) are subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of beef, veal, dairy products, olive oil, most other oils and fa ts, sugar, and specified f ru i ts and vegetables. No exchange control documentation is required for imports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Prescrip- tion of Currency, above ). If the requirements are not fu l f i l led, the authorized bank submits a request to the central exchange control authority for spe- cial permission. Exchange control approval is also required to make payments for imports more than three months before or a f ter the date of customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for transactions included in Lists A, B, and C may be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account. Supporting documents must in that case be presented to an authorized bank, and in exceptional cases the approval of the cen- tral exchange control authority is required. Pay- ments to convertible area countries for all invisi- bles (including those in List D) may be made through the free market, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs to a Financial Account, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Payments to bilateral countries (see footnote 2) must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the country con- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cerned. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds The export to Rhodesia of arms, ammunition, other military material, and oil and oil products is prohibited. Individual licenses are required for (1) all exports to Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet- Nam, ( 2) a few exports f rom Belgium to Luxem- bourg and vice versa, and (3) specified exports to all other countries.8 All other exports are free of license; only a simple form completed by the exporter giving notification of the export is required. No exchange control documentation is required for exports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to make sure that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Special authorization is required to collect export proceeds more than six months after the date of exportation. Export proceeds in convertible currencies must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered to an author- ized bank, or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Cur- rency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invisi- bles connected with certain commercial transac- tions (Lists A and B—see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange m a rk e t ), or, alternatively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Cur- rency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Receipts in convertible currencies from other transactions (Lists C and D) with countries of the convertible area may be retained or sold in the official or the free marke t. 8 Some exports in the last group do not require an export license when exported to the Ne the r lands or to other EEC countries. BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Proceeds from transac- tions included in Lists C and D from convertible area countries may also be collected in domestic or foreign banknotes. Foreign and domestic bank- notes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions with convertible area countries may be carried out freely through the free market, by settlement in Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals, including gifts, family maintenance payments, remittances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and inheri- tances, but not transactions of a financial charac- ter, may also be made through the official market, subject to individual license. In addition, incoming capital may be received in convertible currencies through the official market or in Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs to the debit of a Convertible Account. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments made in Belgium-Luxembourg. In that case, capi- tal brought in through the official market may be repatriated through that market. Also eligible for outward transfer through the official market are the amortization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by residents of convertible area coun- tries, provided that such securities had been held at least six months prior to the ma tur i ty date. All transactions in securities by residents or nonresi- dents are free, but the financial settlement of such transactions must conform to the general regula- tions. Inward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries must be received in con- vertible currencies through the official market or in Belgian francs through Bilateral Accounts; out- ward payments for capital transactions with bilat- eral countries must be made only in Belgian f rancs through Bilateral Accounts. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in the form of coins or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unre- 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG stricted and free of license. Settlements in respect of gold transactions with convertible area coun- tries may be made through the free market, through financial accounts in Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. No customs duties or other charges are levied on imports or exports of gold, except on imports for industrial or hand icraft purposes. Licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold; these are issued without limitation, and professional users are authorized to make payments through the official market. Changes during 1967 January 1. The accounts in Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs opened by foreign civil servants appointed to listed international organizations established in the BLEU, which were previously assimilated to resident accounts, were transformed into Convertible Nonresident Accounts. Conse- quently, exchange control approval no longer was required for the transfer through the official market of savings from salaries. April 26. A trade agreement between Benelux and Hungary was signed, which provided for the de facto liberalization of imports of many com- modities of Hungarian origin. May 25. A list was published of some 200 com- modities that would in fu tu re qualify for export rebates. June 22. Certain ju te products were added to the list of commodities subject to import licensing. July 12. Petroleum products were added to the list of commodities subject to export licensing. July 20. Imports from all sources of certain vegetable oils, margarine, and certain other oils and fats were freed from quantitative restrictions. August 22. A trade agreement between Bene- lux and Poland was signed, which provided for the de facto liberalization of imports of many com- modities of Polish origin. September 5. Imports from all sources of cane and beet sugar were freed from quantitative restric- tions. September 27. Certain textile products made of cotton, synthetic fibers, or other materials were added to the list of commodities subject to import licensing. October 3-4. Eggs, poultry meat, rice, pork, and cereals were freed from import and export licensing in trade with other EEC countries. October 27. A trade agreement between Bene- lux and Ruman ia was initialed, which provided for the de facto liberalization of imports of many commodities of Rumanian origin. November 14. A decree was published estab- lishing that public bids by foreign companies or individuals for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies required the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. The decree went into effect on January 1, 1968. November 15. A trade agreement between Benelux and Czechoslovakia was signed, which provided for the de facto liberalization of imports of many commodities of Czechoslovak origin. December 15. A trade agreement between Benelux and Bulgaria was initialed, which pro- vided for the de facto liberalization of imports of many commodities of Bulgarian origin. 40 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Exchange Rate System On May 14, 1953, a par value for the Boliviano was established by Bolivia with the Fund. How- ever, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. A single, freely fluctuating rate was established by virtue of Supreme Decree 4538 of December 15, 1956. All exchange transactions are carried out in a free market, in which the exchange rate has remained stable since January 1959. On January 1, 1963, the boliviano was replaced by the Bolivian peso at a rate of Bs 1,000 = $b 1.00. For operational purposes, the free market is divided into two sectors: the public sector and the private sector. The Monetary Department of the Central Bank of Bolivia operates in the pub- lic sector, buying foreign exchange from the Government and the official enterprises, including the Bolivian Mining Corporation (COMIBOL), and selling foreign exchange to the Banking Department of the Central Bank, the banks, and the Government and its official agencies. The exchange rate of the Monetary Department of the Central Bank on December 29, 1967 was $b 11.875 buying, and $b 11.885 selling, per US$1. All sales of foreign exchange to the private sector are subject to a 1.6 per cent exchange tax and a 2 per mill stamp tax. Bolivia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from June 5, 1967. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies.1 Imports and Import Payments All imports by public sector agencies require the prior authorization of the Ministry of National Economy. Private imports of certain commodi- ties also require such prior authorization; these goods include live cattle, various foodstuffs, raw 1 Ear ly in 1968, the Central Bank of Bolivia signed reciprocal credit agreements with the central banks of Argen t ina and Colombia. Payments between Bolivia and these countries could then be made through accounts ma in ta ined with each other by the central banks. cotton, and petroleum and petroleum products. All other goods may be imported freely. Exchange to pay for imports may be purchased in the free market. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, are subject to authorization by the Stabili- zation and Development Council. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles and capital transfers may be made freely through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to licensing. Exchange receipts from exports by official agencies must be sold to the Central Bank, with the exception of the portion required for their own use. Proceeds from other exports may be sold to commercial banks or to authorized exchange houses at the free market rate, or they may be retained by the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles may be sold in the free market. Capital Outward capital transfers by residents or non- residents are free of control and may be made through the free market; inward capital transfers also may be made through that market. All for- eign credits, including suppliers' credits, to gov- ernment agencies and autonomous entities, and official guarantees of such credits, are subject to prior authorization by the Stabilization and Development Council. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law of October 19, 1965, which guarantees the free convertibility and repatriation of profits and amortized capital. Companies established before the passage of this law may also benefit from its provisions. The law is administered by the Institute for the Promotion of Investment in Bolivia (INPIBOL). Invest- ments in petroleum and mining are governed by the Petroleum Code and the Mining Code. 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Gold By virtue of Supreme Decree No. 07771 of August 2, 1966, imports and exports of gold and domestic trading in gold are subject to regulation by the Central Bank. Residents may freely pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars in Bolivia. Exports and imports of gold other than gold jewelry are not normally permitted. Changes during 1967 February 8. Bolivia became a member of the Latin American Free Trade Association. April 27. Supreme Decree No. 07975 pro- hibited imports of cigarettes. June 5. Bolivia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. September 15. The ban on imports of diesel- powered motor vehicles and machinery was lifted by Supreme Decree No. 8096. December 29. The exchange tax on sales of foreign exchange to the private sector was reduced from 2 per cent to 1.6 per cent by virtue of Supreme Decree No. 08207. 42 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL * Exchange System On July 14, 1948, a par value for the Brazilian Cruzeiro was established by Brazil with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. The existing exchange arrangements have grown out of three foreign exchange markets: (1) the market of the monetary authorities, in which the Bank of Brazil carries out exchange operations for the account of the Central Bank, (2) the market of the authorized banks, and (3) the "manual market" where banknotes and travelers checks are negotiated. However, the policies pursued by the authorities have in practice unified the three mar- kets. The Bank of Brazil intervenes in the exchange markets on behalf of the Central Bank of Brazil whenever this is called for by the mone- tary authorities' policy of maintaining uniformity of exchange rate quotations. On March 1, 1968, the buying and selling rates quoted by the mone- tary authorities to the public were NCr$3.20 and NCr$3.22 per US$1, respectively; those quoted by the authorized banks for transactions other than in banknotes or travelers checks were NCr$3.20 buying, and NCr$3.21 selling, per US$1, and the rates in the "manual market" were NCr$3.20 buying, and NCr$3.22 selling, per US$1. Exchange rates for other currencies (including "agreement currencies" used for settle- ments with bilateral agreement countries) are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the dollar quotations for such currencies in inter- national markets. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) On the buying side other effective rates result f rom the following arrangements: (a) Special regulations apply to coffee exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below), (b) A 15 per cent contribution ("contribution quota" or quota de contribuigdo) is levied on proceeds from exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste, (c) A 15 per cent contribution is levied on pro- ceeds from exports of cocoa derivatives. On the selling side, a different effective rate may arise from the arrangements whereby Petrobras 1 In view of changes that took place early in 1968 (see note at the end of this su rv ey ), this survey presents the position on Ma rch 1, 1968. (national petroleum agency) concludes, at the beginning of each calendar quarter, an "open foreign exchange contract" with the Bank of Brazil for estimated requirements (as approved by the National Petroleum Council) during the corre- sponding calendar quarter of imports of petroleum and specified petroleum by-products; the exchange rate used is the free market rate, which is guaran- teed for the quarterly operations of Petrobras. The Bank of Brazil, acting on its own behalf or on behalf of the Central Bank, carries out a large proportion of all exchange transactions. The following arrangements assure the Bank of Brazil of a large portion of the country's foreign exchange receipts: (1) Authorized banks must surrender to the Bank of Brazil on behalf of the Central Bank (a) any foreign exchange in excess of a net posi- tion of US$25,000 at the close of the last working day of the week; (b) 70 per cent of the exporter's portion of the exchange proceeds of coffee exports; and (c) those exchange proceeds f rom coffee exports corresponding to the "contribution quota." (2) Petrobras surrenders its entire foreign exchange proceeds from certain exports of petro- leum on the basis of an agreement that grants it special facilities for imports of crude oil and petro- leum by-products. (3) Proceeds from exports of iron ore by the Vale do Rio Doce Company are surrendered to the Bank of Brazil, although there is no legal requirement that receipts from these exports be negotiated with or transferred to the Bank. Furthermore, exporters in regions not served by banks other than the Bank of Brazil sell their exchange proceeds to the Bank. The Bank of Brazil sells foreign exchange for the require- ments of the Government at the exchange rate pre- vailing on the date when a transaction is made. Like the other commercial banks, the Bank of Brazil also sells foreign exchange for payments in respect of a large number of imports, includ- ing crude oil and petroleum products, wheat, newsprint, fertilizers, and the requirements of the Vale do Rio Doce Company. Moreover, the Bank of Brazil handles for the account of the Central Bank all exchange transactions in bilateral cur- rencies (either direct or by transferring exchange to authorized banks or vice versa) and exchange transactions related to imports under U.S. aid. 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL All free market transactions in foreign exchange other than those undertaken by the Bank of Brazil are effected direct through authorized banks. They may not maintain a sold position in excess of US$500,000 on the last working day of the week; included in this limit is their "manual market" position (banknotes and travelers checks). The banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other but transfers between branches of the same bank in different trading centers are allowed, subject to certain conditions. The "manual market" is conducted mainly by exchange houses, which are not permitted to maintain a sold position. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council is responsible for the formulation of over-all foreign exchange policy. The control system is operated by the Exchange Operations Department of the Central Bank (GECAM) under the general direction of the Board of Directors of the Central Bank and the National Monetary Council. The Central Bank's exchange operations are handled by the Bank of Brazil. The National Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX) formulates foreign trade policy. The Ministry of Foreign A f fa i rs is the Council's execu- tive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil (CACEX) implements the Council's deci- sions within Brazil. The Foreign Trade Depart- ment issues export and import licenses, when required, as well as import certificates (guias de a rule, import certificates are issued freely and without undue delay. The import certificate entitles the importer to obtain a visa from the Brazilian consular authorities abroad which is required for shipment of the goods. The import certificate is valid for 120 days. Clearance of the goods through customs may be made against presenta- tion of the visaed import certificate and may take place before an exchange contract has been closed. The following rules apply with respect to the closing of exchange contracts for payment for imports. Spot contracts may be closed if the con- tract is intended to settle drafts, at sight or on maturity, and the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be settled within 2 working days. Forward con- tracts, for up to 180 days, may be closed when a letter of credit is being opened, or to pay for goods already shipped. Letters of credit must be opened within 5 working days from the date of the exchange contract. Commercial banks ordi- narily require a guarantee deposit for their own protection for forward exchange contracts; the amount of the deposit varies with the credit stand- ing of the customer. When the contracts are liquidated, guarantee deposits may be used for payment of the foreign exchange concerned. Inter- est at about 2 per cent is normally charged on the portion of the forward contract not covered by a deposit. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports (petroleum and petroleum products, wheat, and imports with foreign f inanc ing). For petroleum and specified petroleum by-products, Petrobras concludes quarterly "open foreign exchange contracts" with the Bank of Brazil. An "open contract" provides that during the calendar quarter actual exchange contracts may be closed up to a specified amount, at the exchange rate pre- vailing on the day when the "open contract" was concluded. The exchange contracts are entered into by Petrobras in accordance with the following arrangements made by the Bank of Brazil: 30 per cent of the value of a shipment must be paid no later than 8 working days after the week in which the shipment has taken place, and the remaining 70 per cent within 110 days after the date of shipment; for imports of liquid gas the remaining 70 per cent is to be paid within 140 days of ship- ment, with an option for advance settlement. The BRAZIL Bank of Brazil charges an interest rate of 1 per cent a month on the balance outstanding during the 110 days or 140 days. In accordance with the provisions of a Decree of October 27, 1966, exchange contracts for the purchase of crude oil and major petroleum products f rom a single foreign supplier in excess of specified quantities and terms of delivery may be closed only if the foreign supplier assumes a commitment to use at least 20 per cent of the value of total imports contracted for one of the following purposes: (1) to arrange for exports of Brazilian products; (2) to finance exports of Brazilian products; (3) to invest in risk capital of companies domiciled in Brazil; (4) to finance Petrobras in its exploration, refining, and production activities; and (5) other uses that may be approved by the National Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX). CONCEX is responsible for determining periodi- cally the products whose export should be pro- moted in this manner. In accepting tenders, pref- erence is, moreover, given to those foreign sup- pliers, who, while quoting a competitive price, are willing to assume in respect of part of the value of the contract any of the obligations described above, even though the contract is for an amount below that for which a commitment is obligatory. Petrobras must report to the Foreign Trade Department and the Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil all purchases of crude petroleum and by-products and, when a supplier under- takes to use a specified proportion of the proceeds according to one of the ways set out above, all details relating to such an undertaking. Balances corresponding to the value of commitments under- taken are released only to the extent that such commitments have been fulfilled. Where the com- mitments are of the voluntary kind referred to above, balances corresponding to the value of a commitment required of the foreign supplier have in the past been released after a maximum period of 180 days, if within that period it proved impos- sible to use these balances for the purposes defined in the decree. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and techni- cal assistance are governed by the provisions of the Profit Remittance Law (see below). Author- 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL ized banks may sell foreign exchange freely up to the equivalent of US$500 for personal remit- tances abroad. The sale of foreign exchange for travel abroad is subject to special regulations as described below. Payments for other current invisibles require the approval of GECAM, which authorizes remittances freely, subject to the pre- sentation of supporting documents as evidence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. Sales of foreign exchange to meet personal expenses connected with travel abroad are made in the "manual market." Such sales are per- mitted up to US$1,000 a person a trip, without the prior approval of the Central Bank, on the following terms: (1) in banknotes up to US$100, and (2) in payment orders or travelers checks for the rest. Applications for purchases of travel exchange in excess of US$ 1,000 must be submitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits. Amounts in excess of US$1,000, when authorized, may be taken up in the form of payment orders only. Foreign residents in transit in Brazil are permitted to purchase foreign cur- rency up to the equivalent of the amount they sold during the period of their stay in Brazil; how- ever, purchases in excess of 30 per cent of the amount previously sold require the approval of the Central Bank. Each purchase transaction is registered and the records of these operations, which must contain the name of the clients, are submitted daily to the Central Bank. The sale of tickets for international air travel to residents of Brazil is made against local currency upon presen- tation of valid passports. Remittances abroad of foreign capital, income from foreign investments and reinvestments, and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are governed by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regula- tions implementing the Profit Remittance Law (Law No. 4131, as amended by Law No. 4390). Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance, are registered at FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). Remittances are normally authorized in the cur- rency of registration. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization pay- 46 ments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the Certificate of Registration. A progressive supplementary income tax is levied on such remittances of earnings on foreign capital if their average over a three-year period exceeds 12 per cent of the registered capital and reinvest- ments. For foreign capital that produces goods or services for luxury consumption, remittances of profits are limited to 8 per cent per annum of registered capital. With the following exception, remittances are permitted freely in respect of royalties for the use of patents of inventions or of industrial and commercial trademarks, as well as in respect of technical, scientific, administrative, or similar assistance. Such remittances of royalties are not permitted by a branch or subsidiary estab- lished in Brazil to its head office abroad when at least 50 per cent of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign principal firm. Letters of credit opened for payment in incon- vertible or "agreement" currencies for imports contracted on an f.o.b. basis must contain a clause requiring that the goods be transported on a ship under the flag of Brazil or the exporting country. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign banknotes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Under the provisions of Law No. 5025 of June 10, 1966, exports, with only minor excep- tions, are free of licensing. Accordingly, exports are grouped into the following three categories: ( 1) free exports, (2) exports subject to control, and (3) prohibited exports. The first category includes the large majority of exports. The second category is limited to those goods that are con- sidered to require control in the national interest. The commodities included in the third category are exceptional cases regulated by specific laws. Exports of coffee are subject to authorization by the Brazilian Coffee Institute. The Brazilian Coffee Institute does not grant the authorization to export coffee unless the sale contract is based on a price per pound that is at least equal to the m in imum registration price (in U.S. dollars per pound, f.o.b.) fixed from time to time by the Institute. The minimum registra- tion price varies with the quality of the coffee and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the port of shipment, and the actual contract price may not be lower by more than US$0.02 per pound for coffee exports of higher quality and may not be lower by more than US$0.03 per pound for coffee exports of lower quality. Exporters of coffee are required to surrender with- out compensation a portion ("contribution quota") of their foreign exchange receipts;3 the cruzeiro equivalent of this portion is transferred to a Coffee Defense Fund. For the export proceeds in excess of the contribution quota, exporters receive ( 1) payment of a fixed cruzeiro amount per bag 4 determined from time to time by the Brazilian Coffee Institute and (2) payment of the full cruzeiro equivalent at the free market rate of any foreign exchange received in excess of the minimum registration price. To the extent that the foreign price obtained by the exporter is lower than the minimum registration price, the cruzeiro payment to the exporter is reduced; the reduction is calculated at the prevailing selling rate. Thus, the effective exchange rate for coffee exports depends on (i) the cruzeiro payment per bag, ( i i) the m in imum registration price, ( i i i) the actual price received (f.o.b. Brazil, in U.S. dollars per pound ), and ( iv) the free market rate. Based on payments per bag of coffee of NCr$74.50, NCr$70.30, NCr$66.10, NCr$53.60, and NCr$47.30 for d ifferent grades and ports of shipment, and corresponding minimum registra- tion prices per pound of US$0.375, US$0.365, US$0.355, US$0.325, and US$0.310, respec- tively, prevailing on March 1, 1968, and on the assumption that the foreign price obtained by the exporter was equal to the minimum registration price, the effective rates for proceeds from coffee exports on that date were NCr$ 1.505, NCr$ 1.459, NCr$ 1.410, NCr$ 1.249, and NCr$1.155 per US$1. Proceeds of exports of soluble coffee are not subject to the contribution quota and the exporter receives his full proceeds converted at the prevailing free market rate. In accordance with the provisions of various Resolutions of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, a price guarantee system for exports of Brazilian :'The amount of the con tr ibu t ion depends upon the applicable m i n im um registration price, the f ixed cruze iro amount paid per bag, and the current buying rate of the Bank of B raz i l. 4 The cruzeiro amount per bag varies w i th the qua l i ty of the coffee and the port of sh ipmen t. BRAZIL coffee has been maintained for specified periods of t im e5 (see section on Changes during 1967, below). Under these provisions a foreign importer of Brazilian coffee is entitled to compensation from the Institute, under specified conditions, for any reduction in the price of Brazilian coffee below the level at which the importer's purchase took place. The guarantee system announced on January 10, 1968 covers coffee registered for export at the Brazilian Coffee Institute until February 29, 1968. The shipment dates and guarantee periods under this system are as follows: Shipment Dates January 6-31, 1968 February 1-29, 1968 March 1-31, 1968 Guarantee Periods 60 days 45 days 30 days The compensation to be received by the foreign importer is to equal the difference between ( 1) the price of Santos 4 ex dock New York on the date of export registration at the Brazilian Coffee Insti- tute, and (2) the lowest similar price calculated on the basis of its moving average for periods of 10 consecutive market days, starting on the date of shipment. The compensation takes the form of a credit that the importer may use in payment for new direct purchases of coffee from Brazil. The credits are to be made available after April 30, 1968, and must be used within 90 days from the date of issue. On March 1, 1968 the above guarantee system was extended to coffee ship- ments made until the last day of the current crop regulations. For these shipments the price guaran- tee covers a period of 30 days from the date of shipment, and the compensation to be received by the foreign importer is to equal the difference between (1) the price of Santos 4 ex dock New York on the date of registration of the operation at the Brazilian Coffee Institute, and (2) the lowest similar price calculated on the basis of its moving average for periods of ten consecutive market days, starting on the date of shipment and 5 The re levant Resolutions are No. 341 of September 1, 1965, No. 346 of November 27, 1965, and No. 365 of June 29, 1966 for coffee exports in the period Septem- ber 1, 1965 un t il April 20, 1967; No. 417 of August 17, 1967 for coffee expor ts in the period August 17 un t il September 30, 1967; No. 426 of December 1, 1967 for coffee exports in the period December 1, 1967 until J anu a ry 5, 1968; and No. 428 of Janua ry 10, 1968 for coffee expo r ts in the period J a n u a ry 6 u n t il March 31, 1968. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL ending on the thirtieth day after shipment. The credits to foreign importers are to be made avail- able on the thirtieth day after publication of the new crop regulations for 1968/69. The proceeds from all other exports are also sold at freely negotiated exchange rates, but exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa paste are required to surrender without compensation 15 per cent of their exchange proceeds; and exporters of cocoa derivatives (butter, cake, and powder) are required to surrender without compensation 5 per cent of exchange proceeds. The cruzeiro equiva- lent of these deductions is used to finance a pro- gram of price support and plantation improvement for cocoa. In accordance with the provisions of Law No. 5072 of August 12, 1966, which empowers the National Monetary Council to impose export taxes for the purpose of smoothing out the domes- tic impact of variations in international prices and of conserving export revenue, a 20 per cent tax is levied on exports of seven types of hide.6 The tax is applied on the difference between the sale price of the exports and the official "base" prices, when this difference exceeds 5 per cent of the established "base" prices. The tax proceeds are collected by the commercial banks through which the exchange transactions are made and are deposited by them on a special reserve account ("reserva monetdria") held by the Central Bank. CACEX may, through the Fund for Export Financing (F INEX ), finance exports of consumer durable goods and capital goods against payment at medium term and long term, provided that the suppliers' credit does not exceed 80 per cent of the invoiced value. Credits granted for more than one year may be refinanced by CACEX for the fu ll amount payable, provided that the exporter has given the necessary guarantees and that the ma tu r i ty of the loan is considered compatible with the value of the exports and the terms for suppliers' credits prevailing in world markets. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom current invisibles are sold through the Bank of Brazil or the authorized ° T h is tax was e l im in a t ed on Ma rch 25, 1968 by Cen- t r al B a nk R e so lu t ion 90. 48 banks at the prevailing market rate. Travelers checks and foreign banknotes are sold in the "manual market." Travelers may bring in domes- tic and foreign currency notes freely. Capital Inward transfers are unrestricted and free of control. For the purpose of repatriation and the remittance of income, however, foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be registered with FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment which have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange and which are to be used to produce goods or to render services, and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in economic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital is classified, for purposes of registration, as direct investments or loans, whether imported in the form of money or goods, and it includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Direct investment is defined as that for- eign capital which constitutes part of corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inherent in an economic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise and that does not participate directly in capital risk is considered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whether conceded by the manufac turer himself or a third party, is considered to be financing (mostly suppliers' cred i t). Loans are considered to be cash loans when monetary or financial resources are brought into Brazil. To register foreign capital, it is necessary to prove that the capital has entered Brazil. The registration of capital is made in the currency in which it entered the country. For financed imports and for investments made in the form of goods, registration is made in the currency of the country of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head o f f ice) or, in special circumstances, in the currency of the country of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in foreign currency, it is necessary to certify that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the country of the lender, and that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of comparable goods in the country of origin. If FIRCE approves the terms of financing, it issues a certificate of authorization to CACEX. The latter, in turn, examines the application in the light of the price and essentiality of the proposed import and of the availability of similares nationals.1 If CACEX approves the application, it grants an import license. The registration of direct investment is subject to the following rules: The capital that enters or has entered Brazil is registered in foreign cur- rency. Reinvestments are defined as profits of companies established in Brazil and accrued to persons or companies resident or domiciled abroad; such profits must have been reinvested in the same companies that produced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simul- taneously in Brazilian currency and in the cur- rency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calculated at the average exchange rate prevailing between the date on which the profits were earned, or appeared on the balance sheet in the case of a company, and the date of their reinvestment. To provide a more normal basis for the supply of working capital in Brazil by foreign investors, the Bank of Brazil under the provisions of SUMOC Instruction 289 enters into repurchase arrange- ments which provide that the seller of foreign exchange may subsequently repurchase equivalent foreign exchange, free of restrictions, guarantee deposits, or financial charges, and that the pro- cedure for registration to satisfy the requirements of the Profit Remittance Law will be both immedi- ate and automatic. The repurchase must be a spot transaction-in the free market with any authorized bank (or with the Bank of Brazil if it so elects) and does not involve an exchange rate guarantee; the repurchase rights may be exercised in whole 7 As determined in accordance w i th guidelines estab- lished by the Customs Policy Council. BRAZIL or in part after 60 days but will expire after 360 days. Moreover, to facilitate the use of foreign credits by Brazilian enterprises, Central Bank Resolution 63 authorizes private commercial and investment banks to take up foreign credits for relending to the domestic private sector for the purpose of financing fixed or working capital. The safe- guards against excessive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obligations that each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the pro- vision that the ultimate borrower must agree to assume the exchange risk involved in these trans- actions. The certificate of registration of the loan for the purposes of the Profits Remittance Law is furnished by FIRCE upon application. Other transfers to foreign countries require authorization by GECAM, which considers appli- cations on their merits. Exchange transactions con- cerning private capital are effected through an authorized bank or the Bank of Brazil at freely negotiated rates. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell in Brazil gold coins. Purchases of gold are ruled by Law No. 4425 of November 2, 1964. Resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and licensed industrial users are not permitted to pur- chase, hold, or sell gold (other than alloys for dental use) abroad unless special permission is obtained from the Central Bank. Producers of gold must sell 20 per cent of their output to the National Treasury, through the Bank of Brazil, at the official market price, i.e., at US$35 per ounce; the other 80 per cent remains at the free disposal of the person concerned. The import of gold is subject to the issuance of an import cer- tificate by CACEX. Exports of gold coins and gold bars are prohibited and the export of gold in any other form (except jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler) requires an export license. 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Table of Exchange Rates (as at March 1, 1968)8 (New cruzeiros per U.S. dollar) Buying 1.155-1.505 (Free Market Rate for Cruzeiro Payment a Bag and Minimum Registration Price) ° Coffee exports effected at a price equal to the minimum registration price, for payment at sight. 2.72 (Free Market Rate less 15% Contribution Quota) Exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste. 3.04 (Free Market Rate less 5% Contribution Quota) Exports of cocoa der iva t ives. 3.20 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign bankno tes and trave lers checks. 3.20 (Free Market Rate) All other export proceeds. Other receipts. Changes during 1967 The Brazilian Coffee Institute raised the mini- mum registration price (f.o.b. Brazil, U.S. dollars per pound) for exports of washed coffee (despolpado) for payment at sight by US$0.01 for the period from June 13 to August 18, 1967, when it was reduced again by the same amount. On November 1, 1967, the minimum registration price was lowered for exports of all grades of coffee for payment at sight by US$0.01; on Janu- ary 10, 1968, it was raised again by US$0.01 for exports of washed coffee to the level prevailing prior to November 1, 1967. The slightly higher minimum registration prices for exports shipped against 90-day bills were discontinued on Novem- ber 1, 1967. The cruzeiro payment per bag (132 pounds) of the various grades of coffee was increased on three occasions (on February 13 and June 12, 1967, and again on January 10, 1968). The above measures changed correspondingly the effective exchange rates applicable to proceeds from coffee exports. January 1. The stamp tax and other obligatory charges previously levied on most exchange trans- actions were eliminated. February 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Czechoslovakia was terminated and payments 8 W i th the exception of the "manual marke t" rates and the rate app l icab le to petroleum and petroleum products, the e f fec t ive rates included in th is table are based on exchange rates of the monetary au tho r i t ies of NCr$3.20 buy ing, and NCr$3.22 selling, per US$1. 0 The cruzeiro payment per bag and the m in imum reg is t ra t ion price va ry w i th the qua l i ty of the coffee and the port of sh ipmen t. 50 I Selling 3.22 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign bankno tes and travelers checks. 3.22 (Free Market Rate) Imports.10 Invisibles. Capital. between the two countries were made in con- vertible currencies. Imports covered by medium- term or long-term financing and already registered could be settled in agreement dollars up to June 30, 1967. February 9. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from Cr$2,200 and Cr$2,220 to Cr$2,700 and Cr$2,715 per U.S. dollar, respectively. February 13. A new monetary unit, the "'new cruzeiro," replaced the cruzeiro at a rate of 1 to 1,000, resulting in buying and selling rates of NCr$2.700 and NCr$2.715 per U.S. dollar, respectively. February 14. Decree Law 169 reduced virtually all import duties by 20 per cent. February 28. The name of the central bank was changed to the Central Bank of Brazil. March 1. Decree Law 63 of November 21, 1966 was implemented. It provided for an over- all reduction of customs duties, notably on imports of raw materials and intermediate goods, and for the lowering of the highest tariff rate from 150 per cent to 120 per cent ad valorem. March 1. Decree Law 264 of February 28, 1967 revoked Decree Law 169, except for imports from LAFTA countries of commodities on Brazil's National Concession List, and provided for fu r ther 10 The e f fec t ive rate for Petrobras imports of petroleum and specified petroleum by-products is determined by its quar ter ly contracts with the Bank of Brazil, which guarantee the application of the free market rate to Petrobras' operations du r ing the quarter. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tariff reductions applicable to all duties except those of 10 per cent or less. The highest tariff rate was decreased from 120 per cent to 100 per cent ad valorem. March 1. Imports of commodities listed under the Special Category became subject to the regu- lations applicable to the General Category. March 10. Resolution 12 of the National Coun- cil of Foreign Trade eliminated the requirement of export licenses, except for a number of specified commodities. April 20. The price guarantee system estab- lished in September 1965, whereby foreign import- ers of Brazilian coffee were compensated, under specified conditions, for any reduction in the price of Brazilian coffee or any fa ll of the International Coffee Agreement indicator price, was suspended. May 11. The Central Bank of Brazil announced the elimination of the 30 per cent contribution quota that had applied to proceeds f rom exports of beef f rom the Central Zone of the country. June 1. In accordance with Central Bank Cir- cular 90, authorized institutions operating in the "manual market" were required to identify pur- chasers of foreign banknotes and travelers checks and were made subject to the penalties set out in existing laws for declaration of false identi- fications. Previously, such identification require- ments and penalties were not enforced for trans- actions in the "manual market." June 8. An Exchange Stabilization Fund was established. July 12. The Exchange Control Sector of the Central Bank (FICAM) was abolished and replaced by the Exchange Operations Depart- ment (GECAM ). August 16. The bilateral trade and payments agreement with Mainland China was terminated and all transactions with that country were settled in convertible currencies. August 17. In accordance with Central Bank Resolution 62, sales of foreign exchange in the "manual market" to residents in the form of bank- notes and travelers checks were restricted to amounts required for personal expenses connected with travel abroad and were made subject to the presentation of evidence showing compliance with income tax obligations. Foreign residents in trans it BRAZIL in Brazil were permitted to purchase foreign exchange currency up to the equivalent of the amount they sold during the period of their stay in Brazil; however, purchases in excess of 30 per cent of the amount they had previously sold required the approval of the Central Bank. The documentary evidence of compliance with income tax obligations was to be forwarded daily to the Central Bank, together with the records of the relative purchase and/or sales transactions signed by the customer. August 17. The Brazilian Coffee Institute rein- troduced a price guarantee system (see April 20) applicable to coffee exports shipped during the period August 17-September 30, 1967. Accord- ing to this system, a foreign importer of Brazilian coffee was entitled to a compensation equal to the difference between the price of Santos 4 ex dock New York on the date of export registration at the Brazilian Coffee Institute and the lowest similar price occurring in the remainder of 1967. This compensation took the form of a credit entitling the importer to purchase coffee in Brazil in the amount of the compensation through normal com- mercial channels. The credits were to be made available at the beginning of 1968, and shipment of the coffee purchased with them had to take place within 90 days from the date of issue of such credits. August 21. Central Bank Resolution 63 author- ized banks to obtain foreign credits, under certain conditions, for relending to the domestic private sector to finance capital expenditures in Brazil. August 29. The provision for the issue of certificates of authorization for a large number of remittances relating to foreign investments under a guarantee bond procedure (termo de responsa- bilidade) was discontinued. The system had been operative since early 1965 in order to eliminate the administrative barriers to such remittances which had developed as a result of the large back- log of applications for registration of foreign capital; under the termo de responsabilidade remittances could be made in advance of the completion of registration. September 20. The monetary authorities ceased to provide exchange cover to authorized banks except for a number of specified transactions. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL September 21. Central Bank Resolution 68 reduced f rom 90 per cent to 70 per cent the pro- portion of exchange proceeds resulting from coffee exports that commercial banks had to surrender to the Central Bank. September 29. Agreements were signed with Mexico and Peru, providing for the extension of reciprocal credit lines within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. October 12. Decree Law 333 provided for an over-all increase in ta r i f fs by 5 per cent effective January 1, 1968; exempt from this import sur- charge were bound tariff rates when the resultant rate would exceed the amount agreed by treaty, and commodities already exempt from import duty. November 1. A system of bonuses was intro- duced that changed the range of effective buying rates for coffee from NCr$1.06-1.38 to NC r$ l .l 1- 1.46. The system was terminated on December 31. December 1. The Brazilian Coffee Institute pro- vided for a guarantee system to foreign importers applicable to purchases of coffee made in Brazil and shipped in the period December 1, 1967- January 5, 1968. According to this system a for- eign importer was entitled to a compensation equal to the difference between the price of Santos 4 ex dock New York on the date of the export registration at the Brazilian Coffee Institute and the lowest similar price calculated on the basis of its moving average for periods of 10 consecutive marketing days beginning on January 8 and end- ing on March 15, 1968. The compensation was to take the form of a credit entitling the importer to use it in payment for new direct purchases of cof- fee from Brazil. The credits are to be made avail- able af ter March 15, 1968, and shipment of the coffee purchased with them had to take place within 90 days from the date of issue of such credits. December 29. The Central Bank announced a change, effective January 4, 1968, in the official buying and selling rates f rom NCr$2.700 and NCr$2.715 per US$1, respectively, to NCr$3.20 and NCr$3.22 per US$1, respectively. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1968: 52 January 1. The customs dispatch tax of 5 per cent on the value of imports was eliminated. Import duties were raised correspondingly (see October 12, 1967). January 3. Central Bank Resolution 84 pro- vided that sales of foreign exchange in the "manual market" to meet personal expenses connected with travel abroad were permitted up to US$1,000 or the equivalent in other currencies without the prior approval of the Central Bank, on specified terms. Applications for purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad in excess of US$1,000 had to be submitted to the Central Bank. The Central Bank subsequently authorized such purchases in accor- dance with the merits of each case. The purchaser of the foreign exchange was no longer required to present evidence showing compliance with income tax obligations, but the requirement that each purchase transaction be registered and that the records of registration of these operations be delivered daily to the Central Bank continued to be in force (see June 1 and August 17, 1967). January 3. Central Bank Resolution 82 pro- vided that clearance of imports through customs was no longer subject to the prior closing of an exchange contract. Previously, an importer had to close an exchange contract in payment for imports (which could be closed forward for up to 180 days) prior to the clearance of the goods through customs. It was also provided that exchange contracts in payment for imports could only be closed against presentation of documen- tary evidence of a genuine import transaction. In addition, Central Bank GECAM Announce- ment 42 changed the rules for the closing of for- ward exchange contracts in payment for imports. Forward contracts in payment for imports could henceforth be closed only when it was intended to open a letter of credit, or to pay for goods already shipped. A credit had to be opened within 5 working days from the date of the exchange contract. Previously, it was possible to enter into forward contracts without proving that a genuine import transaction was involved. The above two measures were designed to prevent purely specu- lative transactions. January 3. Central Bank Resolution 83 revoked the right previously extended by SUMOC Instruc- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL tion 289 to repurchase foreign exchange brought in under the provisions of this instruction on a forward basis. January 3. Central Bank Resolution 84 obliged authorized banks to include thek "manual market" operations in the calculation relating to thek maxi- mum allowable sold position. Exchange houses authorized to deal exclusively in "manual market" operations were not permitted to maintain sold positions. January 10. The Brazilian Coffee Institute rein- troduced a price guarantee system for coffee regis- tered for export until February 29, 1968 (see December 1, 1967). January 15. The compulsory use of brokerage fkms previously prescribed for most foreign exchange operations was abolished. The measure eliminated the obligatory charge of a brokerage fee of 0.1875 per cent which was previously incurred on exchange transactions. January 29. Agreement was reached between the Brazilian and Danish authorities to terminate the bilateral payments agreement between the two countries effective March 31,1968. March 1. The Brazilian Coffee Institute extended the price guarantee system announced on Janu- ary 10 to cover coffee exports shipped up to the last day of the 1967/68 crop year. 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Burmese Kyat or K 4.76190 = US$1. The buying and selling rates for sterling of the State Commercial Bank are Is. 9%d. and Is. 8%d., respectively, per K 1. The State Commercial Bank's buying and selling rates for currencies other than the pound sterling are within the limits of the minimum buying and max imum selling rates fixed by the Union Bank of Burma. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board through the Exchange Control Department of the Union Bank of Bu rma. Exports are handled by the Myanma Export- Import Corporation (METC or Trade Corporation No. 22 ). The MEIC also imports goods for the use of the private sector. Government agencies and departments make imports of goods for their own use including imports under loan and aid agreements in the name of the MEIC. Most pay- ments and imports are made in accordance with an annual foreign exchange budget. Prescription of Currency Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an External Account in Burma. Receipts must be collected in convertible currencies or to the debit of an External Account in Bu rma. Imports and Import Payments An import program is drawn up annua l ly as part of the foreign exchange budget. All imports are made by, or in the name of, the MEIC. All imports f rom Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Also prohibited are imports of a few commodities f rom any source —principally opium and similar narcotics, monkeys, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion. All paymen ts for imports are made through the State Commercial Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to licens- ing. In general, paymen ts for items connected 54 with foreign trade are allowed automatically, and paymen ts for most other purposes are considered on a case-to-case basis. Payments for member- ship fees to educational or technical institutions abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are as a rule allowed freely; the same applies to rental fees for motion-picture films that have been permitted to be exhibited. Family remittances are permitted only by foreign municipal workers or foreign technicians employed under contract by the Government. Remittances of income resulting from investment other than that guaranteed under the Investment Act have been temporarily suspended. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employ- ees of foreign nationality who served the Govern- ment as Burmese nationals but took up foreign citizenship before departure from Burma is not permitted. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by residents have been temporarily suspended. However, residents granted an official permit to go abroad for any purpose may take out freely the equivalent of K 50 in the currency of the country of destination (except Ind ia) or, if that currency is not available, in sterling notes. On leaving, non- resident travelers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert one fou r th of the amount of foreign currency which they had converted into kyats. The export of Burmese currency notes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are effected by the MEIC. There is a list of prohibited exports: iron and steel, brass, copper and a lum inum and scraps thereof, foreign manu fac tu res, and commodities of domestic origin which it is desired to conserve for domestic require- ments. All exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are prohibited. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities; the exchange must be sur- rendered to the State Commercial Bank within six mon ths from the date of shipment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Travelers may bring in, subject to declaration, any amount in foreign currency. The import of Burmese currency notes is prohibited. Capital Foreign investments in Burma are governed by the provisions of the Union of Burma Investment Act, 1959 and the Investment Rules of February 25, 1960 issued under authority of the Act. Invest- ment proposals are considered by an Investment Committee, to ascertain whether the proposed enterprise will utilize domestic raw materials, increase domestic employment, conserve foreign exchange, and generally conform to the economic plans of the Government. However, since Febru- ary 15, 1963, when the Government announced a new policy of nationalization, permission has not been granted for any foreign private investment in Burma. The investment law provides for the transfer abroad of profits af ter taxes and for the withdrawal of imported capital at any time after five years from the time of entry, in annual quotas not exceeding 25 per cent of its original value. Pro- ceeds from the liquidation or sale of an enterprise may also be transferred abroad. All such transfers BURMA may be made at the official rate of exchange pre- vailing at the time of the transaction. The repatriation of personal assets and family remittances has been temporarily suspended for foreign nationals employed in the private sector. When the transfer abroad of payments in favor of nonresidents is not permitted, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to kyat nonresident accounts. Certain debits and credits to such accounts require prior permission. Residents are not usually permitted to remit funds abroad for investment. The import, export, and transfer of securities involving nonresident interests require individual licenses. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold in Burma but not abroad. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry are subject to the following arrangement, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Commercial imports and exports of gold in any form require a license from the Union Bank of Burma; such licenses are not at present being granted. Changes during 1967 No significant changes took place during 1967. 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0101562 gram of fine gold per Burundi Franc or FBu 87.50 = US$1. This rate is applicable to all transactions. The official rates on December 31, 1967 were FBu 87.22 buy- ing, and FBu 87.93 selling, per US$1. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transac- tions at rates between the buying and selling rates fixed by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi for currencies quoted by that bank l and at rates fixed freely with their customers for certain other cur- rencies.2 Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the Bank of the Repub- lic of Burundi; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to three author- ized banks. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments may be made in any cur- rency; receipts must be obtained in one of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Nonresident Accounts Certain nonresidents may ma in ta in nonresident accounts in foreign currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the central bank and is restricted to ( 1) physical persons of foreign nationality who are resident abroad and (2) juridical persons hav- ing branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign exchange that is received from abroad. They may be debited freely for ( 1) conversion into Burundi francs required to pay any expenses in Burundi and ( 2) payments abroad for travel and represen- tation or for the purchase price of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not 1 These currencies are Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 These currencies are Angolan escudos, East Afr ican sh i l l ing s, Rhodes ian pounds, and South Afr ican rand. 56 be overdrawn; the related bank charges and com- missions may be settled in Burundi francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports except trade samples and merchan- dise not intended for sale and valued up to FBu 20,000 require licenses; these are issued freely, except for certain used clothing. Applica- tions for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic of Burundi on a form entitled Import License and Payment Authorization. The approval of such an application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, applications for amounts under FBu 100,000 are approved by the author- ized banks. Import licenses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The license is valid for a period of seven months starting at the end of the month following that of validation; in special cases, ex- tensions may be granted by the central bank. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clearance form, called the Con- sumption Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the central bank by the customs office. Advance deposits calculated on the c.i.f. value are required for certain luxury goods from importers whose outstanding exchange commit- ments against import licenses are the equivalent of FBu 100,000 or over. The deposit on such com- modities is 100 per cent; it is not required, how- ever, when the goods are imported in small amounts, i.e., when the amount of the license is less than FBu 10,000. The deposit must be made at the time the import license application is approved; it is released when the import payment is made. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Transfers of up to two thirds of net salaries and emoluments of foreign nationals are freely per- mitted upon proof of payment of taxes. For unin- corporated businesses and professional persons, transfers are freely permitted of two thirds of income after taxes. Companies may freely trans- fer their full net income after taxes, or, if the stock- holders or managers are resident foreign nationals, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution two thirds of income after taxes. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are authorized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that con- sist of unremitted savings or of the proceeds of the sale of their personal effects. Transfer of income from rental properties to nonresident owners is permitted after payment of taxes and deduction of normal maintenance expenses; resident owners may remit two thirds of such incoijie. Residents of Burundi nationality may purchase reasonable amounts of exchange for foreign travel; they may take out this exchange and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. In addition, residents may freely purchase foreign travel tickets up to cer- tain limits against payment in Burundi francs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over FBu 3,000 are sub- ject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange. The Declarations must be presented for certification by the central bank through an authorized bank, with the excep- tion of those for certain commodities exported on consignment (mainly coffee, cotton, and hides), which may be certified by authorized banks. Declarations are valid for a period of six months, but extensions may be granted by the central bank. Payments must be collected not later than 45 days after the goods have left the country when they are sold to neighboring countries, and not later than 90 days for goods shipped to other destinations. All exchange proceeds from exports must be sur- rendered to an authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. Capital The Investment Code of August 25, 1967 pro- vides for fiscal and other benefits for domestic and foreign private investors. New investment that fulfills specified conditions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the invest- BURUNDI ment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, during a period of 5 years, for other merchandise needed for the manufacturing operation or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may be likewise reduced or suspended. Enterprises which are granted priority status may obtain protection against foreign competition, priority in the allocation of government contracts, and a guarantee from the central bank for the free transfer of profits and dividends as well as the repatriation of the invested capital. In addi- tion to these privileges, companies undertaking investments that are considered to be of prime importance to Burundi's economic development may be granted, under a separate convention, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for a period of up to 15 years. An Investment Commission under the Minister of Planning is charged with examining requests for priority status and granting the necessary authorization. Capital transfers by residents require individual authorization, which is rarely given, except in the case of foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted. The guarantee is given to foreign exchange imported in specified currencies (see footnote 1) by resident enterprises for working capital purposes and is valid for one year from the date on which the exchange is sur- rendered to the central bank through an authorized bank. The guarantee provides for the transfer at the official rate of the original amount sur- rendered. Gold Dealings in gold coins must be carried out through authorized banks. Imports and exports of gold require licenses and are normally made only by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1967 September 6. A new Investment Code entered into force and replaced the Investment Code of August 6, 1963. September 11. The 50 per cent advance deposit requirement previously applicable to specified imports was terminated. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA 1 Exchange Rate System The Cambodian Riel is defined as a monetary unit containing 0.0253905 gram of fine gold. Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling are carried out at parity rates based on the gold content of the riel and the respective currencies; these rates are CR 35 = US$1 and CR 84 = <£!. The official parity for the French franc, however, is fixed at CR 10 = F 1; this rate is applicable to most settlements in French francs. Foreign tourists staying at all officially listed hotels are given coupons for CR 25 over and above the rate of CR 35 for each U.S. dollar sold (coupons for CR 2 over and above the rate of CR 10 for each French franc sold). Sales and purchases of foreign banknotes quoted on the Phnom-Penh official market are made at the selling rate plus 3 per cent and at the buying rate minus 1 per cent, respectively. Rates for foreign banknotes quoted "indicatively" on that market are determined by the authorized banks on the basis of the average rates announced by the National Bank of Cambodia plus a com- mission of 1 per cent for purchases and of 4 per cent for sales. Authorized banks are empowered to negotiate for their own account, and at a rate mutually agreed with their customers, foreign banknotes other than those quoted officially or "indicatively" by the National Bank of Cam- bodia. Arbitrage operations involving convertible cur- rencies may be authorized by the National Exchange Office. If the operations take place in Cambodia, they are carried out at the rate of the day on the Phnom-Penh exchange market. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Exchange Office in cooperation with the National Bank of Cambodia; this office is empow- ered to authorize all operations related to settle- ments with foreign countries, to foreign invest- ments, and to nonresident accounts. All import and export transactions are effected by the National Import-Export Corporation 1 Cambod ia is not a member of the In te rna t ional Mone- t a ry Fund. 58 (Societe Nationale d'Exportation et d'lmportation or SONEXIM). The Ministry of National Econ- omy is in charge of import and export controls, but it has delegated this authority to the Director of Foreign Trade. Import and export licenses are issued by SONEXIM and must be domiciled with either of the two State banks, i.e., the Cambodian Bank of Commerce or the National Credit (Ina- dana J a t i ); the bank's visa is required before licenses are presented to customs. Prescription of Currency Settlements with 11 countries with which Cam- bodia has bilateral payments arrangements are made through bilateral accounts. Those main- tained for Albania, Mainland China, Czechoslo- vakia, Eastern Germany, North Korea, Poland, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam are denomi- nated in pounds sterling, and those for Bulgaria, Hungary, and Yugoslavia in U.S. dollars. Currencies prescribed for settlements with other countries are usually specified in the licenses. Payments for imports from the French Franc Area must be made in French francs. Payments for imports from other countries are ordinarily made in the currency of the country of the exporter. Foreign investments must be made in a cur- rency acceptable to the National Bank. Profits on, and proceeds from the liquidation of, foreign investments may be transferred abroad in the currency in which the investment was made. Nonresident Accounts The following categories of account may be maintained for nonresidents: Foreigners' Accounts in Riels, Capital Accounts, Nonresi- dent Accounts, and Foreign Currency Accounts. In addition, Cambodian nationals staying abroad temporarily but not recognized as nonresidents, and foreigners staying in Cambodia but not rec- ognized as residents, may maintain special Internal Accounts of Nonresidents. Foreigners' Accounts in Riels may be opened, without permission, for foreigners residing abroad. They are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They may be freely credited with ( 1) proceeds from the sale on the Phnom- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Penh market of the currency (but not banknotes) of the country of the account holder; (2) pay- ments for authorized imports (including incidental expenses) from the country of the account holder; (3) earnings on investments in Cambodia and receipts from repayments on Cambodian stocks and bonds and on other investments made in Cambodia af ter May 1956; and (4) interest paid by the banks on funds kept in the accounts. These accounts may be freely debited for normal expenses in Cambodia and purchases on the Phnom-Penh market of banknotes of the country of the account holder. Transfers between For- eigners' Accounts in Riels related to the same country may be made freely. Capital Accounts may be opened without per- mission. Subject to authorization, these accounts may be credited with (1) proceeds from the sale in Cambodia of Cambodian stocks and bonds imported from abroad or kept with an authorized bank in a dossier related to the country of the account holder; (2) proceeds from the sale in Cambodia of participations in corporations other than by purchases of stocks and bonds; (3) con- tractual or advance repayments of Cambodian stocks and bonds; (4) proceeds from the sale through an authorized notary of real estate or businesses located in Cambodia and in the posses- sion of a nonresident account holder since Janu- ary 1, 1955 or acquired by him either through inheritance or with the permission of the National Exchange Office; (5) repayment of loans granted to residents prior to January 1, 1955, or after that date with the approval of the National Exchange Office; and (6) transfers from another capital account related to the country of the account holder. Capital Accounts may be freely debited for ( 1) living expenses of the account holder or his fam i ly up to CR 1,000 a person a day, and up to a max imum of CR 50,000 monthly, and (2) expenses connected with the administration of foreign assets in Cambodia (stocks and bonds, buildings, land, e tc .). Subject to authorization from the National Exchange Office, these accounts may be debited for ( 1) purchases in Cambodia of Cambodian stocks and bonds; (2) subscrip- tions to, or increases in capital of, a Cambodian firm; ( 3) purchases through an authorized notary of title to real estate or businesses located in Cam- bodia; (4) loans in riels to residents; (5) trans- fers to another capital account related to the CAMBODIA country of the account holder; (6) living expenses in Cambodia of the account holder's employees if the account is held by a firm (corporation, bank, etc .); and (7) gifts to individuals and to social, cultural, and religious associations. Nonresident Accounts may be opened only upon authorization. They may be freely debited for (1) taxes in Cambodia, (2) miscellaneous accounting, correspondence expenses, etc., and (3) living expenses in Cambodia of the account holder and his fam i ly, up to CR 2,000 a day. All other operations through these accounts are subject to individual licensing. Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened only upon authorization. They may be freely credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad. Account holders may use balances on these accounts ( 1) to cover expenses abroad, such as those related to travel, missions, and the purchase of foreign merchandise, and (2) to cover expenses of any kind in Cambodia by converting balances on these accounts into riels on the Phnom-Penh exchange market. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents may be opened only upon authorization. Balances on these accounts may not be used for transfers abroad. The accounts may be freely credited with (1) proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange on the Phnom-Penh market; (2) trans- fers from Foreigners' Accounts in Riels; (3) wages, salaries, allowances, and payments for expenses of Cambodian nationals employed by Cambodian firms and temporarily residing abroad; (4) income earned in Cambodia by account holders; (5) redeposits of previous withdrawals; and (6) repayment of loans granted to residents out of balances in such accounts. The accounts may be freely debited for (1) living expenses in Cambodia of the account holder or his family, (2) administrative expenses related to the account holder's property in Cambodia, and (3) loans to residents. All other operations through these accounts require authorization. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain commodities is pro- hibited for reasons of health or security and that of certain other goods for protective reasons. An annual import program is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce. Twice a year, the 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA National Bank of Cambodia places at the disposal of the Ministry a specific amount of foreign exchange to pay for the programed imports. Cer- tain imports outside the import program (imports "sans devises" or imports "without exchange") are permitted if no official exchange is requested. Permitted imports are classified in seven lists. The list of "financeable" imports contains those commodities subject neither to a compensation charge (perequation) nor to a fixed resale price. Commodities in lists A and B are subject to com- pensation charges of CR 46 and CR 41.5 per U.S. dollar, respectively.2 For commodities in list C, the compensation charge is CR 35 per U.S. dollar.3 Commodities in list D require a com- pensation charge of 10-50 per cent of the c.i.f. price. List E contains the commodities that are sold by SONEXIM to local distributors at fixed prices. There is also a list of commodities that may be imported on a barter basis ("en echanges exchange for tourist travel and business travel has been suspended. The export of Cambodian currency is pro- hibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are effected by SONEXIM, in accordance with an annual export program pre- pared by the Ministry of Commerce. There is a special list of products that may be exported on a barter basis ("en echanges compenses"). Export proceeds are surrendered to the National Exchange Office. Proceeds front Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. Foreign tourists staying at all officially listed hotels are given coupons for CR 25 over and above the rate of CR 35 for each U.S. dollar sold (CR 2 over and above the rate of CR 10 for each French franc sold) for their room and restaurant charges. Foreign tourists receive this premium also on purchases of souvenirs in stores designated by the Ministry of Tourism and for their expenses in group travel arranged by the Societe Khmere des Auberges Royales. Only au- thorized banks and approved hotels may purchase foreign exchange from travelers. Approved hotels must surrender to authorized banks the foreign exchange that they acquire from foreign travelers; the corresponding exchange may be credited to "Tourism SONEXIM Accounts." Such accounts may be used by the holder to import commodities. Hotel bills may be remitted in dels by foreign citizens on official travel upon producing a state- ment issued by their embassy certifying the pay- ment of these expenses through its own funds held in clearing accounts or from the sale of foreign currencies. The import of Cambodian currency is prohibited. Foreign exchange must be declared by travelers when entering Cambodia; if imported by residents, such exchange must be surrendered within seven days from the day of entry into Cam- bodia. Capital All capital transfers require individual licenses. No transfer abroad of proceeds from the sale of property by a foreigner to a foreigner is per- mitted. Foreigners who sell their property to CAMBODIA Cambodians and leave Cambodia permanently may transfer initially up to 20 per cent of the proceeds of the sale; up to 20 per cent of the remainder may be authorized for transfer annu- ally, when the total amount involved is small. Funds representing the repayment of loans origi- nally granted in foreign currency may be consid- ered transferable income. Since May 31, 1956, all foreign investments have been subject to authorization from the Minis- try of Finance, which requires that a certain per- centage of the capital of an enterprise should be reserved for Cambodian participation and that its employees should be Cambodians. Only invest- ments for the creation of activities recognized as useful to the economic development of the coun- try and not involving monopoly or special privilege may be authorized. Proceeds from the liquidation of authorized investments made after May 31, 1956 may be transferred in yearly installments not exceeding 20 per cent of the total invest- ment. Up to 10 per cent of the proceeds from the liquidation of investments made prior to May 31, 1956 may be authorized for transfer every year. Foreign capital invested after May 31, 1956 is guaranteed the same tax treatment that is applied to resident investments; in addition, spe- cial incentives (partial exemption from duties and taxes on reinvested profits, and on equipment goods or raw materials imported during the first year of operation) may be accorded to foreign investment considered as exceptionally useful to the Cambodian economy. There is a guarantee of 10-30 years against risks of nationalization or expropriation, and for a just and equitable indem- nity in the event of nationalization or expropria- tion of investments. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cambodia for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the National Bank of Cambodia; such licenses are not normally granted 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1967 January 1. The system of barter or compensa- tion trade (echanges compenses) was expanded; in trade with all countries, the proceeds of speci- fied exports could be used entirely for the import of other listed commodities. February 11. The import program for 1967 was announced. It envisaged total imports valued at CR 2.6 billion. April 1. A tax ranging from CR 100 to CR 1,000 was levied on imports of radio and television sets. April 19. Notice No. 1089-DCE/3B of the Ministry of Commerce amended the perequation system for imports. June 8. The compensation procedure in force for trade with the Republic of Viet-Nam became applicable also to trade with Laos. July 31. Certain commodities were added to the lists of those admitted to the compensation pro- cedure. August 1. The supervision over imports of passenger automobiles outside the import pro- gram ("sans devises") for personal use was tightened. August 4. The compensation charge (perequa- tion) applying to imports in list C was reduced for some of these commodities, when settled in French francs, from CR 5 to CR 4 per U.S. dollar. August. The premium of CR 25 per U.S. dollar sold (CR 2 per French franc sold) by foreign tourists staying at officially listed hotels was extended to their purchase of airline tickets from the Royal Air Cambodian Company for travel on domestic routes. August 24. Decree No. 2053 established the rate for 1966 of the "exceptional equipment tax" (established annually by decree of the Minister of Finance). The tax was payable upon application for an authorization to transfer profits and divi- dends. September 1. Additional imports valued at CR 42 million were permitted from the French Franc Area. October 23. Nonresidents temporarily in Cam- bodia (including diplomats and tourists) were required to cover their local expenditures entirely through the sale on the Phnom-Penh exchange market of currencies acceptable to the National Bank or the National Exchange Office; they con- tinued to be able, however, to settle hotel bills and airline tickets with their foreign exchange. 62 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Cameroon has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Cameroonian agency of the BCEAEC and commercial banks in Cameroon take place at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Forward exchange trans- actions, which are permitted in any currency and for any period, take place at freely negotiated rates. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings, whether spot or forward, by residents or nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. Settlements with Mali, with which Cameroon maintains a bilateral payments agreement, are sub- ject to special provisions.2 In relations with other countries, there are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements, although certain controls are applied to borrowing and lending abroad, to issues and sales of foreign securities in Cameroon, and to inward and out- ward direct investment (see section on Capital, below). In practice, settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area other than Mali are usually made through correspondent banks in France, either in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs; settlements with other countries of the Franc Area are usually made in currencies of that Area, in practice mainly in French francs. The following is applicable to payments and transactions between Cameroon and all foreign countries except Mali.3 Residents are not required l rT he CFA f r a nc c i rcu la t ing in Cameroon is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in the Cen t ral A f r ican Repub l ic, Chad, Congo (Brazzav i l le), and Gabon. 2 There is an inope ra t ive paymen ts agreement w i th Gu in e a. 3 Foreign countries are defined as all countries o ther t h an Cameroon. to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, which may be held in Cameroon or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in CFA francs or in any foreign currency may be held in Cameroon by any nonresident. Balances on nonresident-held accounts may be transferred freely to any type of resident-held or nonresident-held account and used for any pay- ment in Cameroon or abroad, including the pur- chase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment, including any amount of interest. There are no restrictions on the physical impor- tation or exportation of foreign or domestic securi- ties. Imports and exports of gold (other than gold coins) require the prior approval of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry; this approval is given automatically. Cameroon's control measures affecting inward and outward direct investment, borrowing and lending abroad, and issues and sales of foreign securities do not apply to relations with (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member coun- tries of the Central African Customs and Eco- nomic Union (Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon ); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce and Industry super- vises borrowing and lending abroad, the issue or sale of foreign securities in Cameroon, and inward and outward direct investment; in the near fu ture, an Office of Foreign Financial Relations will be charged with this supervision. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry also gives its visa on import and export declarations for gold coins and automatically grants its prior approval for imports and exports of gold in any other form. All pay- ments and receipts between Cameroon and foreign countries that are made through Cameroonian banks or postal channels are registered, for statis- 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON tical purposes only, by the BCEAEC, through the intermediary of the institution executing the trans- fe r; the BCEAEC also addresses inquiries to the principal firms and agencies concerning inward and outward payments made in other manners, particularly by the offsetting of claims and debts. These data are collected by the BCEAEC for the preparation of the balance of payments only. All registered banks in Cameroon are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Commerce and Foreign Economic Relations in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The import from all sources of certain goods (including wines, flour, rice, tobacco, beer, sugar, pharmaceutical products, bicycles, agricultural tools, sheet aluminum, matches, secondhand clothing, and certain textiles of Asian origin) is subject to restrictive licensing. Other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. The import of a number of goods from EEC countries other than France is liberalized; licenses for these commodities are issued without restriction. All other imports are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and are discussed in a joint French- Cameroonian Committee. The allocations of the program are subsequently subdivided into quotas for West and East Cameroon. Separate global quotas are established for imports from EEC countries other than France and for imports f rom all other countries outside the French Franc Area. Under quotas established for imports from EEC countries, only goods origi- na t ing in those countries may be imported. Under the quotas for other countries, goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area except Mainland China and the U.S.S.R. may be imported. Separate quotas are established for Mainland China and the U.S.S.R. Within the import program, there are special ceilings for imports of a few commodities f rom countries outside the Franc Area; these ceilings are subdivided into ceilings for EEC countries 64 other than France, for low-wage countries, and for all other countries. Import licenses are not issued until the importer has received his personal import quota from a technical committee headed by the Director of Commerce and Foreign Economic Relations. For purposes of this distribution, registered importers are classified according to the value of their annual imports, although exchange may also be made available, under certain conditions, to newly estab- lished importers and to industrial enterprises that are not registered importers. Import licenses for imports outside the import program, e.g., for gifts, items sent as guarantees, publicity articles, and supplies for foreign religious missions, may be approved, provided that the importer undertakes not to sell the goods and only to use them for his personal requirements. Payments for imports from any country may be made freely, at any time, and without any for- mality. Commodity fu tures may be dealt in freely, in Cameroon or abroad. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. In principle, resident and nonresident travelers may not take out domestic or foreign banknotes or coins (other than gold coins) to destinations other than France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories except the Territory of the A fa rs and Issas), Monaco, or the other Operations Account countries without prior declaration to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry; in practice, however, this declaration is not required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. All other exports require prior authorization or a declaration. Exports are free of exchange control. The repatriation and surrender of export proceeds is not required. Exporters may grant credit for any period and are free to sell forward their antici- pated export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles With minor exceptions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. There are no ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents and the proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes, subject to prior declaration, which in practice is not required; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by the banks of issue of Guinea and Mali is prohibited or limited to certain amounts for each traveler. Travelers may also bring in freely, subject to prior declaration to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and sub- ject to customs declaration, up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Capital Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license, through banks or any other channel. Foreign and domestic securities of all types may freely be imported or exported physically, whether through the interme- diary of a bank or not, and transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic and foreign real estate (except when forming part of a direct investment) are unrestricted. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation and may (except when forming part of a direct invest- ment) be freely disposed of. Certain controls are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertis- ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon, but these controls relate to the trans- actions themselves, not to payments or receipts; the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Terri- tories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member coun- tries of the Central African Customs and Eco- nomic Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 4 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such 4 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies of Cameroon. CAMEROON investments only requires a report ex post to the Minister of Commerce and Industry, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participa- tion that had previously been approved as consti- tuting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Cameroon 5 require prior declaration to the Minister of Commerce and Industry, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undis- tributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liqui- dation of direct investments in Cameroon only requires reporting ex post to the Minister of Com- merce and Industry, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previ- ously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the mak- ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Cameroonian investments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Commerce and Industry within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Industry, and must subsequently be reported to him. Exempt from authorization, however, and subject only to an ex post report, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cameroon Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Cameroon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cam- eroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Min- 5 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of for- eign companies. 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON ister of Commerce and Industry and must subse- quently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization, and require only a report ex post: ( a) loans constitut- ing a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (b) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial trans- actions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (c) loans con- tracted by registered banks and credit institutions; and (d) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, their duration does not exceed 2 years, and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 per cent a year. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of jurid- ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Industry and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from prior authorization and are subject only to a report ex post: ( a) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (b) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take par t; and (c) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. An Investment Code promulgated in 1960 and revised in April 1964 establishes four categories of fiscal and other benefits which may be granted to both foreign and domestic firms undertaking approved new industrial or agricultural projects in Cameroon. The scope and duration of the benefits vary depending on the size of the investment, the degree to which it helps implement the economic and social development plan, and its importance to national economic growth. Category A permits mainly duty-free entry of capital goods and raw materials required for manufac tur ing and process- 66 ing. Under Category B, firms may be entitled to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for 5 years from the tax on industrial and commer- cial profits and from various other taxes and fees. Under Category C, large companies may conclude an "establishment agreement" with the Govern- ment, under which special conditions are agreed for the operations of the company and the nature and extent of tax concessions are determined. Normally, an "establishment agreement" is valid for 25 years and defines also the legal, economic, and financial guarantees granted to the company, including the assurance of stable conditions for financial transfers and marketing of goods. Cate- gory D grants to firms making investments of par- ticular significance to the national economy t h e, benefits of Category C, as well as a guarantee of stability of taxation for up to 25 years. Gold Residents are free to hold gold in any form, at home or abroad. They are also free to acquire and dispose of gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold require, in addition to a customs declaration, a license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Exempt from the latter requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of gold coins, which are free, subject to prior declara- tion to the Minister of Commerce and Industry. Changes during 1967 February 23. Decree No. 67/DF/81 estab- lished that, to be eligible for import licenses, importers were required to have had in 1966 an import turnover of at least CFAF 5 million or a domestic turnover of at least CFAF 15 million. Circular No. 21 of March 13, 1967 gave details of the application of the Decree. July 1. Law No. 67/LF/22 of June 12, 1967 established the principle that financial relations with foreign countries were free. With minor exceptions, all existing legislation contrary to this principle was revoked. Previously, current and capital payments to French Franc Area countries already were not only unrestricted but were also free of supervision, as were inward transfers origi- nating in French Franc Area countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Normally, the repatriation and surrender of claims, earnings, and proceeds accruing abroad would no longer be required. Import and export regulations were not affected, although the related exchange control formalities were abolished; these included the requirements that import licenses and import certificates be domiciled with an authorized bank, and that exporters sign a foreign exchange commitment in respect of all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. July 1. Decree No. 67/DF/365 of August 21, 1967 established the principal rules for the appli- cation of Law No. 67/LF/22. The decree defined the concept of "foreign countries" and indicated the types of capital transactions with foreign coun- tries that would be subject either to declaration or prior approval. The decree ruled that Law No. 67/LF/22 was not applicable to relations with Portugal, Rhodesia, or South Africa; relations with those countries continued to be governed by Decrees Nos. 63/DF/211, 63/DF/212, and 65/DF/544, and by the notices issued for their application. It also provided that the import and export of gold in any form remained subject to the CAMEROON existing regulations, and that the import and export of domestic and foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) required prior declaration. The decree also provided for the statistical regis- tration of all inward and outward payments, created in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry a Balance of Payments Committee, and charged the Minister of Commerce and Industry with peri- odically constructing a national balance of pay- ments. For this purpose, all banks and financial institutions as well as the postal administration were required to notify the BCEAEC or the Min- ister of Commerce and Industry, respectively, of all payments between Cameroon and foreign countries, all transactions in foreign currency, all transactions in CFA francs that affected financial relations with foreign countries, and all transac- tions in securities between residents and nonresi- dents. The BCEAEC was given authority to request any information required for the prepara- tion of the balance of payments from physical and juridical persons, whether public agencies or not, that were customarily resident in Cameroon or had their head office in Cameroon. 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA ' Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.822021 gram of fine gold per Canadian dollar or Can$ 1.08108 = US$1. Can- ada has no exchange restrictions on foreign pay- ments. On March 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. Import licenses are required only for a few agricultural items, including certain cereals; for some of these items, such as certain dairy prod- ucts, licenses are generally not being issued. Com- mercial imports from any source of certain com- modities are generally prohibited; these include oleomargarine, used automobiles, secondhand air- craf t, certain periodicals, and goods of Rhodesian origin. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposa- ble. For supply reasons, the export of a few com- modities to all destinations is under export control. For security reasons, the export of certain specified commodities to all destinations except the United States is under export control. All exports to Soviet bloc countries and Ma in land China are subject to control; certain nonstrategic goods, when of Canadian origin, may be exported to these destinations under general permit. All goods destined for Rhodesia require an export permit. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are imposed on exchange pay- ments for, or exchange receipts f rom, invisibles. 1 In v iew of a deve lopment that took place on Janu- ary 28, 1968 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this su rvey presents the situation as at that date. 68 Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Exports of gold are subject to the following conditions: (1) the sale of gold to Soviet bloc countries and Main- land China is subject to control and requires a license from the Department of Trade and Com- merce; ( 2) gold that originated outside Canada may only be re-exported to a country other than the United States when covered by a permit issued by the Minister of Trade and Commerce under the authority of the Export and Import Permits Act; (3) owing to the general embargo on trade with Rhodesia, no gold may be imported from or exported to Rhodesia. Commercial imports of arti- cles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Changes during 1967 February 20. A new Export Control List was issued under the Export and Import Permits Act. June 6. Following the U.S. ban on silver exports, Canada extended export control to silver coins, silver and silver alloy in wrought or unwrought forms, chemicals, salts, and compounds of silver, and silver alloy scrap; export control was applied to all destinations, including the United States. Normal commercial shipments of these materials to the United States were continued under export permits. Furthermore, a general per- mit was granted to allow the export of silver coin- age, not in excess of Can$5 a person, in the per- sonal possession of individual travelers leaving Canada. September 15. The Government announced that export credit insurance would be made avail- able to cover exports to the United States. December 16. The Bank of Canada requested Canadian banks and other financial intermediaries to refra in from extending credit on gold or on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution other security for the purchase of gold, and not to facilitate forward purchases of gold. NOTE.—The following development took place in 1968: January 28. The Bank of Canada announced that, following discussions with the chartered banks, it had been agreed that the banks would discourage the use of bank credit to facilitate abnormal transfers of funds abroad by Canadian subsidiaries of foreign companies, and would also discourage the use of bank credit by such compa- nies to meet requirements in Canada that had in the past normally been met by parent companies. CANADA 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Exchange System No par value for the currency of the Central African Republic has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the rela- tionship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the BCEAEC and commercial banks take place at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Forward exchange trans- actions, which are permitted in any currency and for any period, take place at freely negotiated rates. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings, whether spot or forward, by residents or nonresidents, whether banks or non- banks. There are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements, although certain controls are applied to borrowing and lending abroad, to issues and sales of foreign securities in the Central African Republic, and to inward and outward direct investment (see section on Capital, be low). In practice, settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area are usually made through correspondent banks in France, either in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs; settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are usually made in currencies of that Area, in practice mainly in Franch francs. The following is applicable to payments and transactions between the Central African Repub- lic and all foreign countries.2 Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, which may be held in the Central Afr ican Republic or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in CFA francs or 1 The CFA f ranc c i rcu la t ing in the Central A f r ican Repub l ic is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equateriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, Congo (Brazza- v i l l e ), and Gabon. 2 Foreign countries are defined as all countries o ther th an the Central A f r ican Repub l ic. 70 in any foreign currency may be held in the Central Afr ican Republic by any nonresident. Bal- ances on nonresident-held accounts may be trans- ferred freely to any type of resident or nonresident- held account and used for any payment in the Central African Republic or abroad, including the purchase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment, including any amount of inter- est. There are no restrictions on the physical importation or exportation of foreign or domestic securities. Imports and exports of gold are restricted; these require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance and National Economy. The Central African Republic's control meas- ures affecting inward and outward direct invest- ment, borrowing and lending abroad, and issues and sales of foreign securities do not apply to rela- tions with ( 1) France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; ( 2) the other member countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (Cameroon, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon ); and ( 3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Administration of Control The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance and National Economy, under the direction of the Directorate of the Budget, supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing or sale of foreign securities in the Central A f r ican Republic, and inward and outward direct investment. This Office also issues import and export licenses for gold. All payments and receipts between the Central African Republic and foreign countries that are made through banks or postal channels are registered, for statistical purposes only, by the BCEAEC, through the intermediary of the institution executing the transfer; the BCEAEC also addresses inquiries to the principal firms and agencies concerning inward and outward payments made in other manners, particularly by the offse t t ing of claims and debts. These data are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution collected by the BCEAEC for the compilation of the balance of payments only. All registered banks in the Central African Republic are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Finance and National Economy. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. The import of coffee, palm oil, groundnut oil, potatoes, butter, cheese, and eggs from countries other than the member states of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) is not authorized unless local production of these commodities is inadequate. Imports of household utensils and matches from all sources, and imports of certain types of footwear and paints not originating in a member country of the UDEAC, may be made only in given ratios to purchases of the local product, and imports of alcoholic beverages from all sources require an import authorization from the Ministry of the Interior, for health reasons. Imports of firearms are prohibited from all sources. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely and with- out an import license. Most imports from EEC countries are liberalized. Imports from all coun- tries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program is determined by a joint French-Central African Committee. Separate global quotas are established for imports from EEC countries (other than France) and for imports from all other countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas for EEC countries may be used only to import goods origi- nating in those countries; the quotas for other countries may be used to import goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area. There are ceilings for imports of a few products from countries outside the French Franc Area other than EEC countries. There are special ceil- ings for imports of textile piece goods from low- wage countries. Licenses for imports outside the program are granted for petroleum imports, for which a joint quota exists for the countries of the UDEAC, for imports of tobacco, and for certain imports by diamond and lumber companies. CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC For goods included in the annual import pro- gram, the Ministry of Finance and National Econ- omy publishes each year a list of the allocations granted to each registered importer in accordance with, inter alia, his import business in the previous year. The importer submits to the Ministry an application for a license within the limits of the quotas that have been assigned to him. Import licenses are valid for 9 months and may be extended once for 3 months, i.e., the maximum period of validity is 12 months; in exceptional cases, mainly involving capital goods, a second extension for 3 months may be granted. Payments for imports from any country may be made freely, at any time, and without any formal- ity. Commodity fu tures may be dealt in freely, in the Central African Republic or abroad. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may take out any amount in domes- tic and foreign banknotes or coins (except gold coins). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports of cotton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanuts, palm oil, meat, and diamonds require a license. All other exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All exports to countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses, which are issued freely; exports to South Africa, however, are prohibited. Exports are free of exchange control. The repatriation and surrender of export proceeds is not required. Exporters may grant credit for any period and are free to sell forward their antici- pated export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles With minor exceptions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents and the pro- ceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes and coins (excluding gold coins); however, the exchange of banknotes issued by the banks of issue of Guinea and Mali is pro- 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC hibited or limited to certain amounts for each traveler. Capital Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license, through banks or any other channel. Foreign and domes- tic securities of all types may be freely imported or exported physically, whether through the inter- mediary of a bank or not, and transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic and foreign real estate (except when forming part of a direct inves tmen t) are unrestricted. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation and may (except when forming part of a direct invest- men t) be freely disposed of. Certain controls are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investments, and over the issuing, advertis- ing, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in the Central .African Republic, but these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. The control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 3 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and National Economy, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undis- tributed profits; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and National Econ- omy, unless the operation involves the relinquish- ing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central African Republic 4 must be declared 3 I n c l u d i ng those made th rough the in te rmed ia ry of fo re ign companies th at are d i rec t ly or ind irec t ly con- trolled by persons in the Central A f r i c an Repub l ic and those made by b ranches or subsidiaries abroad of compa- nies in the Cen t ral A f r ican Repub l ic. 4 In c lud ing those made by companies in the Central A f r i c an Repub l ic t h at are d irec t ly or ind irec t ly under fo re ign control and those made by branches or sub- sidiaries in the Cen t ral A f r i c an Repub l ic of fore ign compan ies. 72 to the Minister of Finance and National Economy, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed prof- its; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects sub- mitted to him. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central African Repub- lic must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a par- ticipation that had previously been approved as constituting the mak ing of a direct investment in the Central African Republic. Both the making and the liquidating of direct investments, whether these are Central African Republic investments abroad or foreign investments in the Central Afri- can Republic, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere partici- pation is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central Afr ican Republic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and National Economy. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Central Afr ican Republic Government, and ( 2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Central Afr ican Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Cen- tral African Republic, or by branches or subsidi- aries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and National Economy. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans consti- tuting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial trans- actions either between the Central African Repub- lic and countries abroad or between foreign coun- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one bor- rower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or sub- sidiaries in the Central African Republic of jurid- ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and National Economy. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Finan- cial Relations within 20 days of the operation except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 19(53, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and mining enter- prises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Central African Republic are granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on the import of specified equipment; in addition, certain enterprises receive exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing hi new enterprises or in the expan- sion of existing ones in most sectors of the econ- omy, except the commercial sector. Preferential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the territory of the Cen- tral African Republic; it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Equa- CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC torial Customs Union. Preferential treatment C, which contains the most favorable provisions, is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Finance and National Economy, who is the Chairman of the Investment Commission which considers the appli- cation. If a positive decision has been given by the Commission, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferen- tial treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an act of the Board of Directors of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold gold in any form, in the Central African Republic or abroad. They also are free to acquire and dispose of gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold require, in addition to a customs declaration, a license from the Ministry of Finance and National Economy, which grants such licenses restrictively. Exempt from the licensing require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAEC, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes during 1967 January 1. Decree No. 66/71 exempted groundnuts and sesame from export tax. January 23. Decree No. 67/043 lifted the pro- hibition on imports of specified foodstuffs but provided that these could not be imported from countries outside the UDEAC unless covered by an import license. April 17. Decree No. 67/135 abolished the import levy on wheat flour imported from France and introduced an import levy on all wheat flour imported from sources other than a specified flour mill in Senegal. April 25. Circular No. 0992 announced that with effect from June 1, 1967 imports of printed piece goods from low-wage countries would be 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC reduced by 50 per cent, and that such imports would be discontinued from January 1, 1968. May 31. Circular No. 1316/MEFEN/DCI made the import of certain paints from countries not belonging to the UDEAC conditional on the purchase in a specified ratio of similar domestic products. July 1. Ordinance No. 67/54 of August 1, 1967 established the principle that financial relations with foreign countries were free. With minor exceptions, all existing legislation contrary to this principle was revoked, including Law No. 63/389 of April 13, 1963 concerning exchange control and Law No. 63/388 of April 13, 1963 concern- ing the creation of the Exchange Office adminis- tering the exchange controls. The ordinance also provided for the statistical registration of all inward and outward payments. Previously, cur- rent and capital payments to French Franc Area countries were already unrestricted; they were also free of supervision, as were inward transfers orig- inating in French Franc Area countries. Normally, the repatriation and surrender of claims, earnings, and proceeds accruing abroad would no longer be required. Import and export regulations were not affected, although the related exchange control formalities were abolished; these included the requirements that import licenses and import certificates be domiciled with an author- ized bank, and that exporters sign a foreign exchange commitment in respect of all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. July 1. Decree No. 67/253 of August 1, 1967 established the principal rules for the application of Ordinance No. 67/54. The decree defined the concept of "foreign countries" and indicated the types of capital transactions with foreign countries that would be subject either to declaration or to prior approval. By formally revoking all exchange control regulations previously issued by the Exchange Office, it also provided that the export of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAEC was free (the import of such banknotes and coins already was f r e e ). July 1. Decree No. 67/254 of August 1, 1967 abolished the taxes previously levied on transfers to countries outside the French Franc Area and on imports from countries outside the French Franc Area. July 1. Decree No. 67/255 of August 1, 1967 created a Balance of Payments Committee charged with periodically compiling a national balance of payments. For this purpose, all banks and finan- cial institutions as well as the postal administra- tion were required to notify the BCEAEC of all payments between the Central African Republic and foreign countries, all transactions in foreign currency, all transactions in CFA francs that affected financial relations with foreign countries, and all transactions in securities between residents and nonresidents. The BCEAEC was given authority to request any information required for the compilation of the balance of payments from physical and juridical persons, whether public agencies or not, that were customarily resident, or had their head office, in the Central African Republic. September 18. Decree No. 67/285 created an Office of Foreign Financial Relations. This Office was to participate, together with the BCEAEC, in the centralization of information required for the preparation of the balance of payments. It would also examine applications for the authorizations, and receive the declarations, that were required by Decree No. 67/253. November 6. Arrete No. 441 established that declarations and applications for authorization in respect of those capital transactions that remained subject to control had to be addressed to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Directorate of the Budget, Ministry of Finance and National Economy. (On February 7, 1968, the duties of the Office of Foreign Financial Relations were fu r- ther defined by Arrete No. 058.) 74 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.149297 gram of fine gold per Ceylon Rupee or Cey Rs 5.95237 = US$1. Exchange rates are based on the fixed sterling- Ceylon rupee rate (Cey Rs 14.29= <£ !) and the rates for other currencies against sterling in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Depart- ment of Exchange Control of the Central Bank of Ceylon, as agent of the Government. A foreign exchange budget and an import program are drawn up annually. All remittances of foreign exchange in Ceylon must be made through banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign cur- rencies in accordance wtih the exchange control regulations prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Import and export licens- ing is handled by the Controller of Imports and Exports, but licenses for certain industrial imports are issued by the Actual Users Division of the Ministry of Industries and Fisheries, and those for imports under an export incentive scheme are granted by the Commissioner of Commodity Purchase. Prescription of Currency Ceylon is a member of the Sterling Area, and the regulations prescribing the currencies for set- tlements with other countries are similar to the regulations of other Sterling Area countries. Pay- ments to the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency; and receipts from the Sterling Area may be accepted in any Sterling Area currency. Settlements with ten countries with which Cey- lon has bilateral payments agreements l and with the United Arab Republic must be made through the relevant special accounts. Payments to all other countries except Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling or Ceylon rupees to a sterling 1 Ceylon has b i la te ral payments agreements with Bul- garia, Ma in land Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- m a n y, Hung a ry, N o r th Korea, Po land, R um a n i a, Sy r ian A r ab R epub l i c, and U.S.S.R. External Account or an External Rupee Account, or in the currency of the creditor country. Receipts from all other countries except Rho- desia may be accepted in sterling or Ceylon rupees from a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, in any specified cur- rency 2 other than a Sterling Area currency, or in any nonspecified, non-Sterling Area currency marketable in the United Kingdom, i.e., freely exchangeable for sterling. Transactions involv- ing deviations from the general regulations require the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rho- desia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in Ceylon by banks, corporations, or persons residing abroad. Transfers of balances in these accounts to Sterling Area Accounts or External Accounts require approval. Blocked Accounts are used for holding funds that may not be transferred abroad and that are owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and emigrants. Such funds, unless they originate from payments for imports, may be used for investment in Cey- lon in prescribed securities. Proceeds from the liquidation of such investments must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Also retained on Blocked Accounts is a proportion of local currency earn- ings derived from exhibition of foreign-owned films, if the takings exceed the amount specified in the import license; such retained funds may be used by the owner for mak ing films in Ceylon. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. The value and composition of imports are established by an annual import program. Except for imports by the Food Commissioner's Department, direct imports by other government departments, and certain minor imports (such as trade samples, 2 The specified currencies are listed as the currency of any country of the Sterling Area, and Aus t r ian schillings, Be lg ian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French f ranc s, I ta l ian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kroner, Swiss f ranc s, and U.S. dollars. 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON gifts, and books up to specified amoun ts ), all imports require individual licenses3 and are divided into three groups —essential goods, less essential goods, and nonessential goods. Licenses to import goods in the first and second groups are issued up to the limits of quotas based on past imports. Imports of many nonessential or locally produced goods are either prohibited or con- siderably restricted. The right to import is restricted to government- sponsored corporations and registered importers. Imports of specified commodities 4 are restricted to government or state corporations, the Coopera- tive Wholesale Establishment, or Lanka Salu Sala L td .; these are referred to as "reserved items." In order to allocate quotas, applicants for import licenses are divided into three groups: ( 1) actual users of indus tr ial raw materials, machinery, etc., ( 2) those who import other goods for their own use and not for resale, and ( 3) established import- ers who import goods for trading purposes. In addition to the above arrangements, certain impor ts may be made under an export incentive system (see section on Exports and Export Pro- ceeds, be low ). An authorized dealer may approve an applica- tion to remit foreign exchange or to credit a nonresident account when the applicant furnishes, or undertakes to furn ish, evidence of importation and of the cost of the goods together with a valid importer's and exchange control copy of the import license. Most imports are subject to a 10 per cent cus- toms surcharge on the existing rate of import du ty; :< Fees are payab le on import licenses as fo l lows: ( 1) For licenses to impo rt in fan t s' and invalids' food of m i lk and cream, cotton yarn, drugs and Pharmaceuticals, f e r t i l i z e r s, kerosene, newsp r in t, and ag r icu l tu ral imple- men t s: Cey Rs 5 on licenses va lued up to Cey Rs 500, Cey Rs 10 on licenses exceeding Cey Rs 500 but not Cey Rs 1,000, and Cey Rs 10 for every Cey Rs 1,000 or part thereof on licenses exceeding Cey Rs 1,000. ( 2) One per cent of the va lue on licenses to impo rt ma r ine fuel oil, ma r ine diesel oil, gas oil, and mar ine lub r icant impo r ted exc lus ive ly for in te rna t ional trade, and on avia- t ion t u r bo oil, av ia t ion gasoline, and aviation lub r ican ts issued for a i r c r a f t. ( 3) For all other impor ts Cey Rs 10 on licenses v a l u ed up to Cey Rs 100 and 10 per cent of the v a l ue on licenses exceeding Cey Rs 100. Importers exempt f r om p aym ent of impo rt du t ies are also exempt f r om these var ious fees. 4 These inc lude rice, wheat, flour (except corn flour), u n r e f i n ed sug a r, re f ined sugar, red onions, Ma ld ive f ish, dr ied f ish, c um in seed, len t i ls, dhal, cement, fodder, cau s t ic soda, co t ton y a rn, n ew sp r int and other paper p rodu c t s, p e t ro l eum p roduc t s, and tex t i les and m a n u f a c- t u r es of t e x t i le m a t e r i a l s. 76 certain imports are also subject to customs sur- charges of 5 per cent ad valorem or 20 per cent of the normal rate of duty. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual permits. The remittance of profits, dividends, and other investment income was, un t il July 31, 1964, freely permitted, but since then a mora- torium, which subsequently was relaxed, has been applied to such remittances.5 Releases of accu- mulated arrears have been taking place since the latter part of 1965; since June 1966 they have been made at a rate of about Cey Rs 3.5 million a month. The remittance of life insurance premiums on policies in foreign currencies purchased by non- nationals residing temporarily in Ceylon is per- mitted, and such policies are considered as part of the assets available to them on retirement. Foreign exchange for tourist travel abroad is only granted for fur loughs of foreign nationals. Business travel is generally limited to travel for the promotion of traditional and industrial exports and of tourism, and exchange up to a max imum of <£ stg. 10 a day for a max imum period of 21 days is allowed in such cases. Exchange for pil- grimages is granted on the basis of one pilgrimage in a lifetime. Exchange for educational expenses is made available only for certain courses of study that will be of positive value to the country and that are not available in Ceylon. For study in educa- tional institutions in "Asian group" countries,6 exchange up to a max imum of Cey Rs 350 a mon th is allowed; for study in educational insti- "' Exemp t ion f rom the mora tor ium has been gran ted for interest on fore ign loans; advances or credits obtained abroad by the Government or the Cen tral Bank; interest on gove rnment and governmen t-guaran teed securities issued loca l ly, if the inves tment had been made th rough inwa rd rem i t tance of foreign exchange; interest on advances or credits available in the usual financial opera- t ions connected w i th trade and payments; interest pay- able by p r iva te parties in respect of credits they had negotiated in the past w i th foreign suppliers of capital goods, etc.; and income resu l t ing f rom new investments in approved indus tr ies. Relief is also granted on the g rounds of ha rdsh ip. 0 The "Asian group" is listed as Aden, A fghan is tan, the East A f r i c an region, Brune i, Bu rm a, Hong Kong, India, Indoch ina, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Ma lays ia, Pak is tan, Persian Gu lf Sheikdoms, Saudi A r ab i a, Syrian A r ab Repub l ic, Tha i land, Turkey, and Un i ted Arab Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tutions in other countries, exchange is made available at <£ stg. 60 a month for postgraduate studies and <£ stg. 45 a month for undergraduate studies, plus actual fees and costs of books. For travel and other expenses for medical rea- sons, exchange is authorized if a certificate is pro- duced f rom a medical specialist in Ceylon and supported by the Director of Health Services that equally effective treatment cannot be obtained in Ceylon; the amount authorized will depend on the estimated cost, as certified by the specialist. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit for family maintenance a maximum of Cey Rs 750 a month or one third of their gross monthly income, whichever is less. Other for- eign nationals are permitted to remit <£ stg. 85 a month for a wife and <£ stg. 55 for a child going to school, and <£ stg. 25 for other children, up to a max imum of two thirds of the gross monthly income when dependents are direct ones. For other dependents, this ceiling is one third of the gross monthly income. When the amount claimed on this basis exceeds one third of the gross monthly income, the excess will be treated as an anticipatory transfer to be set off against the amount the repatriate is entitled to remit upon departure. Temporary residents on short-term contracts are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their gross monthly income. Ceylonese nation- als are not granted exchange for family remit- tances. Commissions up to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of en try; they may not take out Ceylon currency notes and coins. Residents may take out Ceylon or foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding the equivalent of Cey Rs 50 a person (Cey Rs 25 for children under 12) once in 12 months, pro- vided that they are entitled to travel exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports to the Syrian Arab Republic require the prior approval of the Controller of Imports and Exports and that of the Controller of Exchange. CEYLON For purposes of exchange control, licenses issued by the Controller of Exchange are required for all commercial exports; in addition, export licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports are required for all commodities except 36 minor items. Licenses for exports to Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, Mainland China, the Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, North Korea, the Republic of Korea, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, and the Republic of Viet-Nam are issued only to registered Ceylonese traders. Exports of certain manufactured goods and re-exports of foreign manufactured articles are allowed only under special permit. Rubber exports to Mainland China, Poland, Ruman ia, and the U.S.S.R., and tea exports to the United Arab Republic, are under state trading. Re- exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, and diamonds are allowed only in special circumstances. The Controller of Exchange issues the license for a commercial export when he is satisfied that payment representing fa ir value for the goods will be received in Ceylon under prescribed regulations and, usually, within four months from the date of shipment. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered. An export incentive scheme is in force for all industrial goods the manufac ture of which has been either approved by or registered with the Development Division of the Ministry of Indus- tries and Fisheries and for specified nonindustrial exports (so fa r, only tobacco, mica, cocoa liquor, and some minor agricultural commodities have been declared eligible). Exporters of such com- modities are granted transferable bonus vouchers in amounts equivalent to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the goods exported, provided, for indus- trial exports, that the net foreign exchange earn- ings (i.e., the excess of earnings over the cost of imported inputs, excluding depreciation of machinery) are not less than 25 per cent of the f.o.b. value. The vouchers entitle the holder to obtain import licenses to the same face value for any commodity admitted for import by estab- lished traders ("trade quota items"), and for industrial raw materials, machinery, and essential spare parts. Applications for bonus vouchers can- not be submitted until the export proceeds have been collected and surrendered. 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Proceeds from Invisibles from invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered. A traveler entering Ceylon must declare his holdings, including currency notes and coins. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Ceylon in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Ceylon, Indian, and Pakistan currency is not permitted; however, Cey- lon notes may be imported up to Cey Rs 50, pro- vided that evidence of prior export of such notes by the same traveler is produced. Other currency notes and coins may be taken in without restric- tion. Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in projects which are specifically approved by the Government, or in shares of public companies incorporated in Ceylon. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in approved projects may be repatriated, along with capital apprecia- tion. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments not approved by the Government may not be transferred abroad, but they may be rein- vested in Ceylonese securities; the current income thereon is subject to the transfer moratorium. New foreign investments in Ceylon that are considered and approved by the Foreign Invest- ment Approval Committee of the Ministry of Planning and Economic A f fa i rs are also granted special facilities in respect of remittances and taxation. Investments abroad by residents are not normally permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the prin- cipal, interest, or dividends are payable (either contractually or at the option of the holder) in specified currencies must be registered with the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permis- sion of the Minister of Finance. Emigrants are not permitted capital remittances except on grounds of dire hardship. Subject to prescribed limits, the transfer of their net income, other than investment income, is allowed for one year from the date of emigration, af ter deduction of any income being earned abroad, if the emi- grant is under 55 years of age. If the emigrant is over 55 years of age or has acquired foreign citi- 78 zenship, net income, other than investment income, may be transferred, within certain limits, even af ter one year. Repatriates leaving Ceylon for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted, at the time of their departure, to transfer assets representing their retirement funds and a reason- able amount of savings up to a maximum of Cey Rs 75,000 for the "Asian group" and Cey Rs 150,000 for other countries. However, for nationals of the "non-Asian group" who prior to 1965 had already accumulated amounts in retire- ment funds in excess of Cey Rs 150,000, special provision is made for transfers of amounts up to Cey Rs 250,000. For persons who have been in business in Ceylon, the capital they originally brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings are allowed to be transferred, subject to the above limits. Special provisions, governed by an agreement between Ceylon and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. Gold Residents need permission to hold or acquire gold coins in Ceylon for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are severely restricted. Changes during 1967 March 30. The export incentive scheme was applied to cocoa liquor; this product had been declared eligible for the scheme on December 1, 1966, but was not exported until March 30, 1967. May 10. All applications for licenses to export to Libya had to be referred to the exchange con- trol authorities for prior approval. This instruc- tion was canceled on June 19, when tea exports to Libya were freely permitted, provided that letters of credit were established. May 11. Customs duties were reduced on cer- tain raw materials and machinery judged essen- tial for economic development. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution June 5. All settlements with Yugoslavia were put on a convertible currency basis. July 12. Certain minor agricultural commodi- ties were declared eligible for the export incentive scheme. July 26. The fees payable on import licenses were increased for most goods. July 27. The Foreign Exchange Budget for 1967 was published; it set the total size of the import program for 1967 at Cey Rs 2,231 million. August 9. The fees for import licenses were fu r ther modified. September 1. The floor price under the tea subsidy scheme was raised from Cey Rs 0.90 to CeyRs 1.00. CEYLON November 22. The par value of the Ceylon rupee was changed from Cey Rs 4.76190 = US$1 to C eyRs 5.95237 = US$1. November 22. Export duties on all major exports, as well as on some minor exports, were increased. The scheme under which refunds of export duty on tea could be obtained was abol- ished. November 26. Following the devaluation, the rupee value of import licenses outstanding was increased by 7.12 per cent for goods payable in sterling and by 25 per cent for goods payable in a foreign currency that had not been devalued. December 31. The import monopoly for tex- tiles was transferred from the Cooperative Whole- sale Establishment to the Lanka Salu Sala Ltd. 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD Exchange System No par value for the currency of Chad has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giv- ing the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Chadian agency of the BCEAEC and commer- cial banks in Chad take place at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a com- mission. Forward exchange transactions, which are permitted in any currency and for any period, take place at freely negotiated rates. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings, whether spot or forward, by residents or nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. There are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements, although certain controls are applied to borrowing and lend- ing abroad, to issues and sales of foreign securi- ties in Chad, and to inward and outward direct investment (see section on Capital, be low ). In practice, settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area are usually made through cor- respondent banks in France, either in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange marke t —or in French francs; settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are u su a l ly made in currencies of that Area, in prac- tice ma in ly in French francs. The following is applicable to payments and transactions between Chad and all foreign coun- tries.2 Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or hold- ings, which may be held in Chad or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in CFA f rancs or in any foreign currency may be held in Chad by any nonresident. Balances on nonresident-held 1 The CFA f r a nc c i rcu la t ing in Chad is issued by the Banque Centrale des E ta ts de 1'Afrique Equa to r ia le et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Cen tral A f r ican Repub l ic, Congo (B razza- v i l l e ), and Gabon. 2 Foreign coun t r ies are defined as all coun t r ies other t h an Chad. 80 accounts may be transferred freely to any type of resident-held or nonresident-held account and used for any payment in Chad or abroad, includ- ing the purchase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment, including any amount of interest. There are no restrictions on the physical importation or exportation of foreign or domestic securities. Imports and exports of gold are free; these require the prior visa of the Ministry of Finance, but the visa is given automatically. Chad's control measures affecting inward and outward direct investment, borrowing and lending abroad, and issues and sales of foreign securities do not apply to relations with (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the Central Afr ican Customs and Economic Union (Cameroon, Central African Republic, Congo (Brazzav i l le), and Gabon ); and ( 3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l t a ). Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance exercises the super- vision over borrowing and lending abroad, over the issue or sale of foreign securities in Chad, and over inward and outward direct investment; in the near fu tu re, the Office of Foreign Financial Relations (which has not yet been established) will be charged with this supervision. The Ministry of Finance also gives its visa on import and export declarations for gold. All payments and receipts between Chad and foreign countries that are made through Chadian banks or postal channels are registered, for statistical purposes only, by the BCEAEC, through the intermediary of the insti- tution executing the transfer; the BCEAEC also addresses inquiries to the principal firms and agencies concerning inward and outward payments made in other manners, particularly by the offset- t ing of claims and debts. These data are collected by the BCEAEC for the preparation of the balance of paymen ts only. All registered banks in Chad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are permitted to carry out foreign exchange trans- actions. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Econ- omy. Import certificates for liberalized commodi- ties are made out by the importer himself. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar are prohibited. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. With the exception of radios and petroleum products, other imports from EEC countries other than France may also be made freely. All imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to imple- ment it are determined by a joint French-Chadian Committee. A special licensing procedure is applicable to the import of petroleum products. The import program contains global quotas for imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area, special quotas for the U.S.S.R., and a global quota for imports of cer- tain textiles from countries with abnormal com- petitive advantages. Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. For goods included in the annual import pro- gram, the Ministry of Economy publishes each year an announcement of the quota allotted to each registered importer based on, principally, his import business in the previous year. Import licenses are valid for six months and are auto- matically extended for another six months. Further extensions are not granted except, in unusual circumstances, for manu fac tu red goods when evi- dence is presented concerning the time needed for their production. Specified imports from neighboring countries not belonging to the French Franc Area (Libya and the Sudan) up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year for a single importer may be made through compensation transactions. Certain special regula- tions also apply to border trade with Nigeria. Payments for imports from any country may be made freely, at any time, and without any for- mality. Commodity fu tu res may be dealt in freely, in Chad or abroad. CHAD Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may take out any amount in domes- tic and foreign banknotes. Travelers also may take out freely, without declaration to the Ministry of Finance but subject to customs declaration, up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Certain insurance transactions —but not the re- lated payments —between residents and nonresi- dents are subject to restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. With a few exceptions, all exports require licenses. Specified exports to Libya, Nigeria, and the Sudan may be made through compensation transactions. Exports are free of exchange control. The repatriation and surrender of export proceeds is not required. Exporters may grant credit for any period and are free to sell forward their anticipated export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles With minor exceptions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents and the proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by the banks of issue of Guinea and Mali is prohibited or limited to certain amounts for each traveler. Travelers may also bring in freely, without declaration to the Ministry of Finance but subject to customs declaration, up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomina- tion or face value. Capital Residents and nonresidents may import or ex- port capital freely without a license, through banks or any other channel. Foreign and domestic securities of all types may be freely imported or exported physically, whether through the inter- mediary of a bank or not, and transactions between 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD residents and nonresidents in domestic and foreign real estate (except when forming part of a direct investment) are unrestricted. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation and may (except when forming part of a direct inves tmen t) be freely disposed of. Certain controls are maintained over borrow- ing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad, but these controls relate to the transac- tions themselves, not to payments or receipts; the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Terri- tories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member coun- tries of the Central Afr ican Customs and Eco- nomic Union (UDEAC), and those other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also re- quires the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct invest- ments in Chad 4 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of und is tr ibu ted profits; the Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to h im. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Chad must also be declared to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a par- ticipation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in Chad. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Chadian 3 Inc lud ing those made th rough the in te rmed ia ry of foreign companies that are d i rec t ly or ind irec t ly con- trolled by persons in Chad and those made by branches or subs id ia r ies abroad of companies in Chad. 4 I n c l u d i ng those made by companies in Chad that are d i rec t ly or ind irec t ly under fore ign control and those made by b ranches or subs id iar ies in Chad of fore ign companies. 82 investments abroad or foreign investments in Chad, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere par- ticipation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in con- nection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offer ing for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whe ther public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take par t; (3) loans contracted by regis- tered banks; and ( 4) loans other than those men- tioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under ( 4) that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister of Finance within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution following are, however, exempt f rom this authori- zation: (1) loans granted by registered banks; and ( 2) other loans, when the total amount out- standing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be declared to the Minister of Finance within 20 days of the operation, unless the amount of the loan is less than CFAF 500,000, provided, however, that the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Preferential treat- ment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Chad. Preferential treatment B applies to enter- prises whose activity and market include the terri- tory of two or more states of the UDEAC— Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon. Preferential treatments A and B are granted for a period of up to 15 years. Preferential treatment C is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the coun- try's economic development; it provides for sta- bilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Requests for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Economy, who, a f ter examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. A f ter an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by a decision of the UDEAC upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. They are also free to acquire and CHAD dispose of gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold require, in addition to a customs declaration, a prior declaration to the Ministry of Finance, which grants its visa auto- matically. Exempt from the latter requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAEC, (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles), (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles (other than coins and bars) whose combined weight does not exceed 500 grams, and (4) imports and exports of up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Changes during 1967 April 1. The import program for the period to March 31, 1968 was announced. It made no provision for the importation of wheat, wheat flour, or sugar. All other imports from EEC countries other than France were unrestricted, with the exception only of radio receivers and petroleum products. The total of the quotas for non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area showed a slight increase over that in the previous program. July 1. Ordinance No. 16/F of July 5, 1967 established the principle that financial relations with foreign countries were free. With minor exceptions, all existing legislation contrary to this principle was revoked, including Ordinance No. 5/F of March 17, 1965 concerning the creation of the Exchange Department administering the exchange controls. The law also provided for the statistical registration of all inward and outward payments. Previously, current and capital pay- ments to French Franc Area countries already were not only unrestricted but were also free of supervision, as were inward transfers originating in French Franc Area countries. Normally, the repatriation and surrender of claims, earnings, and proceeds accruing abroad would no longer be required. Import and export regulations were not affected, although the related exchange control formalities were abolished; these included the requirements that import licenses and 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD import certificates be domiciled with an authorized bank, and that exporters sign a foreign exchange commitment in respect of all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. July 1. Decree No. 165/F of July 5, 1967 established the principal rules for the application of Ordinance No. 16/F. The decree defined the concept of "foreign countries" and indicated the types of capital transactions with foreign countries that would be subject either to declaration or prior approval. It also provided that the import and export of gold were free, subject, with certain exceptions, to the prior visa of the Ministry of Finance on an import or export declaration, and that the import and export of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAEC were free. July 1. Decree No. 164/F of July 5, 1967 created a Balance of Payments Committee charged with periodically constructing a national balance of payments. For this purpose, all banks and financial institutions as well as the postal administration were required to notify the BCEAEC of all payments between Chad and for- eign countries, all transactions in foreign currency, all transactions in CFA francs that affected finan- cial relations with foreign countries, and all transactions in securities between residents and nonresidents. The BCEAEC was given authority to request any information required for the prepa- ration of the balance of payments from physical and juridical persons, whether public agencies or not, that were customarily resident in Chad or had their head office in Chad. 84 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Exchange Rate System No par value for the Chilean Escudo (which was introduced on January 1, 1960) has been established with the Fund. The par value for the Chilean peso established with the Fund on Octo- ber 5,1953 is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. There are two exchange markets: the official market (known as the banking market) and the brokers' market. Only the Central Bank, the State Bank, authorized commercial banks, and other persons or entities authorized by the Central Bank may operate in these markets; brokers are not at present permitted to operate in either market. The rates of exchange in both markets are fluctuating rates. Through the banking market pass,govern- ment transactions, proceeds from exports, sales of exchange by the large mining companies, receipts from a few invisibles, and payments for imports and for some commercial invisibles. Most invisi- bles and most capital transactions pass through the brokers' market. In general, capital transac- tions are entitled to the same exchange market treatment on exit as on entry. However, the servicing and withdrawal of some capital received through the brokers' market may be effected through the banking market. Transactions in the banking market are for both spot and forward delivery at the same exchange rate; for imports of most commodities, forward exchange purchases are mandatory and export proceeds may be sold forward. For both types of transaction, settlement in escudos is effected at the time the exchange con- tract is negotiated. Transactions in the brokers' market are for spot delivery only. Settlements for imports are subject to a compulsory deferment period of 60 days from the date of shipment. There is additionally some restriction on the avail- ability of exchange in that the Central Bank sells exchange to the commercial banks only for for- ward delivery (82 days on December 29, 1967). On December 29, 1967, the exchange rate in the banking market was E° 5.79 buying, E° 5.80 selling, per US$1; the rate in the brokers' market was E° 6.71 buying, E ° 6.72 selling, per US$1. Purchases of exchange in the brokers' market for remittances that may be effected without specific authorization by the Central Bank are subject to a 10 per cent exchange tax. Administration of Control The Foreign Trade Department and the Depart- ment for the Control of Foreign Trade Transac- tions of the Central Bank of Chile are in charge of the operation of the exchange control system. Some functions of the former Department have been delegated to local commissions in important cities, and the supervision of copper exports and all imports of the copper industry has been dele- gated to the Copper Corporation, which is super- vised by the Central Bank and the Superintendency of Banks. Imports for the public sector are super- vised by the interministerial Import Committee for the Public Sector, on which the Central Bank is also represented. Prescription of Currency The proceeds of exports by the large copper companies must be received in U.S. dollars or other currencies specifically authorized by the Copper Corporation; these companies must pay their taxes and cover the local costs of their pro- duction in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Argen- tina, Colombia, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela must be made through accounts main- tained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central bank of the country con- cerned, within the framework of the LAFTA mul- tilateral clearing system. All other transactions with other countries may be settled in any cur- rency. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Cuba, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All imports, except those of the large mining companies and imports of defense materials, must be registered with the Central Bank. There is a List of Permitted Imports; commodities not ap- pearing on it are prohibited unless imported through a "free port" zone (see below) or unless on Chile's National List negotiated within LAFTA, when such goods may be imported from within the area. Certain other commodities may be con- sidered as effectively prohibited since, although 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE on the List of Permitted Imports, they are subject to an advance deposit requirement of 10,000 per cent. Goods may normally be imported in any amount. The Central Bank, however, is empow- ered to reject import applications (registrations), except those for goods covered by special laws, for any item on the permitted list if the total value of applications for imports in the previous month exceeds by more than 5 per cent the average monthly registrations for imports during the past 12 months; when applications are so rejected, the Central Bank must reject registration for all com- modities listed under the same customs tariff head- ing. This power has not been invoked since January 1966. Imports of goods not on the per- mitted list that are imported into "free port" zones, such as Arica, Magallanes, Aysen, and Chiloe, may not be shipped to other parts of the country unless they are first processed or assembled in the "free port" zone. Certain commodities (including automobiles and most trucks) may only be im- ported into a "free port" zone for use in that zone. Importers may purchase forward exchange as soon as their import application has been approved, but they may not take delivery until the compul- sory deferment period for import payments has been completed. For specified commodities, importers must, w i th in 50 days af ter shipment, purchase forward exchange corresponding to the fu ll registered value of the import against immedi- ate cash payment in local currency; this require- ment now applies to about 80 per cent of private sector imports. For supplementary lists of imports there are extended mandatory exchange cover periods of 120, 240, and 360 days. In all cases, however, the exchange cannot be remitted until 60 days af ter the date of the bill of lading. About 20 per cent of total imports are subject to advance deposit requirements, which must be discharged in escudos at the time of registration. The principal rates of deposit are 10, 20, 50, 100, 200, and 10,000 per cent; one item is subject to a rate of 500 per cent. The following imports are exempt f rom advance deposit requirements: imports by the Govern- ment, the municipalities, the universities, certain specified state enterprises, the large mining com- panies, and the fishing industry; imports financed by international organizations or under agreements for U.S. agricultural surpluses; imports on a 86 deferred payment basis (con cobertura diferida); many capital goods financed by the U.S. AID; imports into the "free port" zones; imports of foods into the principal mining area; imports to replace machinery and equipment damaged or destroyed in the 1960 earthquake; household and personal effects of travelers; personal effects of certain immigrants; household goods of re turn ing Chileans and resident foreigners; imports not of a commercial character and valued at less than US$100; and imports that originate in other mem- ber countries of LAFTA and are included either in Chile's National List for LAFTA countries or in Chile's List of Special Concessions extended to Paraguay and Ecuador. These exemptions do not apply to items subject to the 10,000 per cent deposit, except for imports from LAFTA coun- tries of goods on the Chilean National List, unless a specific exemption is granted by the Executive Committee of the Central Bank. The deposits may be refunded any time af ter 90 days, against evi- dence of clearance of the respective goods through customs. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control. Payment through the banking market is permitted for a few commercial invisi- bles; all other invisibles are settled through the brokers' market. Payments through the brokers' market may be effected up to established limits for the following purposes: for tourist travel (in addi- tion to f a r e s ), up to the equivalent of US$100 a person a journey to towns within 500 kilometers of the Chilean border, of US$250 a journey for travel elsewhere in Latin America, or of US$500 a jou rney outside Latin America; for fam i ly remit- tances (including remittances to students), up to US$200 a month for each beneficiary; for books, up to US$100 a person a month; for subscriptions to periodicals, up to US$200 a person a year; and for insurance premiums, up to US$1,200 a person a year.1 Payments for medicine and pharmaceu- tical products may be made, provided that the product in question is not available in Chile. Trans- fers in excess of these limits, and those in respect 1 This amount is for prem iums contracted in foreign currency w i th Chilean companies or foreign companies authorized to operate in Chile. For insurance taken put w i th other companies, the authorized bank requires special permission f rom the Superintendent of Insurance Companies to sell the exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of other transactions, require the prior authori- zation of the Central Bank. All purchases of exchange in the brokers' market, except those for which the Central Bank has approved a transfer application, are subject to a tax of 10 per cent. Residents of Chilean nationality and residents of foreign nationality who have spent more than a year in Chile, when traveling to countries outside Latin America, are required to pay a travel tax of E° 360 a trip. Travelers may take out any amount in Chilean banknotes. Resident travelers may take out 10 per cent of their travel allowance in foreign banknotes when traveling to countries outside Latin America; for travel in Latin America, up to US$60 is available in foreign bank- notes, or up to US$100 if the traveler agrees not to use the balance of his allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions for humanitarian rea- sons, exports to Cuba, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Additionally, exports of some items are prohibited or are subject to quota. All exports must be registered with the Foreign Trade Department of the Central Bank and the sale proceeds of exports other than those of the large mining companies are subject to surrender requirements. The large mining companies sell exchange to the Central Bank only to the extent needed to meet their local requirements to cover costs of production and tax liabilities. Most export proceeds subject to surrender requirements must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of shipment, but for specified goods this period is extended to between 120 days and 480 days. Export proceeds sold on a spot basis must be transferred to the Central Bank; other proceeds may be sold forward between 60 days before shipment and 10 days before expiration of the obligatory surrender period. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts of exchange from news and communi- cations agencies fees, from specified transactions by national insurance companies, from commis- sions, from reimbursements of insurance claims, and from credit granted in foreign currency by the commercial banks must be sold in the banking market. Exchange derived from other invisibles, CHILE including tourism, may be sold in the brokers' market or retained. Travelers may bring in any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital Capital may be brought into Chile through either exchange market. Normally, capital is sub- ject to the same exchange market treatment on exit as on entry; this policy applies also to remit- tances of dividends and profits on the capital. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of three different arrangements, depending on the purpose and the type of the investment. (1) Article 14 of Decree 1272 (September 7, 1962) stipulates that capital brought into the country in the form of foreign exchange may be sold freely in the brokers' market through author- ized banks when the investor (individual or cor- poration, national or foreign) has registered with the Central Bank. To this end, the Central Bank issues a nontransferable certificate which also permits the free outward transfer of the capital through the brokers' market. The remittance of profits or interest on this capital requires the authorization of the Central Bank. (2) According to Article 16 of the above Decree, the investor may enter into a loan agree- ment with a Chilean individual or corporation, or into an agreement with a national enterprise with a view to capital participation. In these cases, the investor has an option between the banking market and the brokers' market; the Central Bank guaran- tees access to the exchange market chosen for the entry of the capital, both for the servicing of loans and the re-export of capital, and for the remittance of interest and profits. The guarantee is given subject to certain conditions, one of which is a minimum investment period of 3 years. As an application and extension of Article 16, the Execu- tive Committee of the Central Bank on Novem- ber 3, 1963 took a decision to create an additional regime to further foreign investment in Chilean export industries. Under this regime, capital brought in for the promotion of exports of agricul- tural, industrial, and mining products may be sold in the brokers' market, while its repatriation may take place in the banking market, provided that the amount repatriated is financed from the increase in the volume of exports resulting from the invest- 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE ment. The regime is implemented through indi- vidual investment agreements in accordance with Article 16. Repatriation of the invested capital may start 2 years after entry and may amount to 12V4 per cent annually of the invested capital. In addition, the remittance of interest or profits is permitted annua l ly up to 7 per cent of the invested capital. The repayment of capital, and the transfer of interest or profits thereon, may be effected through the banking market, provided that the amount does not exceed 50 per cent of the amount of exchange resulting f rom the volume increase in exports. If this criterion prevents the transfer of the fu ll amount of amortization, interest, and profits through the banking market, the transfers may be completed through the brokers' market. The above privileges are only granted to firms that will not purchase foreign exchange in the banking market to acquire abroad any machinery, equip- ment, or capital goods on a cash payment basis. In a fu r ther extension of the regime under Arti- cle 16, on June 2, 1966, the Central Bank announced that it would guarantee the foreign exchange for repatriation of, and earnings on, imported capital, provided that certain conditions were met. These were that (a) the investment must be deemed to be of importance to the Chilean economy; (b) it must amount to at least US$100,000 or the equivalent in other currencies; (c) the capital must remain in the country for at least 3 years, and subsequent repatriation must not be more than 20 per cent a year, on a noncumula- tive basis; (d) the exchange must be sold in the banking market; and (e) the interest rate on credit to Chilean firms must not be higher than that in the domestic market. ( 3) The most important law governing foreign investment is Decree-Law 258 of 1960, which establishes a regime both for foreign exchange transfers and long-term capital investment. A Foreign Investment Committee studies the pro- posal and the Ministry of Economy approves by decree the particular investment; the Committee establishes both guarantees regarding withdrawal of capital and remittances of interest and profits and may also give special guarantees regarding exemption f rom payment of certain import sur- charges, customs duties, and taxes. Such privileges may be granted for a period of 10 years, with extension to 20 years in special cases. Remittances are effected in the same market (norma l ly the 88 banking ma rke t) through which the capital was brought in, and the investor has the right to use the exchange resulting f rom the export proceeds of his investment. Gold Gold bars may only be imported and exported by the Central Bank. The import of gold coins and of gold dust, leaves, and wire for industrial use is free of quantitative restriction but is subject to a 10,000 per cent advance deposit requirement. The Central Bank allocates gold for industrial use. It also makes gold available to industrial users in the form of Chilean gold coins. Changes during 1967 During the year many changes were made in the List of Permitted Imports and in the amounts of advance deposit applicable to specific items; only the more important of these changes are recorded below. January 4. A new customs tariff based upon the Brussels nomenclature was introduced con- solidating all the import surcharges and other taxes previously levied through the customs. January 6. Spices were made subject to a 10,000 per cent advance deposit. January 6. Certain automobile and truck parts were added to the List of Permitted Imports. January 10. The spot and fu tures rates in the banking market were unified at E° 4.46 (selling) per US$1; the rate in the brokers' market was depreciated to E° 5.08 (selling) per US$1. January 16. The lists of import items for which exchange coverage had to be arranged within 60 days and 300 days of import registration were extended. January 17. The authorization of import licenses for specified machinery, tools, and equipment was made subject to the approval of the Corporation de Fomento de la Production (CORFO). January 18. All letters of credit for imports were required to call for sight drafts. January 19. Settlement for travel abroad was permitted with privately held foreign exchange. January 30. Molasses, ethyl alcohol, and auto- bus bodies were added to the List of Permitted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports, subject to a 10,000 per cent advance deposit; certain types of buses on the list were also made subject to the 10,000 per cent deposit. January 30. When import registrations were given extended validities, importers could contract for foreign exchange w i th in the term of the regis- tration validity subject to a maximum of 210 days. January 30. The permitted terms of shipment for imports, previously limited to c.i.f., were liber- alized. January 31. The tax on certain purchases of foreign exchange in the brokers' market was increased f rom 6 per cent to 10 per cent. % February 8. The compulsory deferment period for import paymen ts was reduced f rom 70 to 60 days. February 8. The Central Bank's selling rates in the bank ing and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 4.56 and E° 5.18, respectively, per US$1. February 9. All direct or indirect trade with Rhodesia was prohibited, with the exception of certain exports for human i ta r ian reasons. February 9. The period in which foreign exchange cover for most imports had to be con- tracted was reduced f rom 70 to 60 days. February 15. Hotels in Magallanes Province were permitted to exchange foreign currency. February 17. Imports of rubber were made subject to a 100 per cent advance deposit. February 27. Certain agricultural machinery imported under the agricultural mechanization program was exempted f rom advance deposit requirements. March 6. Expenses entailed in dispatching merchandise for display at foreign fa irs were per- mitted to be settled through the banking market. March 7. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 4.65 and E° 5.27, respectively, per US$1. March 16. A max imum monthly foreign exchange quota of US$100 a person was intro- duced for travelers from Arica to Tacna (Pe ru ). March 16. Imports of specified parts for sewing machines were made subject to a 10,000 per cent advance deposit. CHILE April 4. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 4.75 and E° 5.37, respectively, per US$1. April 7. In addition to approval by the Central Bank Import Registry Division, an industrial instal- lation permit was required for imports of industrial equipment. April 25. The max imum net annual rate of interest which banking institutions could add to collection documents was lowered f rom 9 per cent to 8 per cent. May 2. As a result of the fu ll utilization of AID credits, the Central Bank regulations covering AID imports were suspended un t il fu r ther notice. May 5. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E ° 4.85 and E° 5.47, respectively, per US$1. May 18. A new List of Permitted Imports related to the revised customs tar iff was intro- duced; the number of categories of advance deposit was reduced to six. June 2. All direct or indirect trade with South Afr ica was prohibited, with the exception of cer- tain exports for human i ta r ian reasons. June 6. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 4.94 and E° 5.56, respectively, per US$1. June 20. Authorized banks were permitted to sell forward exchange for import payments only if the goods were covered by a duly approved import registration. June 20. The advance deposit requirement for imports of gold coins and other coins was raised to 10,000 per cent. June 26. Special terms were offered for exchange contracts for import payment cover negotiated at the time of import registration. Pro- visional rates of exchange were applied to these contracts, the contracts being amended after the exchange settlement to give importers a rebate at the equivalent of 5 per cent per annum for the period of the obligatory deferment. June 26. The advance deposit requirement on gold and p la t inum in the form of dust, leaves, and wire, for imports for dental and/or industrial uses was raised to 10,000 per cent. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE June 28. The Central Bank raised its selling price for Chilean 100-peso gold coins from the equivalent of US$22.50 to that of US$30. The difference would go into a new fund for credits to the Empresa Nacional de Mineria. July 4. New regulations covering global credits from foreign suppliers of small and medium-sized Chilean industries required such credits to be for at least five years, each individual transaction to be not less than US$15,000 and the same provisions concerning cash payments and interest rates to apply to such transactions as the provisions in force for imports with deferred coverage. The Industrial Commission was required to approve each application for imports under this type of credit and to ascertain proper availability of ser- vice and spare parts for the imported machinery and equipment and to ensure that the imports were consistent with the industrial development pro- gram. July 5. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 5.04 and E° 5.66, respectively, per US$1. July 8. The percentage of ad valorem customs charges on capital goods paid for out of the pro- ceeds of foreign loans was reduced by 20 for goods imported before January 1, 1968. (Goods subject to 20 per cent charges or less were, therefore, free of such charges.) August 1. Bills of lading covering imports under deferred exchange coverage had to be presented to the Central Bank within 90 days after the expiration date of the import licenses. August 1. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 5.16 and E° 5.78, respectively, per US$1. August 3. Exchange derived from foreign credits and/or loans and capital investments under the terms of Article 16 of Decree No. 1272 or Decree-Law 258 and sold in the banking market had to be surrendered to the Central Bank. August 30. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 5.24 and E° 5.87, respectively, per US$1. September 12. Delivery on sales of exchange by the Central Bank to the commercial banks, previously at 70 days, was extended to 72 days. 90 September 12. The requirement of a minimum cash payment (previously 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value) for imports under suppliers' credit was canceled. September 13. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 5.34 and E° 5.97, respectively, per US$1. September 14. Exchange allowances for tourism were reduced. For visits to towns within 500 kilometers of the Chilean border, the allowance became US$100; for travel elsewhere in Latin America, US$250; and for travel outside Latin America, US$500. September 22. Sunflower cake was added to the List of Permitted Imports, subject to a 10,000 per cent advance deposit. October 5. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 5.46 and E° 6.12, respectively, per US$1. October 10. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the Central Banks of Chile and Vene- zuela. October 23. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E ° 5.56 and E° 6.32, respectively, per US$1. October 24. Delivery on sales of exchange by the Central Bank to the commercial banks was extended to 75 days. October 25. The period in which foreign ex- change cover for most imports had to be contracted was reduced from 60 to 50 days. October 31. Delivery on sales of exchange by the Central Bank to the commercial banks was extended to 77 days. November 7. Delivery on sales of exchange by the Central Bank to the commercial banks was extended to 80 days. November 10. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 5.65 and E° 6.45, respectively, per US$1. November 14. Delivery on sales of exchange by the Central Bank to the commercial banks was extended to 82 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution November 23. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 5.71 and E° 6.57, respectively, per US$ 1. December 7. All transactions in foreign securi- ties were made subject to authorization by the Central Bank. December 7. An advance deposit requirement of 500 per cent was introduced; it was applied to one commodity. December 21. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 5.79 and E° 6.71, respectively, per US$1. CHILE 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA Exchange Rate System No par value for the New Taiwan Dollar has been established with the Fund. The official buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are NT$40 and NT$40.10, respectively. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also officially fixed, on the basis of the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and the par values of the cur- rencies concerned.1 Currencies for which rates are not officially fixed may be accepted by appointed banks, and the rates are calculated in accordance with the foreign market quotations. With certain exceptions, earners of foreign exchange must sell it at these rates to banks appointed by the Central Bank of China. Administration of Control The Executive Yuan is responsible for policies concerning foreign exchange and trade controls. The Foreign Exchange and Trade Commission (FETC) is the executive agency concerned with foreign exchange and trade matters. The functions of the FETC are to formu la te policies and plans on foreign exchange and foreign trade; to screen and approve the use of foreign exchange (includ- ing the issuance of exchange and trade licenses); to coordinate the use of foreign exchange with the international economic cooperation program; to determine the official buy ing and selling rates of exchange; to act as a coordinating agency among various authorities in connection with foreign exchange and trade transactions; and to deal with other relevant matters pursuant to orders of the Executive Yuan. Decisions of the FETC are implemented through the appropriate organiza- tions and appointed banks. Exchange and trade licensing is administered by several committees in accordance with the nature of the applications. These committees refer applications for import licenses to the FETC only in exceptional cases. The Central Bank of China is responsible for the over-all management of foreign exchange and the supervision of the appointed banks, of which the Bank of Taiwan is the most impor tan t. The Bank of Taiwan issues import and export licenses 1 These currencies are Au s t r a l i an dollars, Canad ian do l lars, deutsche m a r k, French f rancs, Hong Kong dol- lars, I ta l ian lire, Ma lays ian dollars, and pounds sterling. 92 on authorization from the FETC; however, licenses for imports under the U.S. farm surplus program are issued by the Bank of China. Prescription of Currency Export receipts must be obtained in Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Malaysian dollars, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. Also, these are the foreign currencies that may be used by residents of other countries to finance invest- ments in the Republic of China. Settlements with Spain are made in U.S. dollars through a bilateral account. The currency and method for making payments to residents of foreign countries other than Spain are not prescribed. Nonresident Accounts China's exchange control regulations do not provide for a clear distinction between residents and nonresidents. As a consequence, persons who would be considered nonresident under many other exchange control systems are not granted treatment essentially d ifferent from that accorded to residents of the Republic of China in exchange control matters. Accounts in new Taiwan dollars of persons who are residents of other countries are treated in the same way and are subject to the same regulations as other accounts in new Taiwan dollars. The exchange control regulations do not provide for blocked balances and blocked accounts held in the name of residents of foreign countries. Residents may ma in ta in accounts in U.S. dollars or Hong Kong dollars, as follows: Holders of for- eign banknotes may have these credited to Foreign Currency Accounts, and recipients of remittances from abroad or of money orders drawn on foreign banks may have the proceeds credited to Foreign Exchange Accounts. Balances in Foreign Cur- rency Accounts may be w i thdrawn in the original currency or in new Taiwan dollars, af ter conver- sion at the official buying rate. Balances in For- eign Exchange Accounts may be w i thd rawn in new Taiwan dollars; they may also be remitted abroad freely, with the exception that foreign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution that originated in the United States may not be remitted to Hong Kong. Foreign Exchange Accounts are subdivided into interest-bearing time deposits and passbook accounts (which do not bear in te res t ). Imports and Import Payments All imports require ind iv idual licenses. For virtually all commodities, license applications are screened by the Foreign Exchange and Trade Commission. When purchasing exchange to import goods in excess of US$400, the importer must submit evidence that he has acquired "patri- otic bonds"2 corresponding to at least NT$1.25 for every U.S. dollar of the landed value of the goods; exempt from this requ irement are educa- tional equ ipmen t, a i rc ra ft parts, and machinery financed with self-provided exchange. Exchange settlement corresponding to 50 per cent of the landed value of imports (20 per cent for raw cotton and 50 per cent for beef tallow financed under the U.S. f a rm surplus program) must be made w i th in 14 days of approval of the license. Provided that the foregoing requirement has been met, the holder of an import license is entitled to obtain the necessary foreign exchange from an appointed bank. Imports f rom communist coun- tries are prohibited. The Chinese authorities license and check imports from Hong Kong in order to induce importers to obtain certain imports direct from the country of production and to con- trol effec t ive ly imports f rom Mainland Ch ina; for s im i lar reasons, certain commodities are not per- m i t ted to be imported from Hong Kong and Macao. Certain commodities which still can be financed w i th U.S. aid funds can be imported only f rom the Un i ted States. Imports are divided into three groups: (1) pro- h ib i ted, (2) controlled, and (3) permissible. The prohibited imports comprise not only narcotics and some other goods usually excluded by most countries from importation but also a wide range of pharmaceuticals and a number of luxury goods and less essential items, such as certain Chinese luxu ry foods, cigarettes, cigars, liquor, jewelry, certain medicines, tea, sugar (and its sub s t i tu te s ), - "NT$500 m i l l ion pa t r io t ic bonds of fiscal year 1966," repayab le in 20 s em i annu al in s ta l lmen ts b eg inn ing on J a n u a ry 3, 1968, or "NT$500 m i l l ion pa t r io t ic bonds of fiscal year 1967," repayable b e g i n n i ng on J a n u a ry 3, 1969. CHINA and molasses. Liquor and cigarettes are imported from time to time by a government monopoly organization, which is also responsible for domes- tic distribution of these commodities. The con- trolled list contains three types of goods: some consumer luxu ry items; certain goods that are also produced locally of good quality and in suff ic ient quan t i ty to meet domestic demand and whose ex-factory prices are not more than 10 per cent higher than the landed, duty-paid prices of com- parable imported goods; and goods subject to regulation and allocation. The first two types are licensed restrictivelyf goods of the third type are often imported by government agencies, which offer them for sale either by allocation or by auc- tion. Imports on the permissible list are licensed liberally and can be made by both end-users and traders. The importation of items on the con- trolled list is permitted only to factories and end-users. According to the intended utilization, goods may be imported by one of three ma in groups of importers: government trad ing agencies, qualified private traders, and end-users and manufac turers. Commercial imports handled by government trad- ing agencies are confined to chemical fertilizers and crude oil. The Central Trust of China is the ma in government trading agency. It handles imports for government and m i l i ta ry organiza- tions, public enterprises, and other customers. Ano ther government trad ing agency is the Taiwan Supply Bureau, which is in charge of imports for the Taiwan Provincial Government, some local industries, and cer ta in other customers. Firms that wish to operate as authorized ("regis- tered") importers must obtain approval ("regis- t ra t ion") from the FETC and be registered by the Taiwan Provincial Depar tment of Reconstruction or the Reconstruction Department of Taipei City; the firms must be operating in accordance with certain laws and have a m in imum capital of NT$200,000 and an "export record" equivalent to more than US$50,000. Traders licensed to operate on a commission basis may act only as agents for traders or foreign suppliers. They also must be approved by the FETC. End-users and manu fac tu re rs are permitted to import raw materials, machinery, and replacement equipment needed for their factories. In granting licenses to this category of importer, the licensing 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA authorities take into account such criteria as pro- duction capacity and equipment. In processing applications for licenses to import capital equip- ment for the construction of new plants, the licens- ing authorities consider the feasibility of the project and its priority from the point of view of the eco- nomic needs of the country. Imports to be used for processing or producing goods for export are automatically licensed (e.g., raw cotton, wool, wood for the production of plywood). Private importers (i.e., importers other than government agencies and public enterprises) handle more than 70 per cent of the imports paid for with currencies provided from official exchange reserves. According to the methods of financing, imports may be divided into two broad categories: (1) imports for which exchange is allocated directly out of official exchange reserves, and (2) imports which are made without recourse to official exchange reserves and which comprise (a) those made under the U.S. farm surplus pro- gram and (b) those paid for with self-provided exchange or exchange supplied by foreign inves- tors, foreign lenders, or overseas Chinese. Imports obtained with self-provided exchange are those financed by importers out of their own foreign exchange obtained by them prior to their coming to the Republic of China or originating from exchange receipts exempted from the surrender requirement. With the exception of machinery and equip- ment imported by a productive enterprise for its own use, imports from all sources are subject to a defense surcharge equivalent to 20 per cent of the customs duty. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval from the FETC. Payments for invisibles directly related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. The transfer of interest, profits, and earnings on authorized foreign investments in the Republic of China may be made without restriction. Foreign exchange for payments for certain other invisibles is allocated only up to established l im i ts or on a percentage basis. Foreign techni- cians are allowed to remit to their dependents 94 abroad up to 70 per cent of their basic monthly salary (year-end bonus, profit sharing, overtime pay, and insurance payments are excluded); remittances of larger amounts require special approval. Employees of the Government or of educational institutions may remit to their depen- dents in Hong Kong or Macao up to HK$150 a month. Membership fees to foreign institutions and certain payments for news services, books, and magazines (personal subscriptions for refer- ence purposes) are approved up to certain limits. Receipts from local subscriptions to, and sales of, imported newspapers and periodicals are remit- table up to certain limits. Up to 70 per cent of the net amount of motion-picture film rental and of foreign entertainers' earnings may be transferred abroad; the remainder is to be used for local expenses and investment in the Republic of China. A max imum of US$2,400 a year is provided for tuition and living expenses during the first aca- demic year of students studying abroad. Individual approval is required if their total tuition and expenses exceed the US$2,400 limit. Residents are granted an exchange allowance equivalent to US$300 a trip (US$150 for each accompanying dependent under the age of 12) for any approved type of travel. For business travel, an allowance equivalent to US$500 a month for up to three months is granted for living expenses. All travel allocations are net of fares and tickets. Applica- tions for exchange to pay for certain other types of invisibles are approved as liberally as possible, account being taken of the merits of submitted applications. Persons leaving the Republic of China may take with them no more than NT$ 1,000 in domestic banknotes and coins and the equivalent of US$200 in foreign currencies. Those travelers who have stayed in the Republic less than six months may take with them any unspent portion of the foreign currency which they registered upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, mainly in order to ensure the surrender of foreign exchange. Licenses may be issued only for exports to non- communist countries. The re-exportation of imported goods is permitted after they have been processed. Exports of sugar, rice, and salt are handled by government trading agencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Quota limitations are maintained on the export of canned mushrooms, glutamic acid, and mono- sodium glutamate. The export of a few foodstuffs is restricted. There are also ceilings on the export of cotton textiles to Canada, Italy, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Minimum prices are established for exports of some ten commodi- ties. The FETC is empowered to authorize exports at prices below the m in imum export price. Manufacturers who use imported raw materials to produce goods for export are, after export of the processed goods, refunded various charges imposed on such raw materials, namely, import duties, defense surtax on import duties, harbor dues, and commodity tax. Some preferential treatment is accorded to payers of income tax related to the production of goods for export, provided that the taxpayers submit satisfactory proof of such exports; complete exemption from the tax is not granted, however. With minor exceptions, exporters are required to surrender exchange earnings accruing from exports immediately after their collection. Most exports to any permitted destination may be made on a consignment or collection basis, provided that payment is not deferred for more than 180 days from shipment. Subject to approval, bona fide gifts and commodity samples up to the value of US$100 may be sent abroad. When leaving the Republic of China, tourists are allowed to take out domestic products valued up to US$100 without providing evidence that they have surrendered foreign exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requirements applicable to proceeds from invisibles are generally similar to those applicable to export proceeds. Interest, earnings, and profits on investments made by Chinese investors outside the country, and origi- nally approved by the FETC, must be surrendered to the banks, but earnings from private invest- ments abroad that have not been financed by out- ward remittance may be retained. Private inward remittances may be retained by the recipients for deposit on a foreign exchange account, from which they may be transferred freely. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency and either hold or surrender it; the amount imported must be declared upon en try. CHINA The import of domestic banknotes expressed in new Taiwan dollars is limited to NT$ 1,000 for each traveler; a license from the Ministry of Finance is required for importing a larger amount. Capital Investments by foreigners may be made in capi- tal equipment or raw materials, or through the transfer of foreign currency to the Republic of China. In accordance with the Foreign Invest- ment Law of July 14, 1954, liberally revised in 1959, and the Statute for Encouragement of Investment, enacted in 1960 and revised in 1965, new foreign investments approved by the authori- ties are guaranteed (1) unrestricted transfer of net annual profits or earned interest; (2) repatria- tion of capital, including reinvested earnings, 2 years after completion of the investment plan, at an annual rate not exceeding 15 per cent, calcu- lated in relation to the originally invested funds; (3) the right to re-export invested capital in its original form; (4) favorable treatment in respect of rezoning and requisition of agricultural land for industrial use; (5) certain benefits with respect to business income tax and import duties; and (6) compensation for expropriation where the foreign investment constitutes less than 51 per cent, and immunity from expropriation for 20 years where the foreign investment constitutes at least 51 per cent, of the total investment. In addi- tion, foreign investments are granted treatment at least as favorable as that accorded to new domestic investments. Laws for the encouragement of for- eign investments provide for additional benefits in specific cases. To obtain the benefits of the investment laws, investments by foreign nationals must be made in enterprises conducive to the economic and social development of the country, such as mining, com- munications, and manufacturing for domestic needs. Preference is given to foreign investors who intend to produce goods for export or for replacing imports. Foreign investors who intend to make invest- ments in Taiwan stocks and wish to take advan- tage of privileges provided under foreign invest- ment laws, as described above, must obtain approval from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Purchases and sales of stocks by foreign investors must be made through the intermediary of regis- 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA tered brokers, such as the Trust Department of the Bank of Taiwan and the Trust Department of the Central Trust of China. Subject to approval, direct investments may be made outside the Republic of China in the form of technical know-how, semifinished products, locally manufac tured equipment, and remittances of for- eign exchange. Portfolio investment abroad by residents who are private persons is not normally permitted. Chinese nationals who wish to emigrate, and persons who had settled in the Republic of China and wish to return to their native countries, are not accorded any special transfer facilities in respect of proceeds from the liquidation of their assets in the Republic. Persons outside the Republic of China who acquired in the Republic assets or balances in new Taiwan dollars on account of dowries, inheritances, gifts, etc., are not normally granted the right of transferring them from the Republic. Gold Residents may hold gold in any form, but they require permission to buy or sell gold or to use it as security for a loan. Producers of gold must surrender their output to the Central Trust of China to have its fineness reduced to below 0.875; the gold is then auctioned to registered goldsmiths, who are permitted to sell only ornamental gold of a fineness less than 0.875. The importation of gold for investment purposes is subject to special approval. Residents may freely take out gold in the form of jewelry, provided that its weight does not exceed 2 shih Hang, i.e., 62.5 grams. Changes during 1967 March 3. The ban on the import of wheat was lifted. March 11. Motorcycles could no longer be brought in as personal effects of travelers. May 8. The required prepayment for imports was reduced from 100 per cent to 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value. August 11. Article II of the Regulations Gov- erning Investment in Foreign Countries was revised. Investments outside the Republic of China could, subject to prior approval, be made in the form of outward remittances as well as in the form of technical know-how, semifinished products, and locally manufac tured equipment. August 18. Purchases of Chinese goods by the U.S. Army Procurement Agency became payable in U.S. dollars. Previously, they were settled in local currency. November 3. The restriction that only end- users and factories could import machinery and equipment valued at over US$500 was terminated. December 8. Thirty-one commodities were shifted from the controlled to the permissible import list. December 29. The criteria for inclusion of import commodities in the controlled list were revised. The max imum price differential over comparable foreign products was reduced from 15 to 10 per cent, and the period during which any commodity could remain on the controlled list was shortened from three to two years. 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Exchange Rate System On December 17, 1948, a par value for the Colombian Peso was established by Colombia with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic or the author- ized banks in two official markets —the exchange certificate market, in which the rate fluctuates, and the capital market, in which the rate is fixed. On December 28, 1967 the average selling rate in the certificate ma rket was Col$15.82 per US$1, while the selling rate in the capital market was Col$ 16.30 per US$1. There are also certain other effective exchange rates. The different exchange rates and the types of transaction to which they apply are set out in the Table of Exchange Rates, below. The buying rate for proceeds from coffee exports is Col$12.14 per US$1, and that for most other exports is Col$18.12 per US$1. Most imports are paid for at the certificate market rate. Most payments and receipts in respect of current invisibles and capital take place at the capital market rate. Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior registra- tion at the Exchange Registration Division of the Superintendency of Foreign Trade. Exchange for payments must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic. The Monetary Board periodically draws up a foreign exchange budget for the two exchange markets. It also establishes priorities w i th in that budget for the delivery of exchange, af ter making the necessary reservations to cover the obligations of the Bank of the Republic and to service the external debt of the public agencies and the National Coffee Federation. Over-all import and export policy is determined by the Board of Foreign Trade. The Superintendency of Foreign Trade, through the Import Board, controls imports that are subject to prior licensing. The Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad, and controls the movement of for- eign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, commissions, and royalties for trade- marks and patents. The Exchange Control Pre- fecture, which is attached to the Ministry of Devel- opment, enforces control and supervision over exchange transactions and is responsible for applying penalties for violation of the exchange regulations currently in force. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts related to international transactions are normally effected in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Denmark,1 Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Spain, and the U.S.S.R. for commercial transactions must be made through a clearing account in accordance with the pro- visions of the relevant bilateral payments agree- ment. Under the agreement with Denmark, goods originating in third countries and purchased in one of the agreement countries may be settled through the agreement account by mu tual consent of the partners. The National Federation of Coffee Growers has concluded payments agree- ments with Bulgaria, Rumania, and Yugoslavia. Payments between Colombia and Argentina, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, and Peru are made through accounts maintained by the Bank of the Republic with the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clear- ing system. Nonresident Accounts Credit establishments are authorized to receive short-term deposits in foreign currency from physical or juridical persons not resident in Colombia, and these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any exchange that they may wish to convert into Colombian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. Before releas- ing the accounts of nonresidents, banks must obtain prior authorization from the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments Legislation empowers the Board of Foreign Trade to classify imports as follows: goods whose 1 The agreement w i th D enm a rk was t e rm in a t ed on Ma rch 31, 1968. 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA import is prohibited; goods whose import is sub- ject to prior licensing by the Superintendency of Foreign Trade; and goods that may be imported freely. However, in practice no goods may be imported freely other than specified goods imported from Ecuador or Paraguay. Prior registration of the import transaction at the Exchange Registration Division is required for all imports other than those with an f.o.b. value of less than US$20 (or US$40 for books). The charge for import registration forms is Col$5.00 for imports valued at less than US$20.00 and Col$ 100.00 for other imports. Advance import deposits in Colombian currency must be made with the Bank of the Republic before import registration is permitted; the deposit is returned 90 days after the goods have cleared customs. The advance import deposit is payable at one of the following rates, depending on the type of goods: 1 per cent, 5 per cent, 10 per cent, 30 per cent, 70 per cent, 95 per cent, and 130 per cent. The following imports are exempt from prior deposits: nonreimbursable imports (i.e., goods for which no foreign exchange is requ ired); imports brought into Colombia under special import-export arrangements (Vallejo P lan); goods included in the Colombian National List and the special lists granting concessions to LAFTA countries; goods financed with U.S. AID credits; noncommercial capital goods and components imported by the Government, Departments, municipalities, official undertakings, semiofficial bodies, and public service agencies, and noncom- mercial goods when intended for mineral explora- tion or operations; goods exempt by virtue of an international agreement; capital goods, compo- nents, and raw materials imported by firms spon- sored and supported by the Government, and firms holding foreign commitments backed by the Government; machinery and equipment com- ing under the tariff headings for the basic indus- tries; goods of prime necessity imported by the National Institute of Supply ( INA ); scientific and literary books, newspapers, and reviews that make a contribution to the culture of the Colombian people, together with capital goods for the pro- duction of such items; and sacramental wine. The advance deposit is calculated on the f.o.b. value of the goods, at the average rate for exchange certificates for the previous month. 98 A prior exchange license is required for all payments for imports; licenses are granted by the Exchange Office, provided that it is satisfied that the goods have been cleared through customs and that payment is due. At least 20 days prior to filing an application for an exchange license, the importer must provide a peso advance deposit equivalent to at least 95 per cent of the exchange requested, calculated at a rate to be announced from time to time by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the average exchange certificate price for the preceding month. Exempt are payments to cover the commitments of the Government, Departments, municipalities, and official agencies, remittances to students abroad, and payments for imports financed with foreign credits extended to the Bank of the Republic, goods for general consumption imported by the National Institute of Supply, and payment for the crude oil acquired by the national petroleum company (Ecopetrol) for refining in Colombia. In addition to customs duties, there is an ad valorem tax on imports equal to 3 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Of the amounts collected, 50 per cent goes to^ the Export Promotion Fund, while the remaining 50 per cent goes to the national budget to compensate for the revenue loss from a reduc- tion of 1 y2 per cent in the coffee export tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are made at the exchange certificate rate for expenses of students engaged in studies abroad sponsored by the Colombian Institute for Technical Training Abroad (ICETEX); payments for contractual obligations sold to the Bank of the Republic before September 2, 1965 or registered therewith; and government, departmental, and municipal debt service payments. Other payments for invisibles are made at the capital market rate. Exchange licenses for payments for invisibles are granted according to officially established pri- orities and within the limits set bimonthly in a foreign exchange budget by the Monetary Board. Transfers for travel abroad are limited to US$30 a person a day, not to exceed US$1,350 a person a year; this limit may be raised to US$50 a day and US$4,500 a year when the travel may be especially beneficial to the country; transfers to professionals and technicians undertaking courses ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution abroad are restricted to US$450 a month, while for other students the ceilings vary from US$120 to US$200 a month, depending on the cost of living in the country concerned. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period not exceeding three months may, on leaving the country, purchase foreign currency not exceeding US$60 on presentation of their boarding pass. Colombian nationals and resident foreigners are required to pay a travel tax of Col$500 when- ever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of Colombian products may be made freely, except when the law provides otherwise. Prior application for registration is required for all exports except crude oil, samples, and Colom- bian products in noncommercial quantities. If the application meets all legal requirements, approval is stamped on the application form, i.e., registration is granted. When registering an export transaction, the exporter must provide a personal guarantee in pesos (but without depositing any amount) corresponding to the full export value, to ensure that the proceeds will be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic. The periods for surrender- ing export proceeds are as follows: (1) for coffee exports, within 20 days from the date of registra- tion of the sale contract, if the said contract is used with shipping documents inside the country, and within 10 days from the date of the bill of lading if the contract is used with that document; (2) for banana exports, 60 per cent of the value must be surrendered within 10 days following the registration of the export, and the remaining 40 per cent within 60 days after the registration; (3) for exports of products containing imported raw materials, 180 days from the grant of registra- tion; and (4) for other exports, within 90 days from the same date. The Bank of the Republic is empowered to retain 10 per cent of the exchange proceeds sur- rendered by the exporters of products other than coffee to repay foreign debts contracted prior to June 30, 1965. All other exchange proceeds from exports, except those from the export of crude oil not produced by Empresa Colombiana de Petro- leos, must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic. COLOMBIA On surrendering their export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than coffee, petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts, and cattle hides receive tax credit certificates in an amount of 15 per cent of the total earnings surrendered, converted at the exchange rate used for import deposits and payments. These certifi- c^tes, which are freely negotiable, are accepted at par after one year by tax offices for the payment of income tax, additional taxes, customs duties, and sales taxes. The surrender of foreign currency earned by exports is carried out by exchanging the foreign currency for exchange certificates that are nego- tiable in the bankers' market. The surrender price for exports other than coffee varies with fluctuations in prices in the world market. Coffee exports are subject to the following additional regulations: (1) The sur- render price (reintegro) is fixed at US$61.70 per 70-kilogram bag. (2) Exporters pay a tax at the rate of 23 per cent ad valorem on December 31, 1967. Of this tax, 4 percentage points are paid to the National Coffee Fund while the remainder provides revenue for the Special Exchange Account, of which the net product forms a contribution to the national budget. This tax is being reduced at the rate of % per cent a month until December 1968. However, there will be no change in the 4 percentage points going to the National Coffee Fund. (3) Exporters must surrender in kind to the National Federation of Coffee Growers and without payment the equiva- lent of 19 per cent of the volume of Excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention). Proceeds from Invisibles All ^xchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered; with minor exceptions, they are con- verted at the capital market buying rate of Col$ 16.25 per US$1. Capital All foreign investment in Colombia and the movement of capital previously imported must be registered with the Capital Division of the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic. Capital imports other than amounts of less than US$100,000 or capital imported for petroleum exploration or exploitation, or for mineral explora- 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA tion, also require prior approval by the Planning Department. Capital registration entitles the debtor to export profits and to repatriate capital at the capital market rate on certain conditions. The transfer of profits is limited to 10 per c en t2 of the net capital value in any one year, except for profits resulting from investments of outstanding importance or involving special risks in view of the circumstances prevailing in the international money market. Capital invested in the petroleum industry is subject to special rules and to con- tractual provisions. Likewise, contracts involving royalties, com- missions, trademarks, patents, and similar arrange- ments must be registered with the Exchange Office to enable the beneficiary to make transfers abroad through the capital market. Colombian investors abroad must surrender to the Bank of the Republic not only the interest, profits, commissions, and royalties, but also the proceeds of the sale or liquidation of the principal investment at the capital market rate, or invest the product in "pro Colombia" bonds. Proceeds from foreign loans granted to official bodies in Colombia and to be serviced through the certificate market are converted at the certificate market rate. Gold Physical and juridical persons may trade in Colombia in gold coins for collection purposes 2 This percentage was raised in March 1968 to 14 per cent for 1968 prof i ts. only. With this exception, only the Bank of the Republic is entitled to purchase, sell, hold, or export gold. The Bank of the Republic purchases the gold produced in the country at US$35.00 per fine ounce and is empowered to pay up to 50 per cent in foreign currency on presentation by foreign capital mining companies of exchange licenses entitling them to make payments abroad for services, dividends, capital repayments, taxes, etc. The remaining 50 per cent and all payments to the small producers are paid in pesos at the capital market exchange rate. On selling their gold to the Bank of the Republic, the producers receive tax credit certificates equivalent to 15 per cent of the value of the gold sold. The certificates held by the small producers are bought by the Bank of the Republic in Colombian pesos at their nominal value. The Bank of the Republic makes sales of gold for industrial use either directly or through the Colombian Mining Association, on presentation of exchange licenses, at a price of US$35.00 per fine ounce, plus a charge of 5 per cent for refining and handling and 10 per cent for the Export Promotion Fund. The assay and refining houses and the mining companies producing gold are under the super- vision of the Exchange Control Prefecture. In addition, the mining companies must obtain a license from the Prefecture in order to carry on their operations. 100 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1967) (pesos per U.S. dollar) Buying Selling COLOMBIA 12.14 (Certificate Market Rate less 23%) Coffee exports. 15.76 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) Net proceeds f rom exports of crude oil and petroleum derivatives by Ecopetrol (Article 158 of Decree-Law No. 444).s Exports of cattle hides. Loans to pub l ic entities. 16.25 (Capital Market Rate, Fixed Rate)4 Exports f rom f ree ports. Pr iva te loans. Invisibles. Exchange sales by foreign petroleum companies. O ther fore ign capital. Repatriation of Colombian cap i tal and of p ro f i ts accru ing to Colombian capital abroad. 18.12 (Certificate Market Rate plus 15% Tax Credit Certificates) All o ther expor ts except those from f ree ports. Changes during 1967 During the year, a large number of changes were made in the regulations applicable to advance import deposits. Only the principal instances are listed below. January 24. Decree No. 85 added a number of commodities to the Colombian National List of concessions granted to other LAFTA member countries. January 25. All advance import deposits were increased by 50 per cent by Monetary Board Resolution No. 6. February 15. The advance deposit require- ments were practically restored to their September 1965 levels by Monetary Board Resolution No. 9. New rates of advance deposit (70, 95, and 130 per cen t) were introduced. February 22. The Bank of the Republic signed a trade and payments agreement with Poland, to replace the agreement between the Na t ional Feder- ation of Coffee Growers and that coun try. 9.00 (Fixed Rate) Purchases of crude oil f rom fore ign-owned com- panies for domestic r e f in ing. 15.82 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) Imports except those into free ports. Expenses of students sponsored by ICETEX. Off ic ial services. Ex ternal public debt. Service on (1) private obli- gations in foreign exchange contracted at the free market rate prior to October 25, 1964 and regis- tered in accordance w i th Article 28 and following of Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965, and (2) p r iva te loans whose proceeds were sold to the Bank of the Repub l ic according to Article 33 of that decree. 16.30 (Capital Market Rate, Fixed Rate) Impor ts into free ports. Import freight. Other invisibles. Other foreign debt. Profit remittances and capital repa tr ia t ion. March 13. Law No. 6 gave the President of the Republic extraordinary powers to put into force new regulations on exchange and foreign trade. March 22. Decree-Law No. 444 was published to embody regulations covering the whole field of exchange and foreign trade. It laid down rules for the negotiation and holding of foreign currencies; set up the exchange certificate market and the capital ma rke t; laid down regulations for the handling of the gold trade by the Bank of the Republic; set out rules for the export and import trade and established special incentive arrange- ments for exports; created the Export Promotion Fund; contained provisions for capital investments in Colombia and abroad; provided regulations for earnings and foreign debt service; introduced exchange regulations for the petroleum and min- ing industries; established new functions for the exchange and foreign trade agencies; and set up the Exchange Office and the Export Promotion Fund. Article 233 of the Decree-Law abolished 3 Rece ip ts f rom expo r ts of c rude oil by fore ign-owned c om p a n i es need not be surrendered. 4 The B a nk of the R e p u b l ic pu rchases gold f rom domes- tic producers at a price corresponding to Col$18.69 per US$1, e q u i v a l e nt to the c a p i t al m a rk et b u y i ng ra te p l us 15 per cent. 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA the remittance tax previously levied on certain outward transfers of capital and capital earnings. March 22. The Monetary Board issued Resolu- tion No. 13 establishing the supply and demand in each of the exchange markets on the basis of the powers contained in the exchange law, fixed the rates of exchange for those markets, and issued other provisions to bring the new regula- tions into force. April 4. Decree No. 569 laid down that the gradual reduction of % per cent a month in the coffee tax, embodied in Decree-Law No. 444, could be accelerated if fiscal resources made this possible or the position on the world market made it desirable. April 6. Monetary Board Resolution No. 17 set out the rules for the handling of the gold mar- ket operated through the Bank of the Republic. Foreign capital mining companies could remit abroad the foreign exchange they received as part payment for the gold sold by them, in order to meet certain expenses abroad, and to cover divi- dends, capital amortization, taxation, etc. April 6. The Monetary Board issued Resolu- tion No. 18 fixing at 5 per cent the prior deposit for imports of capital goods provided that certain conditions were previously met, such as that the minimum value of the imports of such goods should be US$250,000. April 6. The Monetary Board issued Resolu- tion No. 20 authorizing the Bank of the Republic to constitute foreign currency deposits in credit establishments up to an amount required to carry on its operations. The resolution also fixed time limits for using exchange licenses. The Bank of the Republic was empowered to use for paying off unfulfilled obligations up to 10 per cent of the exchange surrendered by exporters who had registered external debts. Rules were laid down for making foreign loans to individuals. Coffee exporters were required to purchase foreign cur- rency on the capital market in order to make good any difference between the m in imum sur- render price fixed for coffee exports and the actual sales price abroad, when the latter was lower. April 20. Decree-Law No. 688 modified certain aspects of the exchange system set up by Decree- Law No. 444. 102 April 20. Decree-Law No. 691 set up the Price Control Division within the Superintendency of Foreign Trade for the purpose of controlling the prices of imported commodities. April 26. Monetary Board Resolution No. 21 laid down that, despite the ban of Decree-Law No. 444 on holding foreign currency deposits, it should be lawful for certain physical and jurid- ical persons to hold such deposits and to use them for their normal operations. The Monetary Board would prepare every two weeks a budget for both exchange markets in which the necessary reserves would be included for paying the external debts of public bodies. April 28. Decree No. 747 reduced the coffee export tax by 1 % percentage points. May 2. Decree No. 813 clarified Decree No. 747 by explaining that the reduction of 1 % percentage points mentioned therein was only applicable to surrenders resulting from coffee contracts regis- tered on and after April 28, 1967. May 3. The minimum surrender price for coffee was changed to US$61.50 per 70-kilogram bag. May 6. Decree No. 819 provided a subsidy of Col$4.50 per U.S. dollar to offset the increase of the amount of foreign debt of public bodies caused in 1967 by the difference between the exchange rate previously in force in the prefer- ential market and the current exchange rate. May 7. The Board of Foreign Trade issued Resolution No. 6 shifting certain commodities from the prohibited import list to the prior authori- zation regime. May 9. The National Planning Council issued Resolution No. 1 defining what was meant by foreign capital investment in Colombia. The reso- lution also fixed a limit of 10 per cent of the net value of foreign investments for the profits that could be remitted each year, although the figure could be raised in certain cases by the Council. It was laid down that all foreign investment would require prior approval by the Planning Depart- ment, except in certain specified cases. The pro- cedural rules for the approval of investment and for determining the net value of investments made in foreign currency were laid down, and the instances in which investors had the right to repatriate the principal sums were specified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May 10. The Monetary Board issued Resolu- tion No. 25 setting out the regulations for the Export Promotion Fund, including such points as its purpose, the maximum percentage of financ- ing, the rate of interest, and time limits. May 13. The Monetary Board issued Resolu- tion No. 26 setting down rules for selling the foreign currency deposited in credit establishments within Colombia or abroad prior to November 29, 1966, or for investing the said currency in "pro Colombia" bonds. The resolution also laid down a time limit for selling to the Bank of the Republic any foreign currency imported through the capital market. May 17. The Monetary Board issued Resolu- tion No. 27 defining what was meant by "exchange operations" for the purpose of control by the exchange authorities. Tourists were empowered to acquire foreign currency up to US$60 on leav- ing the country. May 26. Decree No. 970 laid down that imports made on the basis of 40-year loans should be exempt from the prior deposit require- ment, but they would still require import licenses. June 6. Decree No. 1065 laid down that the % per cent a month reduction in the coffee export tax would apply to coffee sales contracts regis- tered on and after July 1. June 9. The Monetary Board issued Resolu- tion No. 29 laying down rules for advance sur- render of foreign currency arising from exports other than coffee. The resolution also authorized persons coming within the category of "temporary residents" to make free use of foreign currency and other securities they might own abroad. June 12. The National Planning Council issued Resolution No. 2 defining the meaning of "Colom- bian capital abroad" and "repayment of Colom- bian capital abroad," and laid down that prior approval by the Planning Department would be required for new investments abroad. The Coun- cil made it obligatory to surrender to the Bank of the Republic the proceeds from profits, interest, loan repayments, technical services, and the repatriation of capital from these investments. June 19. Decree No. 1165 listed the tar iff positions for imports entitled to enter the country under the "minor imports" arrangements, pro- COLOMBIA vided that their f.o.b. value was less than US$20, or US$40 for books. June 19. Decree No. 1178 listed the com- modities which might be imported without prior deposit. July 5. The Bank of the Republic signed a trade and payments agreement with Eastern Ger- many, to replace a similar agreement signed by the National Federation of Coffee Growers. July 12. The Monetary Board issued Resolu- tion No. 39 altering the requirements to be met in order to benefit from the 5 per cent prior deposit arrangements on imports of capital goods, by reducing the minimum f.o.b. value of such imports to US$100,000. The National Institute of Supply ( INA) was exempted from the 95 per cent deposit normally required for payments in respect of imports of essential consumer goods. July 17. Decree No. 1339 added to the list of items that might be imported under the "minor imports" arrangements. July 25. The Bank of the Republic signed a trade and payments agreement with the U.S.S.R., replacing a similar agreement previously signed by the National Federation of Coffee Growers. August 16. The Monetary Board issued Reso- lution No. 44 laying down rules for the advance surrender of foreign currency arising from exports with a value of more than US$500,000. September 6. The Monetary Board issued Reso- lution No. 48 fixing the rate of exchange applic- able to the final settlement of advance surrender of foreign currency. September 13. The Monetary Board issued Resolution No. 49 setting out the time limits, inter- est rates, and method of repayment of foreign loans to individuals in Colombia. September 27. The minimum surrender price for coffee was reduced from US$61.50 to US$60.00 per 70-kilogram bag. October 17. The Board of Foreign Trade issued Resolution No. 15 containing the new procedural regulations for the processing of import applica- tions. October 20. Decree No. 1938 extended to Venezuela the Colombian National List of con- cessions to LAFTA countries. 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA November 2. Decree No. 2008 laid down regulations governing petroleum. Permission was given to pay in foreign currency for crude oil to be refined in Colombia. This permission was not granted for the current output of Ecopetrol and 25 per cent of the output of other producers, which would have to be paid in Colombian cur- rency. November 10. The Monetary Board issued Resolution No. 58, which made the capital market rate applicable to purchases of exchange for the following operations in foreign currency: oil exploration on private property; payment for movement of oil products by public pipeline; costs of operation of private pipelines; oil explora- tion; transport and distribution of liquid petroleum gases; and payment for taxes, land use fees, and royalties. November 15. The minimum surrender price for coffee was increased from US$60.00 to US$61.70 per 70-kilogram bag. December 6. The Monetary Board issued Reso- lution No. 66 exempting Ecopetrol from the 95 per cent deposit on payments for the crude oil it purchased in foreign currency for refining in Colombia. December 6. The Bank of the Republic signed a trade and payments agreement with Hungary, to replace one previously signed by the National Federation of Coffee Growers. December 31. The bilateral payments agree- ment with Finland was terminated. 104 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Congo (Brazzaville) has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially ma in ta ined at the rate of CFAF 1 == 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relation- ship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange trans- actions in French francs between the BCEAEC and commercial banks take place at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange ma rket rate for the currency concerned, and include a com- mission. Forward exchange transactions, which are permitted in any currency and for any period, take place at freely negotiated rates. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings, whether spot or fo rwa rd, by residents or nonresidents, whe ther banks or nonbanks. For noneconomic reasons, all settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited and all payments to Por- tugal require prior au thor iza t ion; settlements with Mainland Ch ina, with which Congo (Brazzav i l le) has concluded a bilateral payments agreement, must, in principle, be made through special accounts.2 With these exceptions, there are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements, although certain controls are applied to borrowing and lending abroad, to issues and sales of foreign securities in Congo (B razzav i l le ), and to inward and ou twa rd direct investment (see section on Capital, be low). In practice, settlements w i th countries outside the French Franc Area are usually made through cor- respondent banks in France, either in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs; settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are usually made in currencies of that Area, in prac- tice mainly in French francs. The following is applicable to payments and transactions between Congo (Brazzaville) and all 1 The CFA f r a nc c i r cu l a t ing in Congo is issued by the Banque Centrale des E t a ts de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Came roun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Cen t ral A f r i c an Repub l ic, Chad, and Gabon. -Th e re also are inope ra t ive paymen ts agreemen ts w i th N o r th Korea and M a l i. foreign countries y except Mainland China, Portu- gal, and Rhodesia. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, which may be held in Congo or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in CFA francs or in any foreign currency may be held in Congo by any nonresident. Balances on nonresident-held accounts may be transferred freely to any type of resident or nonresident-held account and used for any payment in Congo or abroad, including the purchase of any foreign cur- rency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment, includ- ing any amount of interest. There are no restric- tions on the physical importation or exportation of foreign or domestic securities. Imports and exports of gold require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Congo's control measures affecting inward and outward direct investment, borrowing and lending abroad, and issues and sales of foreign securities do not apply to relations with ( 1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; ( 2) the other member countries of the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, and Gabon ); and ( 3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volt a ). Administration of Control The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issue or sale of foreign securi- ties in Congo (Brazzaville), and inward and out- ward direct investment. The Ministry of Finance issues authorizations for the import and export of gold and for payments to Portugal. All payments and receipts between Congo (Brazzaville) and foreign countries that are made through banks or postal channels are registered, for statistical pur- poses only, by the BCEAEC, through the inter- mediary of the institution executing the t rans fe r; the BCEAEC also addresses inquiries to the princi- 3 Foreign coun t r ies are de f ined as all countries other t h an Congo (B razzav i l le ). 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) pal firms and agencies concerning inward and out- ward payments made in other manners, particu- larly by the offsetting of claims and debts. These data are collected by the BCEAEC for the com- pilation of the balance of paymen ts only. All registered banks in Congo are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs. Imports and Import Payments Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All imports of Portu- guese or Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Imports from all other countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program is deter- mined by a joint French-Congolese Committee. The import program does not include petroleum imports, for which a joint quota is determined for the countries of the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union. Separate global quotas are established for imports from EEC countries (other than France) and for imports from all other countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas for EEC countries may be used only to import goods origi- nating in those countries; the quotas for the other countries may be used to import goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area, including those in the Soviet countries and Main- land China. Licenses for liberalized commodities originating in EEC countries other than France are issued automatically; such liberalized imports are not included in the quotas for EEC countries. Imports of certain products from non-French Franc Area countries are subject to special ceil- ings, which are established in the import program separately for EEC countries other than France and for all non-French Franc Area countries. Imports of certain products from some low-wage countries of the Far East are limited by a special ceiling. For goods included in the annual import pro- gram, the Ministry of Economic A f f a i rs publishes each year an announcement of the quota allotted to each registered importer in accordance w i th, inter alia, his import business in the previous year. 106 The importer submits to the Ministry an applica- tion for a license within the limits of the quota that has been assigned to him. Import licenses are valid for one year, and no extensions are granted except for specially manufac tured goods when evidence is presented concerning the delay in manufac ture. Imports of certain goods are not permitted unless the importer also buys a certain quantity of the local product. The National Trading Office (Office National du Commerce or OFNACOM) has a monopoly over certain imports, including the importation from all sources of salt, cement, and rice. Payments for imports from any country may be made freely, at any time, and without any formal- ity. Commodity fu tu res may be dealt in freely, in Congo or abroad. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license, except those to Portu- gal, which require the prior approval of the Min- ister of Finance, and those to Rhodesia, which are prohibited. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in domestic and foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of cotton and minerals, exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely; exports to all destinations of coffee, cacao, palm oil, groundnuts, bananas, cot- ton, gold, and diamonds are subject to individual license. All other exports are free of individual license. Certain agricultural commodities are exported by an official agency, the National Mar- keting Office for Agricultural Products (Office national de commercialisation des produits agn- co / ^o rONCPA ). Exports are free of exchange control, with the exception of exports to Mainland China, which must be settled through special accounts, and exports to Rhodesia, which are prohibited. The repatriation and surrender of export proceeds is not required. Exporters may grant credit for any period and are free to sell forward their antici- pated export proceeds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Except in relations with Main- land China, Portugal, and Rhodesia, there are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents and the proceeds f rom invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by the banks of issue of Guinea and Mali is prohibited or limited to certain amounts for each traveler. Capital All capital movements between Congo (Brazza- ville) and Rhodesia are prohibited, while those between Congo and Portugal require prior approval, and those between Congo and Mainland China must be made through special accounts. The situation in respect of other countries is as follows. Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license, through banks or any other channel. Foreign and domestic securities of all types may be freely imported or exported physically, whether through the interme- diary of a bank or not, and transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic and foreign real estate (except when forming part of a direct investment) are unrestricted. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation and may (except when forming part of a direct invest- men t) be freely disposed of. Certain controls are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investments, and over the issuing, advertis- ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Congo (Brazzaville), but these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. The control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) Direct investments ab road4 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct invest- ments in Congo 5 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Congo must also be declared to the Minister, unless the opera- tion involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in Congo. Both the making and the liquidation of direct invest- ments, whether these are Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Congo, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Congo (Brazzaville) requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are opera- tions in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Government, and ( 2) shares similar to securities whose issue, adver- tising, or offering for sale in Congo has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of 4 Inc lud ing those made through the in termed iary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Congo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Congo. 5 Inc lud ing those involving the cession between non- residents of a participation in the capital of a Congolese company. 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Congo (Brazzaville) and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans con- tracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The con- tracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans granted by registered banks, and ( 2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Under the Investment Code of June 1961, as amended on December 29, 1962, any enterprise established in Congo (Brazzaville), whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain con- ditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Preferential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Congo (Brazzaville); it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon). Prefer- ential treatment C is reserved for enterprises of 108 prime importance to the country's economic devel- opment; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 20 years. The granting of any one of the three kinds of preferential treatment automatically includes the application of specified exemptions from direct taxes which are granted under the provisions of the ordinary law (see above). Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Finance, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. After an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment A is granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an act of the Execu- tive Committee of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment C requires legis- lation. Gold By virtue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold in Congo (Brazzaville) gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry, but they require the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance to hold gold in any other form or to import or export gold in any form. Exempt from the latter requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAEC, and (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles). Changes during 1967 July 1. Law No. 12/67 of June 21, 1967 estab- lished the principle that financial relations with foreign countries with which Congo maintained economic and financial relations were free. With minor exceptions, all existing legislation contrary to this principle was revoked, including Decree No. 62/255 of August 27, 1962 and Ordinance No. 62/15 of August 27, 1962. The law also pro- vided for the statistical registration of all inward and outward payments. Previously, current and capital payments to French Franc Area countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution already were unrestricted; they were also free of supervision, as were inward transfers originating in French Franc Area countries. The import and export of gold remained subject to prior author- ization by the Minister of Finance. The commis- sion of 0.6 per cent on transfers to countries out- side the French Franc Area (0.1 per cent for petroleum and petroleum products) was abol- ished. Normally, the repatriation and surrender of claims, earnings, and proceeds accruing abroad would no longer be required. Import and export regulations were not affected, although the related exchange control formalities were abolished; these included the requirements that import licenses and import certificates be domiciled with an author- ized bank, and that exporters sign a foreign exchange commitment in respect of all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. July 1. Decree No. 67/150 of June 30, 1967 established the principal rules for the application of Law No. 12/67. The decree defined the con- cepts of "foreign countries," "residents," and "nonresidents," and indicated the types of capital transactions with foreign countries that would be subject either to declaration or prior approval. It also provided that the import and export of gold and diamonds required the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance (in accordance with Decree No. 66/236 of July 29, 1966), that the freedom of payments with foreign countries did not apply to countries with which Congo (Brazza- ville) no longer maintained commercial and finan- cial relations, and that all payments between Congo (Brazzaville) and foreign countries had to be notified to the Office of Foreign Financial Rela- tions. July 1. Decree No. 67/151 of June 30, 1967 created the Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance to replace the Exchange Office that had administered exchange control. It was entrusted with, inter alia, (1) the application of Law No. 12/67 and Decree No. 67/150, (2) CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) the periodic compilation of a national balance of payments, (3) the collection of the necessary data for the latter purpose, and (4) the observation of foreign investments. Article 14 of the decree introduced a tax of 0.2 per cent on imports and exports that would be collected by the customs. July 1. Arrete No. 3242/MF of July 10, 1967 ruled that all declarations and applications for approval that were prescribed in respect of capital transactions by Law No. 12/67 and Decree No. 67/150 had to be submitted to the Office of For- eign Financial Relations. The Arrete also provided that payments to countries with which Congo (Brazzaville) no longer maintained commercial and financial rela- tions required the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, to whom applications had to be sub- mitted through the Office of Foreign Financial Relations; payments in respect of imports from such countries, however, were exempt from authorization, provided that evidence could be submitted of the entry of the commodities into Congo (Brazzaville). Finally, the Arrete ruled that all settlements between Congo (Brazzaville) and foreign coun- tries had to be communicated to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations or the BCEAEC (depending on the manner in which settlements were m ad e ), that the latter was charged with the collection of the relevant data obtained by the banks and the postal administration, and that the BCEAEC should submit every month to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations a provisional balance of payments that the latter could use to prepare the general balance of payments. July 18. Notice No. 3447 conferred on the National Trading Office (OFNACOM) a monop- oly over the import under foreign credits, on behalf of government agencies, of certain cotton piece goods from Japan, certain other textiles from Mainland China, and certain other com- modities (including rice) from all sources. 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Demo- cratic Republic of Congo has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Zaire. The gold content of the zai're is 1.777432 grams and the official rate of exchange is Z 1 = US$2. The buying and selling rates for other cur- rencies are fixed on the basis of official cross rates between each of those currencies and the U.S. dollar. The National Bank of Congo buys and sells foreign currencies against za'ires at rates dif- fering not more than 1 per cent from the official rate. It charges a commission of %0 of 1 per cent on currencies it requisitions and of 1 per cent when foreign currencies are sold on the initiative of the authorized banks. The official buying and selling rates were Z 50 per US$100 on Decem- ber 30, 1967. Forward exchange transactions are prohibited. Administration of Control The National Bank of Congo has regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments. Spe- cifically, the Bank has discretionary power to authorize payments and receipts in foreign exchange by residents of the Democratic Repub- lic, and to permit the importation, exportation, and transit of goods. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents must be received in listed convertible currencies.1 Special authori- zation for the acceptance of other currencies may only be given in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Payments to nonresidents must be made in the listed currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in Zaires and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts. Nonresident Accounts in Zaires may only be debited for settlements in the Democratic Republic. 1 The listed currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Portu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 110 Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited for any permitted payment to a nonresi- dent; they may be debited freely for transfers to other Resident and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts and to accounts abroad. Nonresident nationals require special authorization from the National Bank to open these accounts with author- ized banks; nonresident foreigners may open them freely. Imports and Import Payments The importation of a number of goods is pro- hibited on grounds of public policy. All imports are subject to individual licensing, but licenses are granted freely. Applications for import licenses, whether requiring foreign exchange or not, are made initially to authorized banks in Kinshasa. This application and, where appropriate, the application for a foreign exchange authorization specifying the terms of payment are forwarded to the National Bank after certification. After approval of the application by the National Bank, the import license application is returned to the authorized bank for validation. Import licenses are validated by the authorized banks within 15 days and remain valid for a period of six months dating from the prior approval for validation by the National Bank. Foreign exchange is made available for all licensed imports, the validated license constituting at the same time an exchange license. Where the exporter requires full or partial payment upon shipment, the authorized bank must not validate the license unless it receives a deposit in local currency corresponding to the full c.i.f. cost of the merchandise. Payments for Invisibles Policy related to payments for invisibles is formulated by the National Bank. Payments are subject to authorization by the National Bank, which is given or refused on a nondiscriminatory basis. The Bank will not authorize exchange for the payment of commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents or, except for imports pay- able on arrival, for insurance on imports. Trans- fers abroad of salaries of foreign nationals are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authorized within the limits set out in agreements with their respective employers. Transfers in respect of certain administrative expenses abroad by enterprises, interest on private loans, and cer- tain portions of insurance premiums are, as a rule, authorized. No exchange is presently made avail- able for transfers of investment income. Fares for travel abroad may be paid in the Democratic Republic in local currency; for resi- dent foreign nationals, however, the fare must not exceed the price of a return trip by a direct route to the country of their origin. Congolese nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Z 400 a trip; applications exceeding this amount are subject to individual approval by the National Bank. There are no limitations on the amount of domestic or foreign banknotes that travelers may take out. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses. Banks are nor- mally authorized to grant these to exporters who submit a declaration in which they undertake to collect the exchange proceeds. The declaration must specify the nature of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Export licenses are normally valid for three months; within this period, the proceeds must be received and sur- rendered. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. There are no limitations on the import of domestic or foreign banknotes by travelers. Capital With minor exceptions, transfers abroad of capital owned by residents or nonresidents are not permitted. The sale of real estate located in the Democratic Republic can only be made to the Congo Government, against payment in zaires; gratuitous transfers of real estate are subject to approval by executive ordinance. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users are not DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The import and export of gold in any form, except jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, require the prior approval of the National Bank; licenses for imports are not normally issued. Changes during 1967 February 28. A 10 per cent tax was introduced on the value of imports for which quotas had been or would be granted to importers in the first four months of 1967. The tax rate was scheduled to be increased to 15 per cent on imports for which quotas were to be granted in the second and third four-month periods of 1967. March 20. An advance deposit of 40 per cent of the c.i.f. value was required for all imports when application for an import license was made; the deposits would be refunded upon customs clear- ance. This requirement was additional to that of the deposit of the Congo franc counterpart when letters of credit were opened abroad on behalf of importers. April 24. The portion of export earnings to be placed at the disposal of export producers (other than the five largest mineral exporting companies) was increased from 22.5 per cent to 32.5 per cent; the additional 10 per cent portion was freely negotiable. April 24. Fertilizers, seeds, insecticides, fungi- cides, and herbicides were added to the list of liberalized imports. June 23. A new currency unit, the zaire, replaced the Congo franc at a rate of Z 1 = CF 1,000. The official exchange rate was estab- lished at Z 1 = US$2. In terms of Congo francs, the new unified rate substituted for the previous buying and selling rates of CF 150 and CF 180, respectively, per U.S. dollar was equivalent to CF 500 per U.S. dollar. June 23. Authority over foreign trade and pay- ments, including the authorization of imports, exports, and transfers, was delegated to the National Bank of Congo, with an announced policy of general liberalization of imports and current payments. The import quota system, the 10 per cent tax on imports under quotas, and the 111 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 40 per cent advance import deposit requirement were abolished. The system of retrocession of foreign exchange earnings and of exchange alloca- tion agreements was discontinued, as was that of separate licenses for imports and import payments. The restrictions on payments to nonresidents for services supplied to the Democratic Republic were eliminated. June 23. The limitations on the import and export of domestic and foreign banknotes by travelers were abolished. Imports and exports of domestic and foreign banknotes by banks were also freed from restrictions. June 23. Payment in the Democratic Republic for tickets for travel abroad by Congolese nation- als or by foreign nationals returning to the country of their nationality could take place in local currency. July 6. A revised customs tariff was introduced that provided for the application of both customs duties and duties of a fiscal character. December 28. The visa of the National Bank was no longer required on license applications for imports of raw materials and spare parts by the Government or by official and semiofficial agencies. 112 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.134139 gram of fine gold per Costa Rican Colon or 0 6.625 = US$1. The Cen- tral Bank buys exchange derived from exports and other exchange tendered to it at a fixed rate of 0 6.62 per US$1. Exchange at the official rate is granted for listed essential imports, specified invisi- bles, and a few types of capital transfers. Official exchange is also granted for all imports origi- na t ing in Central America or Panama when covered by the Central American free trade trea- ties or Costa Rica's special trade agreements with Panama, even when these commodities are not included in the list of those eligible for official exchange. All other sales and purchases may be made freely in a fluctuating f ree market, in which the rate is pegged from time to time. The buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the free ma rket were 0 7.77 and 0 7.80, respectively, per US$1 on December 29, 1967. Mixing rates arise from the fact that transfers at the official rate of interest and dividends on registered capital are limited to 10 per cent of the registered amoun t, while amounts in excess of that percentage can be transferred through the free marke t. Mixing rates also arise when the Central Bank allows exporters using raw materials that have been paid for in the free ma rket to sell part of their export proceeds in the free market. Costa Rica accepted the obliga- tions of Article VJ I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 1, 1965. Administration of Control The exchange controls are operated by the Cen- tral Bank of Costa Rica. Purchases and sales of official market exchange are made through the Central Bank or through commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The free exchange m a rk et is conducted by commercial banks and licensed exchange houses. Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Pay- ments to Poland may be made through special U.S. dollar accounts established under a paymen ts agreement with that country. Payments to El Salvador, Gua tema la, Honduras, and N ica ragua in respect of trade and specified invisibles are made in Costa Rican colones and at the official rate through the Camara de Compensation Centroame- ricana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries; the docu- ments must be expressed in colones and require approval by the Central Bank, which is given for payments for all imports of Central American origin and for those current invisibles and capital transfers to which the regulations of the official exchange market apply. The central banks of these four countries may also engage in transac- tions in Costa Rican notes and coins, up to the equivalent of US$40,000* a month for N icaragua and up to the equivalent of US$10,000 a month for each of the other countries. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade and invisibles that are eligible for access to the official market may also be made in Costa Rican colones through the clear- inghouse, in accordance with the Agreement on Clearing and Reciprocal Credits between the Bank of Mexico and the member banks of the clearing- house; the documents must be expressed in colones and require the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank. There are no transactions with Mexico in Costa Rican notes and coins. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Afr ica are prohibited. There is no system of import licensing and all payments may be made freely. Some imports, however, are made on a barter basis; these require a barter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exchange at the official rate is granted for the c .i .f. value of ( 1) specified essential commodities from any source, (2) all imports f rom Central American countries and f rom Panama that are covered by the provisions of regional integration agreements, and (3) goods imported prior to Janua ry 2, 1967. To be eligible for official exchange, imports of the specified essential com- modities must be registered with the Central Bank within two months of arrival at a national port. Their registration serves as an application for offi- cial exchange. The Central Bank grants permis- sion to purchase exchange cover in order of regis- 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA tration. All other goods may be freely imported, provided that they are paid for through the free market. Official exchange is not granted for com- modities on the list of essential imports that are also produced in acceptable quality either in Costa Rica or Central America, provided that these com- modities are available in satisfactory volume and at adequate prices; prior authorization by the Min- istry of Industry and Commerce is required to purchase official exchange for the importation of any goods on the list that are also produced in Costa Rica. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely through the free market. Exchange at the official rate is only granted for freight and insurance on imports effected at the official rate; for dividends, interest, and amortization on registered foreign capital; servicing of debts contracted before Janu- ary 2, 1967; indispensable payments of the Cen- tral Government; and normal expenses in foreign currency on export transactions settled through the official market. The allocation for interest and dividends is 10 per cent of the registered capital. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. The Central Bank supervises exports to assure a supply of exchange to the official exchange market. Export licenses from the Central Bank are neces- sary for the physical exportation of merchandise, and the license is granted if the exporter agrees to surrender the exchange proceeds at the official rate; the Bank may require the exporter to provide a guarantee in this respect. In addition to the export license issued by the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: ( 1) strate- gic materials, such as armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scraps of nonferrous base metals, require export licenses from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; (2) sugar requires an export license from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce in order that shipments under the sugar quotas may be controlled; (3) lumber and root of ipecacuanha require export licenses from the Institute for Lands and Colonization; (4) beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred and other cattle require export licenses from the National Council of Production; (5) airplanes require 114 export licenses from the Civil Aviation Board; (6) Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay require export licenses from the National Museum; (7) tobacco requires an export license from the Tobacco Defense Board; (8) certain livestock and animals and plants of forest origin require a permit from the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock; and (9) coffee requires a sales contract approved by the Coffee Office, in order to control exports under the coffee quotas, and when there is a lien on the coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be surrendered within 60 days of exportation or, if the goods were sold on credit, upon expiry of the term of the credit. Foreign-owned banana com- panies that have contracts with the Government must surrender their net export proceeds calcu- lated by deducting from their gross export pro- ceeds (1) profits obtained during the year from their transactions in Costa Rica; ( 2) a sum equiva- lent to the depreciation on their investments in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in foreign currency; and (4) the cost of imports made during the year that were necessary for their normal business in Costa Rica. There are export taxes on bananas, sugar, and coffee. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered at the official rate within 60 days of accrual, with the exception of the following, which may be retained or sold in the free market: diplo- matic and similar salaries and expenses; tourist expenditures; family remittances and other per- sonal remittances; settlements on insurance claims, provided that the premium was financed in the free market; and commissions received by agents of foreign firms. Capital Inward and outward transfers of capital through the free market may be made freely by residents and nonresidents. The Organic Law of the Central Bank provides that foreign capital entering through the official market may be registered with the Cen- tral Bank in order to be ensured access to that market for the transfer of interest, profits, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution amortization. Incoming capital must be registered to become entitled to servicing at the official rate. Incoming capital may be sold freely in the free market if it is foreign capital that did not elect registration and surrender at the official rate or if it is national capital returning from abroad. The only outward transfers of capital permitted to be made at the official rate are repayments on certain private and public debts and amortization on regis- tered foreign capital; for the latter, the amounts are determined individually by the Central Bank. Gold Only the Central Bank is permitted to deal in gold coins and gold bars in Costa Rica with per- sons or organizations that are not banks; any such transactions must be made direct with the buyer or seller, without the intermediary of commercial banks. Any physical or juridical person who has or acquires gold coins or gold bars must sell these to the Central Bank within 60 days from the date on which they became his property; exempt are small amounts in coin collections, jewelry, or family keepsakes. The Central Bank supplies unworked gold to licensed artistic and professional users. Imports of gold are made only by the Cen- tral Bank. Changes during 1967 On many occasions during the year, commodi- ties were added to or deleted from the list of essen- tial imports entitled to exchange at the official rate. January 2. The free exchange market was reac- tivated. The Central Bank ceased to sell official exchange, except for ( 1) the c.i.f. value of speci- fied essential imports, ( 2) goods imported prior to January 2, (3) contractual remittances of inter- est, dividends, and amortization on past and fu tu re registered foreign capital investments, (4) payment of debts contracted with first-class foreign financial institutions prior to January 2, (5) indis- pensable payments of the Central Government, (6) normal expenses payable in foreign currency on export transactions settled through the official market, (7) imports of commodities originating in Central America and covered by the free trade treaties of that area, and ( 8) imports of products originating in Panama and covered by the trade agreements concluded with that country. The COSTA RICA Central Bank was authorized to add goods to, and delete goods from, the list of essential imports. Access to the free market was unrestricted; any type of payment for which official exchange was not granted could be made through it. Export proceeds were required to be surren- dered within 60 days of exportation, or, if the goods were sold on credit, at the expiration of the term of the credit. All other receipts of foreign exchange had to be surrendered within 60 days of accrual, except the following, which could be retained or sold in the free market: (1) diplomatic and similar salaries and expenses, (2) tourist expenditures, (3) family remittances and personal remittances received by residents, (4) insurance claim settlements, provided that the premium had been financed in the free market, (5) incoming foreign capital that did not elect registration and surrender at the official rate, (6) national capital returning from abroad, ( 7) commissions received by agents for foreign firms, and (8) any other type of receipt that the Central Bank might deter- mine. January 2. Imports of the listed goods eligible for official exchange were required to be registered within two months of arrival of the goods at a national port, registration serving as an application for official exchange; authorization to purchase exchange cover would be granted in order of registration. January 2. The Central Bank reminded the public that it was empowered to authorize exporters who imported their raw materials through the free market to sell part of their export proceeds in the free market. January 2. Remittances at the official rate of interest and dividends together on foreign capital registered through the official market could not exceed 10 per cent a year on the registered amount. The max imum percentage for transfers at the official rate of amortization on such capital would be determined by the Central Bank on a case-by-case basis. January 2. Persons owing debts abroad had to register these with the Central Bank. The Bank would grant official exchange to service these debts in the light of the availability of exchange and the prospects for the balance of payments. 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA January 2. Payments at the official rate to Cen- tral American countries had to be made in colones through the Central American clearinghouse. The Central Bank could permit payments at the official rate to Mexico to be made in colones through the clearinghouse. January 18. For the first time, certain items were added to the list of essential imports entitled to official exchange. January 18. It was announced that official exchange would not be granted for commodities that were also produced either in Costa Rica or in Central America in acceptable quality and were available in satisfactory volume at adequate prices. Prior authorization by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce was required to purchase official exchange for the importation of goods on the list of essentials if these were also produced in Costa Rica. March 31. Decree No. 26 raised substantially the rates of the consumption tax on many com- modities and made the tax applicable to a number of commodities that had been exempt. The rate of tax was fixed at 0 24,500 on automobiles with a weight of over 1,650 kilograms, 0 1,145 on refrigerators and freezers of over 10 cubic feet, and 25 per cent on radios. April 25. The commercial banks were per- mitted to operate in the free market. They began to quote a uniform daily rate. July 18. Law No. 3914 of Ju ly 17, 1967 replaced the consumption tax with a general sales tax. The general rate was 5 per cent, but for cer- tain luxury goods the rate was 25 per cent. October 14. Law No. 3914 was amended by the introduction of a 10 per cent rate of sales tax, in addition to the existing rates of 5 per cent and 25 per cent. December 15. Law No. 4015 prohibited all imports from and exports to South Africa. 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Cyprus Pound or <£C 1 = US$2.40. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rate for sterling, with which the Cyprus pound is at par, and London market rates for sterling against other currencies. The rate for the U.S dollar on December 31, 1967 was US$2.40% buy ing, US$2.40% selling, per <£C 1. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Cen- tral Bank of Cyprus; trade controls, by the Min- istry of Commerce and Indus try. Certain au thor i ty to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange within the scope of instructions issued by the Central Bank of Cyprus has been delegated to the authorized banks. Au thor i ty to introduce, adapt, and supervise controls on exports of pota- toes has been delegated to the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, while exports of cereals are licensed by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Prescription of Currency Cyprus is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Cyprus and resi- dents of other Sterling Area countries may be made free ly in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Settlements with countries covered by bilateral payments arrangements must be made through the appropriate account.1 Payments to other countries except Rhodesia may be made by cred i t ing sterling or Cyprus pounds to an Ex ternal Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds; the proceeds of exports to such countries may be received in sterling or Cyprus pounds f rom an Ex ternal Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds. Settlements with Rho- desia are subject to special regulations; paymen ts for exports to Rhodesia must be received in a non- Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. 1 Cyprus has b i la te ral paymen ts a r rangemen ts invo lv- ing se t t lemen ts th rough c lear ing accounts w i th Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, Ea s te rn G e rm a n y, H u n g a r y, Po l and, R u m a n i a, and U.S.S.R. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents of Cyprus and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area, and the funds on all such accounts are freely transferable within the Sterling Area. Residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may maintain with authorized banks nonresident accounts, designated External Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments from the Sterling Area, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales by nonresidents of non- Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. External Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rhodesia. They may be credited with (1) pay- ments f rom External Accounts, (2) payments by residents of the Sterling Area that are made by check, bill, or d ra ft drawn on or before Novem- ber 11, 1965 or under irrevocable credits opened on or before that date, ( 3) the proceeds of sales by, or on behalf of, the account holder to an authorized dealer of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds, and (4) transfers from other Rhodesian Accounts. Rhodesian Accounts may be debited for ( 1) payments to resi- dents of any coun try made by check, bill, or d ra ft drawn on or before November 11, 1965 or made under an irrevocable credit opened on or before that date by a bank in Cyprus or Rhodesia, ( 2) payments to residents of the Sterling Area for goods that had been delivered or shipped to Rhodesia on or before November 11, 1965, (3) living expenses in Cyprus of the account holder or his fam i ly, (4) insurance premiums payable to companies in the Sterling Area on personal poli- cies taken out prior to November 11, 1965 by the account holder or his fam i ly, (5) bank charges due to authorized dealers in Cyprus, (6) sterling travelers checks and personal letters of credit issued by banks in Rhodesia and encashed in Cyprus, and (7) transfers to other Rhodesian Accounts. 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of a nonresident for certain payments of a capital nature which, under the existing exchange control regulations, may not be transferred outside Cyprus. These accounts may be in the form of deposits with local banks earnings interest which may be freely transferred abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Most imports from other countries may be made freely under an open general license, which applies to all sources except Albania, Bul- garia, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rho- desia, Rumania, South Africa, Tibet, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Individual import licenses are required for all goods originating in countries to which the open general license does not apply and for some 70 items from all sources (certain agricultural and textile products, a few metals, and most nonelectrical machinery); for a few of these items, no licenses are granted, while for most of the others licenses are granted freely. Individual import licenses are not required for bona fide gifts up to <£C 10 in value and not to be sold, for returned goods, or for certain special import transactions. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. All remittances to countries outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Insurance premiums due to foreign insur- ance companies are remittable after deduction of all expenses and contingencies in respect of any claims. Maintenance remittances are allowed on application accompanied by documentary evidence of hardship. For certain categories of payments, limits are imposed mainly for the purpose of pre- venting illicit capital outflow. For study abroad, the lower limit is £C 400 a year, and the upper limit is £C 1,400 a year; the amount allowed de- pends on the cost of living in the country con- 118 cerned—e.g., for study in countries in the Middle East, £C450; in the United States and Canada, £C 1,400; in other countries, £C 850. Higher amounts for student allowances may be granted on production of sufficient documentary evidence. For tourist travel, the limit is £C 250 a person annually; for business travel < £ C5 to £C25 a day is granted in addition to the tourist allowance. The basic tourist allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia. Resident travelers may take out Cyprus notes up to £C 10 and foreign cur- rency notes up to the equivalent of £ stg. 50. Nonresident travelers may take out £C 10 in Cyprus notes and any amount of foreign currency notes that they brought into Cyprus. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to control by the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, and those of wheat and barley to control by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Exports to Sterling Area countries, with minor exceptions, are free from licensing, irrespective of their amount; exports to other countries are free from licensing when the f.o.b. value does not exceed £C 75. Goods destined for countries outside the Sterling Area are subject to a further control to ensure repatriation of the sales proceeds in an appropriate manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in non-Sterling Area currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and Cyprus currency notes. Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts or payments in Sterling Area currencies. Receipts in other currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank; payments of a capital nature in those currencies require prior approval. Foreign investments in Cyprus by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. In considering applications, due regard is given to the purpose of the investment, the extent of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution possible foreign exchange savings, the number of persons to be employed, the extent of the foreign exchange liability which might arise from the investment, and possible competition with existing industries. Foreign investment involving participa- tion in domestic industries not exceeding 49 per cent of the share capital is normally approved; participation above this limit may be permitted in exceptional circumstances. Proceeds from the liquidation of approved foreign investments may be repatriated in fu ll at any time, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Foreign nationals who repatriate or take up residence outside the Sterling Area, and Cypriots who emigrate to countries outside the Sterling Area, may transfer abroad up to <£C 5,000. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require prior permission from the authorities. CYPRUS Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With this ex- ception, residents other than the monetary author- ities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are only permitted to import gold for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The export of gold requires the permission of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1967 May 4. The open general license ceased to apply to imports from North Korea, Tibet, and North Viet-Nam. May 18. All non-Sterling Area currencies were designated as specified currencies. November 20. The par value was changed from <£C 1 = US$2.80 to <£C 1 = US$2.40. 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY Exchange System No par value for the currency of Dahomey has been established with the Fund. The unit of cur- rency is the CFA Franc, which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afri- que de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting f rom the relation CFAF 1 =r F 0.02, plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Forward exchange transactions, which are permitted in any currency except the currencies of Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa, and for any period, take place at freely negotiated rates. The domestic negotiation of banknotes and coins that are legal tender in Guinea or Mali is prohibited, and both domestic and foreign transactions in the currencies of Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are pro- hibited; otherwise there are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings, whether spot or for- ward, by residents or nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. With the exceptions noted below, there are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements, although certain controls are applied to borrowing abroad, to issues and sales of foreign securities in Dahomey, and to inward and outward direct investment (see sec- tion on Capital, be low ). All settlements with Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are pro- hibited for noneconomic reasons; settlements with Eastern Germany, Ghana, Hungary, and the United Arab Republic, w i th which Dahomey has concluded bilateral payments agreements, must in principle be made through special accounts, but in practice all payments agreements are inopera- tive. In practice, settlements with countries out- side the French Franc Area are usually made through correspondent banks in France, either in any of the currencies of those countries —pro- vided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs; settle- ments with other countries of the French Franc Area are usually made in currencies of that Area, in practice mainly in French francs. The following is applicable to payments and transactions between Dahomey and all foreign countries 2 except Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, which may be held in Dahomey or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in CFA francs or in any foreign currency may be held in Dahomey by any nonresident. Bal- ances on nonresident accounts may be trans- ferred freely to any type of resident or non- resident account and used for any payment in Dahomey or abroad, including the purchase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment, including any amount of interest. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of foreign or domestic securities. Imports and exports of gold are controlled and restricted; these require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Dahomey's control measures affecting inward and outward direct investment and borrowing abroad do not apply to relations with (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; ( 2) the other member coun- tries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union (Ivory Coast, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l t a ); and ( 3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzav i l le), Gabon, and the Malagasy Republic), provided that they accord Dahomey reciprocity in respect of freedom of payments and transfers.3 1 The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des E ta ts de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the com- mon cu r rency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Foreign coun t r i es are de f ined as all coun t r ies o ther than Dahomey. •''Early in 1968, Mali also established an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury and liberalized its exchange control. 120 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance, Economic A f fa i rs, and Planning supervises borrowing abroad by resi- dents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Dahomey, and inward and outward direct investment. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the postal adm in is tra t ion, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All banks in Dahomey are permitted to carry out foreign exchange trans- actions. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic A f fa i rs in the Ministry of Finance, Economic A f fa i rs, and Planning. Permission to import or export gold, however, is granted by the Minister of Finance personally, and exports of diamonds require the prior approval of the Directorate of Mines. There are three special offices for the import and export of precious metals and precious mineral materials. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped f rom Portugal, Rhodesia, or South Afr ica are prohib- ited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are pro- hibited from all sources. Imports of all other goods from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely without an import license. Imports of all other goods f rom EEC countries other than France may also be made free ly; goods that have not been liberalized require a license, which is issued automatically. Certain imports are liberalized when originating in OECD countries other th an Japan. Imports of nonliberalized com- modities f rom OECD countries, all imports from Japan, and all imports f rom non-OECD coun- tries are subject to licensing; they are adm i t ted in accordance with an annual import program, which is determined each year in a jo int French- Dahomean Committee, as provided for by the Economic Cooperation Agreement with France. Under this program, global quotas are established for imports f rom all countries outside the French Franc Area except EEC countries. A few specified commod i t ies4 are subject to individual ceilings within the global quotas when originating in non-EEC countries outside the French Franc 4 These commod i t ies are piece goods u n p r i n t e d) and veh ic les and spare pa r ts. ( p r i n t ed and DAHOMEY Area. The quotas determine the limits up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities to licensed traders and to industrial or agricultural producers. Certain textiles are licensed freely outside the import program. Payments to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for imports f rom all other countries may be made free ly, at any time, and w i thout any forma l i ty. Commodity fu tu res may be dealt in freely, in Dahomey or abroad. Payments for Invisibles With the exception of payments to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica, which are pro- hibited, all paymen ts for invisibles may be made freely w i thout ind iv idual license. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in domestic and foreign banknotes. However, per- sons normally resident in Dahomey, when travel- ing to a country that is not a member of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, must declare to the customs authorities at the point of exit the amount of BCEAO banknotes they are carry ing if this amount exceeds CFAF 150,000. Travelers also may freely take out up to ten gold coins, irrespec- tive of denomination or face value. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries are free of license, except those of gold and diamonds. Exports of gold requ ire the prior approval of the Minister of Finance personally, and those of diamonds must be authorized by the Directorate of Mines. Holders of an exporter's card are entitled to receive licenses for certain imports still subject to restriction, provided that the goods are related to their export activities and are not resold in the ir original fo rm; however, no exporters' cards have yet been issued. Exports are free of exchange controls. The repatriation and surrender of export proceeds is not required. Exporters may grant credit for any period and are free to sell forward their antici- pated export proceeds. Proceeds must not be received in or from Portugal, Rhodesia, or South A f r ica. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY Proceeds from Invisibles Services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Except in relations with Guinea, Mali, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa, there are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents. The proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Such proceeds must not be received in or f rom Portugal, Rhodesia, or South A f r ica. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes and coins other than Guinean and Malian banknotes and coins, whose import is prohibited. Travelers may also bring in up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Capital All capital movements between Dahomey and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are pro- hibited. The situation in respect of other countries is as follows. Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely w i thout a license, through banks or any other channel. Foreign and domestic securities of all types may be imported or exported freely, whether through the intermediary of a bank or not, and transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic and foreign real estate (except when fo rm ing part of a direct inves tmen t) are unrestricted. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation and (except when fo rm ing part of a direct inves tmen t) may be freely disposed of. Certain controls are maintained over borrow- ing abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, offer ing for sale, or in troduc t ion of foreign securities in Dahomey, but these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Dahomey, the controls do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account. 122 Foreign direct investments in Dahomey,5 and Dahomean direct investments abroad,6 must be declared to the Minister of Finance when they are being made, unless they take the fo rm of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of undis- tributed profits. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The total or partial liquidation of either type of direct investment is also subject to prior declaration to the Minister. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Dahomean invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Dahomey, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, offer ing for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Dahomey requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt f rom authorization, however, are operations in connection w i th ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Dahomean Government, and ( 2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Dahomey has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or jur id ical per- sons, whe ther public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Daho- mey, or by branches or subsidiaries in Dahomey of jur id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior au thor iza t ion by the Min- ister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans consti- tu t ing a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions 5 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Dahomey that are d irec t ly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Dahomey of foreign companies. 0 In c lud ing those made through the in te rmed ia ry of foreign companies t h at are d i rec t ly or ind i rec t ly con- trolled by persons in Dahomey and those made by b ranches or subs id iar ies abroad of companies in Dahomey. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution either between Dahomey and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be notified to the Minister of Finance within 20 days, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad is not subject to authoriza- tion or declaration. Banks in Dahomey may freely grant overdrafts on nonresident accounts for any period. The Investment Code of December 31, 1961 provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in industry, agriculture, and, in some cases, commerce, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Three preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for small and medium-sized investments and provides for exemp- tion, during a period of up to 5 years, from import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the production of the proposed product. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a max imum period of 8 years and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, exemption du r ing the first 5 years of operation f rom the tax on industrial and com- mercial profits as well as certain other taxes. Plan C is intended for very large enterprises and is granted for a period of up to 25 years. In addition to the benefits of Plans A and B, Plan C guarantees marke t ing stabilization for products, free choice of suppliers, and certain other advantages. Gold Residents are free to hold gold in any form, at home or abroad. They are also free to acquire and dispose of gold in any form in Dahomey. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt f rom this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO, ( 2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a m inor DAHOMEY quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles), (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles (other than coins and bars) whose combined weight does not exceed 500 grams, and (4) imports and exports of up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Both licensed and exempt imports of •gold are subject to customs declarations. Changes during 1967 March 22. Decree No. 96 created a Directorate- General of Economic A f fa i rs in the Ministry of Finance, Economic A f fa i rs, and Planning. May 4. Dahomey signed the Protocol of Asso- ciation for the establishment of a West Afr ican Economic Community. May 25. Decree No. 160 established an Auton- omous Stabilization and Price Support Fund for Export Products. May 25. Ordinance No. 12 introduced stabiliza- tion and support taxes on certain imports and exports. The amounts of these taxes were fixed by Arrete No. 389 of June 8. June 1. By v ir tue of Ordinance No. 22 of July 6, 1967, persons and companies in all EEC member states were placed on an equal footing as regards the right of establishment and the per- formance of services. July 1. Ordinance No. 17 of June 29, 1967 established the principle that financial relations with foreign countries were free. W i th minor exceptions, all existing legislation contrary to this principle was revoked, including Law No. 62-17 and Law No. 63-12. Previously, cur- rent and capital payments to all French Franc Area countries already were unrestricted; they were also free of control, as were inward trans- fers originating in French Franc Area countries. The ordinance also provided for the statistical registration of all inward and outward payments. Normally, the repatriation and surrender of claims, earnings, and proceeds accruing abroad would no longer be required. Import and export regulations were not affec ted, although certain exchange control formalities were abolished; these included the requirements that import licenses and impo rt certificates be domiciled with an authorized bank, and that exporters sign a foreign 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY exchange commitment in respect of all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. July 1. Decree No. 219 of June 29, 1967 established the principal rules for the application of Ordinance No. 17. The decree defined the concept of "foreign countries" and indicated the types of capital transactions with foreign countries that would be subject either to declaration or prior approval. It also provided that the import and export of gold, with certain exceptions, required prior approval by the Minister of Finance and that the import and export of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO were free, with the proviso that residents traveling to countries outside the West African Monetary Union must declare to the customs any amount in BCEAO notes carried if that amount exceeded CFAF 150,000. The import and the negotiation in Dahomey remained prohibited of banknotes and coins that were legal tender in Guinea, and corresponding prohibitions were applied to currency that was legal tender in Mali. The Minister of Finance would issue the necessary instructions for the operation of the payments agreements with foreign countries. •July 1. Decree No. 220 of June 29, 1967 created a Balance of Payments Committee charged with periodically compiling a national balance of payments. For this purpose, all banks and finan- cial institutions as well as the postal administra- tion were required to notify the BCEAO of all payments between Dahomey and foreign countries, all transactions in foreign currency, all transactions in CFA francs that affected financial relations with foreign countries, and all transactions in securities between residents and nonresidents. The BCEAO was authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the postal administration, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. July 1. Ordinance No. 18 of June 29, 1967 abolished the 0.5 per cent exchange tax on pay- ments to countries outside the French Franc Area. It also increased the customs stamp tax from 3 per cent to 4 per cent. July 1. The Exchange Office was abolished. July 1. Arrete No. 461 of June 30, 1967 formally abolished the exchange control pro- cedures, formalities, and obligations in respect of imports and exports. No formality of any kind was normally required for liberalized imports and exports, while all other imports and exports were subject to license; importers were no longer required to complete an import certificate for liberalized commodities. Certain imports and exports could be subjected to a prior declaration, which was to be visaed either by the Directorate- General of Economic A f fa i rs or by the competent ministry. Import and export licenses would be issued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs. Holders of an exporter's card could be granted licenses for imports still subject to license and related to their export activity, for up to 10 per cent of their exports made at the time of issu- ance of the card. Nothing was changed in the regimes applicable to trade with countries that had been accorded privileged treatment. July 1. New import and export procedures went into effect in accordance with a Notice to Import- ers of June 30, 1967. October 2. Arrete No. 37 created an office for the import and export of precious metals and precious mineral materials. Until fu r ther notice, the export duty on diamonds was fixed at 2.5 per cent of the real value of each export shipment. Two more such offices were established on Octo- ber 21 and 24 by Arretes Nos. 43 and 44. 124 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK J Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Danish Krone or DKr 7.50000 = US$1. The offi- cial limits for the U.S. dollar are DKr 7.44375 buying, and DKr 7.55625 selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to intervene; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Mar- ket rates are quoted daily for the 16 currencies that are used most o f ten .2 Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage with one another and with their foreign correspondents in converti- ble and ex terna l ly convertible currencies, inc lud ing Danish kroner, both spot and forward for up to 12 months. Forward prem iums and discounts are le ft to the interplay of ma rket forces. Forward transactions w i th residents must have a commer- cial basis. Pu rsuant to UN Security Council Resolution No. 232, restrictions for security reasons are applied to certain paymen ts and t rans fe rs to, or for the benef it of, Rhodesia. Denmark accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Den- ma rk, Green land, and the Faroe Islands. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Na t ional Bank of Denmark, which is the cen t ral exchange control au thor i ty. However, administra- tive powers for most paymen ts and transfers are delegated to the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., banks and the stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. Permission, when required, for foreign direct investments in Denmark has to be obtained f rom the Ministry of Commerce. Licenses for imports 1 In v iew of c e r t a in changes t h at took place in 1968, t h is su rvey presen ts the s i tu a t ion as at Ap r il 1, 1968. 2 These a re A u s t r i an sch i l l ing s, Be lg ian ( L u x em b o u r g) f ranc s, Canad ian do l la r s, deu tsche ma rk, F inn i sh m a rk- kas, F r en ch f r an c s, I c e l and ic k r o n u r, I t a l i an l i r e, N e t h e r- l ands g u i l d e r s, No rweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds s t e r l i n g, Span ish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss f r an c s, and U.S. do l l a r s. and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Agricul- ture, or the M in is try of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts to or from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Danish kroner. The only exception to this rule is that paymen ts to or from Eastern Germany must be settled through inconvertible krone accounts. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident krone accounts are convertible. The only exceptions are Capital Accounts and Foreign Accounts, which play only an insignificant part in settlements with foreign countries, and East German accounts. Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign banks, insurance companies, and shipping lines. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, if it is agreed with the account holder that amounts in excess of DKr 75,000 are to be transferred abroad automatically at the end of each quar ter; this l im i ta t ion is not applicable to persons who are or have been of Danish na t iona l i ty. Capital Accounts are kept for nonresidents by authorized exchange dealers for holding capital, income f rom capital, pensions, and other funds owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants. W i th in the first year af ter emigration, transfers abroad may be made up to DKr 40,000 a person, while certain paymen ts to residents may be made free ly from these accounts. One year af ter emigration the balances are made convertible. Foreign Accounts are nonresident accounts w i th savings banks, small cooperative banks, and the Public Trustee's Office. These accounts are kept ma in ly by private persons and for private pur- poses. The rules governing such accounts follow broadly the same principles as those established for convertible Krone Accounts, except that trans- fers abroad may be made only through an au thor- ized exchange dealer. Imports and Import Payments The import of v ir tua l ly all commodities of Rho- desian origin is prohibited. All goods not on a 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK restricted list containing mainly nonindustrial goods may be imported w i thout license from the 'Tree List Area." "• For imports from the "Free List Area" of commodities on the restricted list, licenses are issued on the basis of global (regional) quotas and may be used for any country in the "Free List Area." 4 Imports from countries out- side the "Free List Area" require licenses; these are generally granted in accordance with bilateral trade agreements and traditional trade relations, and apply to the specific country concerned. Licenses are issued freely for a large number of commodities when these are imported f rom, and originate in, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Ruman ia. Imports of bread grain, feedgrain, and grain products are subject to equalization charges representing the difference between speci- fied m in imum import prices and the lowest prices payable for grain c.i.f. Danish ports. The transfer of funds to, or for the benefit of, Rhodesia for certain purposes (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) is prohibited. With this exception, paymen ts for imports and the related shipping expenses may be made free ly w i th in two years f rom the end of the month in which the goods were cleared through customs, or w i th in five years for imports of ships, aircraft, large machines, and ma jor plants. The authorized exchange dealer may make payment before clear- ance of the goods, provided that the probable date of clearance lies within a year f rom the date of paymen t. Payments for Invisibles The National Bank has delegated to authorized exchange dealers the authority to permit payments for most invisibles to be made f ree ly; only in a few cases is approval f rom the Bank required. Transfers of up to DKr 2,000 for any permitted purpose may be made w i thout delivery of forms. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated liberally and may be obtained for travel to any country. Foreign exchange in banknotes and coins may be 3 The f o l l ow i ng countries are not inc luded in the "Free List Area"; A lban ia, B raz i l, Bu lga r ia, M a in l and Ch ina, R e p u b l ic of Ch ina, Co lomb ia, Czechos lovak ia, Eastern G e rm a n y, H u n g a r y, J a p a n, No r th Korea, R e p u b l ic of Korea, Mongo l ian People's Repub l ic, Po land, Rhodes ia, R u m a n i a, Sy r ian A rab R e p u b l i c, U.S.S.R., U n i t ed A r ab R e p u b l i c, and No r th V ie t -Nam. 4 O n ly w in e, oysters, and cut f lowe rs are impor ted u n d er licenses w h i ch a p p ly to a specific c o u n t r y. 126 purchased from agencies or individuals other than the authorized exchange dealers, provided that the amount does not exceed DKr 2,000 for each transaction. Travelers may take out freely DKr 2,000 in Danish banknotes and coins, and any amount in foreign banknotes or other means of payment. The DKr 2,000 limit may be exceeded by nonresidents, who may export any amount of Danish banknotes and coins derived from sales of foreign currency in Denmark or brought in by them when they entered Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia require licenses, and for many commodities no licenses are issued. Exports to any country of major agricultural and fishery products require export licenses issued by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Min- istry of Fisheries. Exports of a few industrial prod- ucts to the "Free List Area" and of all products to other countries require licenses issued by the Min- istry of Commerce, the primary purposes of the regulations being to safeguard the fu lf i l lment of bilateral obligations, to avoid excessive credits to importing countries, and to serve strategic purposes. Export proceeds must be transferred to Den- mark without undue delay unless the National Bank permits otherwise. However, this obligation does not apply to amounts which are to be used w i th in three months to settle or to offset the cost of certain commercial expenses. Foreign exchange receipts must be offered for sale to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, except that an individual resident may hold foreign banknotes and coins not exceed- ing DKr 2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the National Bank permits otherwise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, with exceptions similar to those that apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Travelers may bring in any amount in Danish banknotes and coins, foreign banknotes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. Capital Residents have an obligation to repatriate pro- ceeds realized from the sale or liquidation of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, to redeem, or to repur- chase the transferor's own securities, to lend amounts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a calendar year to subsidiary companies, etc., or to a member of the resident's fam i ly, and to buy foreign securi- ties that do not represent direct investments in foreign commercial or industrial enterprises, pro- vided that the securities are acquired on the basis of a subscription right to shares or the like owned by the resident concerned or provided that the resident furnishes proof that he has repatriated a corresponding amount within the last 12 months from the sale of foreign securities to a nonresident. Permission from the National Bank is required for most other transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents. Direct investments abroad by resi- dents are normally approved, but portfolio invest- ment abroad is generally not allowed. Loans and credits involving nonresidents and made in con- nection with commercial transactions are normally permitted, subject to certain limitations. Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 for each person during the first year af ter emigration. Funds exceeding this amount must be credited to a Capi- tal Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year after emigration. Direct investment in Denmark by nonresidents may be made without any special license if the transaction concerns industry, commerce, handi- crafts, hotel business, or transportation, and if the investment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise concerned by more than DKr 40,000 in each calendar year. Other direct investment by nonresidents requires permis- sion from the Ministry of Commerce, which is granted liberally in accordance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The purchase by a nonresident of real property in Denmark usually requires a special license from the Ministry of Justice. A nonresident who is or DENMARK has been a Danish national may freely purchase or subscribe to securities expressed solely in Dan- ish kroner which do not represent direct invest- ment. Other nonresidents may purchase or sub- scribe to bonds that are quoted daily and are expressed solely in Danish kroner, when the funds have been obtained from the liquidation of invest- ments in Denmark. They may purchase or sub- scribe to shares that are quoted daily, are expressed solely in Danish kroner, and do not represent direct investment, when the funds have been obtained from the liquidation of Danish shares, or when the acquisition is made on the basis of subscription rights to shares. Nonresidents may grant credits within certain limits to residents to finance purchases of commodities abroad and to finance the granting of credits for exports. They may, fu r the r, grant loans up to DKr 200,000 per borrower in a calendar year to commercial and industrial enterprises connected with the lender as subsidiary companies, branches, etc., or to mem- bers of their families. Municipalities and public utility companies may as a rule issue debenture loans abroad without spe- cial permission of the National Bank, but their foreign borrowing is subject to control by the competent executive department of the Government. Transfers of proceeds f rom the sale or liquida- tion of all types of investments and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by non- residents other than newly emigrated Danish nationals are permitted freely, irrespective of when and how the original investment was acquired. Interest and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received f rom persons and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid freely. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may nor- mally be transferred to any country w i thout limi- tation. Individual payments above DKr 2,000 as gifts to persons other than relatives require approval from the National Bank. Such approval is normally given for bona fide gifts. Imports and exports of securities are subject to regulations, the details of which are established by the National Bank or, when exports of specified multiple currency Danish bonds are concerned, by the Ministry of the Interior. Bona fide imports of 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are permitted. Exports of Danish and foreign securities owned by nonresidents are normally permitted also. Danish securities held in Den- mark and belonging to nonresidents may be sold freely to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may be sold to residents only with the permission of the National Bank. Foreign securities held in Den- mark may be negotiated freely between residents, provided that the exchange control regulations concerning emigrants are not circumvented. Gold Residents may free ly buy, hold, and sell gold coins in Denmark. Residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to acquire gold abroad. Imports and exports of gold normally require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Imports of gold in bars or coins, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are subject to turnover tax but not to customs duty. Changes during 1967 January 1. The import of a number of addi- tional commodities was liberalized, provided that they originated in the "Free List Area"; these commodities included the last industrial goods that were subject to restriction when imported f rom that area. January 1. The global import quotas for the first half of 1967 went into effect. June 13. Royal Decree No. 195 of May 31, 1967, came into effect; it implemented UN Security Council Resolution 232 of December 16, 1966, which imposed mandatory economic sanc- tions on Rhodesia. The Decree prohibited the importation into or transport to Denmark of the following commodities originating in Rhodesia and exported therefrom af ter December 16, 1966: asbestos, iron ore, chromium, pig iron, sugar, tobacco, copper, meat and meat products, and hides, skins, and leather. The sale, transportation, or supply to Rhodesia of arms and ammunition, aircraft, motor vehicles, petroleum and petroleum products, and equipment and materials for the manufac ture, assembly, or maintenance of any such goods were also prohibited, as were the manu fac tu re or assembly in Rhodesia of a ircraft or motor vehicles. Payments to or from Rhodesia in connection with the activities listed also were pro- hibited. Henceforth, all transit dealings involving the commodities or activities listed had to be sub- mitted to the National Bank for decision. July 1. Danish notes and coins became legal tender in Greenland; Greenland currency would gradually be withdrawn f rom circulation. The exchange control regulations in effect in conti- nental Denmark were also applied in Greenland. The Danish exchange control definition of "resi- dents" was amended to include residents of Green- land other than certain foreign nationals, firms, or juridical persons in Greenland. July 1. The global import quotas for the sec- ond half of 1967 went into effect. July 1. Paraguay was included for import con- trol purposes in the "Free List Area." November 21. The par value of the Danish krone was changed from DKr 6.90714 = US$1 to DKr 7.50000 = US$1. NOTE. —The following changes took place in 1968: March 27. The bilateral payments agreements with Brazil and Colombia were terminated with effect from April 1, 1968. 128 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Dominican Peso or RD$1.00 = US$1. Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars between the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic and other banks take place at the par value, plus a commission of ^o of 1 per cent. Exchange trans- actions by commercial banks with the public also take place at the par value, subject to normal bank ing commissions which result in effective rates w i th in 1 per cent on either side of the par value. With the exception of payments for imports made with the importer's own foreign exchange, all pay- ments abroad must be made through banks, and all exchange received must be sold to banks. The commercial banks are required to transfer to the Central Bank all exchange purchased. On August 1, 1953, the Dominican Republic notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange and trade control policy is made by the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange control is administered by the Central Bank. Its Foreign Exchange Department establishes import quotas, which it allocates to customary importers of the commodities concerned. Prescription of Currency No obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents in respect of the method to be followed or the currency to be used for paymen ts to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of 40 categories of goods, including automobiles with an f.o.b. value in excess of RD$2,000, are temporarily prohibited. Imports of many other commodities are restricted by quotas. Specified commodities are exempt f rom quota when they are financed w i th the importer's own exchange; such imports are also exempt f rom advance deposits. Licensing controls are ma in- tained over a few other commodities for reasons of hea l th or security. All paymen ts for imports require the approval of the Central Bank, except those made with the importer's own exchange. Payments for many imports are settled on a d ra ft for collection basis; when the d ra ft is pre- sented for collection, the importer pays the full amount in pesos to the commercial bank; the bank then transfers this deposit to the Central Bank which releases exchange for the remittance, some- times af ter a certain delay. Other imports are paid for by letter of credit or a direct transfer of exchange. Except in respect of direct transfers, the commercial banks transmit daily to the Central Bank copies of importers' applications for exchange accompanied by the equivalent in local currency. The Central Bank authorizes the com- mercial banks to open letters of credit and, when these have been negotiated, it transfers foreign exchange to the banks; all letters of credit except those covering industrial machinery and raw mate- rials imported against acceptance letters of credit with a ma tur i ty of 90 days or more must be paid in fu ll by the importer upon the opening of the credit. When imports are paid for by direct trans- fer, the Central Bank makes exchange available upon receiving the request from the commercial bank, and charges the latter's account for the peso equivalent of the amount involved. In principle, exchange for import payments is made available w i th in not more than five working days from the receipt of the application, but since the middle of May 1966 there have been delays in the provision of exchange. Importers of certain commodities are required to make payment by means of fu l ly pre- paid letters of credit. Imports in this group include automobiles, motorcycles, household appliances, finished textiles and clothing, and many consumer luxu ry goods. Importers of most of these com- modities are also required to prepay 80 per cent of the estimated value of customs duties and sur- charges on the goods prior to the opening of the letter of credit. Virtually all imports are subject to customs sur- charges (impuestos internos) ranging from 20 per cent to 200 per cent of the f.o.b. value; for most imports, however, they are 51.5 per cent. Imports of automobiles are subject to a fu r th er surcharge of RD$700 per un i t. Imports of agricultural and indus tr ial machinery and equipment and spare 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC parts are subject to a single import tax (including customs du t ies) of 5 per cent. Certain foods tu f fs are exempt from import taxes and others are relieved under special arrangements in times of seasonal shortage. Advance import deposits of 20 per cent or 40 per cent of the f.o.b. value are required for many imports, unless the goods are paid for with the importer's own foreign exchange. The advance deposits are collected by the Customs Administra- tion prior to the clearance of the goods, and are lodged in the Central Bank for a period of three months. A number of goods are exempt, including certain foods tuffs, medical supplies, industrial and agricultural machinery and spare parts, commer- cial vehicles, industrial raw materials and packing materials, and petroleum products. Payments for Invisibles The allocation of foreign exchange for tourist travel is suspended. For business travel, the Cen- tral Bank may approve applications on an indi- vidual basis. Airline tickets are subject to a tax of 10 per cent. All payments for other invisibles require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is only given after careful examination of the application and if the transaction is considered genuine and essential. Applications for exchange for contractual pay- ments, such as interest and amortization payments on loans registered w i th the Central Bank, are approved in con fo rm i ty with the terms of the con- tract. Transfers of prof i ts and dividends on foreign investments are approved on presentation of a bal- ance sheet which has been agreed with the tax authorities. In some cases the t rans fer may be effected in mon th ly installments. In principle, exchange for payments for invisi- bles is made available w i th in five days f rom receipt of the application, but there have been delays. Travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of the travel allocation they have obtained. Travelers are not permitted to take with them any domestic currency. Within 48 hours of receiving payment, exporters of Dominican products must surrender through the commercial banks to the Central Bank foreign exchange equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value of their exports. Exporters may not extend credit for more than 90 days f rom the date of embarka- tion w i thout authorization by the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles are subject to surrender requirements and must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the com- mercial banks. The import of Dominican bank- notes and coins is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward move- ment of capital by either residents or nonresidents. Inward capital remittances must be registered with the Central Bank and must be converted into pesos at that Bank. Applications for approval of outward capital remittances must be submitted through the commercial banks to the Central Bank. Withdrawals of capital by foreigners leav- ing the Dominican Republic are authorized in reasonable amounts, sometimes with provision for the transfer to be effected in annual installments. Applications by residents to transfer capital abroad to make portfolio investments, purchase real estate, etc., are not normally approved. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in the Domini- can Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for sugar, in con- nection with the operation of export quotas estab- lished under the In terna t ional Sugar Agreement. Changes during 1967 March 9. A number of consumer goods were added to the list of imports requiring financing under letter of credit. 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 22. Certain specialty foods were made subject to a 10 or 15 per cent ad valorem import tax. Furthermore, a deposit of 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value of such imports was to be lodged with the Central Bank for a period of six months, at the time of customs clearance. May 11. Imports of raw material for industrial use and of capital equipment could be financed with letters of credit without depositing the equiva- lent amount in domestic currency with the Central Bank. May 23. Government institutions were obliged to pay import duties, unless the goods were to be utilized in developing the industrial, educational, agricultural, or scientific sectors of the economy. June 23. The Central Bank was authorized to fix m in imum export prices. July 10. Decree No. 1476, Decree No. 1482, and two Notices of the Monetary Board to Import- ers introduced the following measures. The importation of a number of goods, including auto- mobiles valued at over US$2,000 f.o.b., was pro- hibited un t il the end of the year. Import quotas were established for a large number of goods, including household articles, consumer durable goods, cosmetics, and alcoholic beverages. The quotas allocated to each importer were 25 per cent of the value of goods he imported within the past 12 months. Imports financed with importers' own exchange were exempted f rom the import quotas but not from the import prohibitions. Addi- tional imports had to be financed with letters of credit. The allocation of foreign exchange for tourist travel abroad (previously US$100 a person every 12 months) was suspended. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC July 11. Advance import deposits were reduced to 50 per cent of previous levels, and the period during which they were blocked was reduced from six months to three months. July 21. The Monetary Board was authorized to make certain imports financed with importers' own exchange subject to the existing quota restric- tions. August 30. By Decree No. 1613, specified imports financed with importers' own exchange were exempted from import restrictions and advance deposit requirements. In November, this decree was extended to certain other import com- modities. September 13. The Central Bank was author- ized to fix max imum import and m in imum export prices. Commercial exporters were required to register with the customs authorities. November 8. Imports of chemical and pharma- ceutical products were subject to a tax of 10 per cent. November 13. Wharfage on imports had to be paid in U.S. dollars. December 26. A resolution of the Monetary Board extended until June 30, 1968 the existing import prohibitions and import restrictions. Import quotas, however, were increased. The Central Bank would assign to the customary importers of goods subject to quotas a quota equivalent to 75 per cent of the imports of the commodity concerned during the 12-month period used as a basis for the calculation of the quotas assigned during the second half of 1967. For the first 6 months of 1968, one half of each quota could be utilized, but only in equal parts in the first two quarters. 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0493706 gram of fine gold per Ecuadoran Sucre or S/ 18.00 = US$1. The official rates are S/ 17.82 buying, and S/ 18.18 selling, per US$1. These rates apply to all exports, to paymen ts for most imports and related invisibles, to official transactions, to other essen- tial invisibles, to registered capital, and to all con- tractual registered private foreign debt operations entered into af ter July 14, 1961. Exports of rice are subsidized. For all other transactions there is a free marke t, in which the rates on December 29, 1967 were S/19.96 buying, and S/20.02 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control The Monetary Board classifies transactions according to the exchange market through which they must be settled. Most transactions pass through the official market, which is under the control and supervision of the Central Bank of Ecuador. The Central Bank also issues import and export licenses. Exports of coffee to "new markets," however, require in addition the prior authorization of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Transactions that do not qua l i fy for the official market may enter the free market — conducted ma in ly by exchange houses and several commercial banks —where such transactions are free of supervision by the exchange control authorities. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, and Poland must take place through bilateral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and Colom- bia and Peru may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Ecuador and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Exchange proceeds from other countries must be received in convertible cur- rencies. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two cate- gories: List I, consisting of essential and semies- sential goods, and List II, consisting of less essen- 132 tial and luxury goods. All goods not included in these two lists are prohibited, except books, news- papers, periodicals, and printed or recorded music, which may be imported freely without a license. Prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports exceeding a value of US$100. A few goods may only be imported from LAFTA coun- tries, and some only from Paraguay; with these exceptions, import licenses are issued freely irre- spective of the origin of the goods, provided that the appropriate advance deposits, monetary stabi- lization surcharges, and additional import taxes have been paid and that the required prepayments of import duties have been made. The licenses automatically entitle the holders to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c.i.f. value of the imports upon presentation of the shipping documents; advance payments for imports and payments under letters of credit are prohibited. Imports for which licenses are not required are paid for with exchange pur- chased in the free market. For some goods, import licenses are issued which do not entitle the importer to foreign exchange at the official rate ("no exchange licenses," licencias sin divisas, or permisos de importation no reembolsables); the exchange for such imports must be obtained in the free market, or the goods must be financed abroad. The Monetary Board is authorized to shift items between Lists I and II and to prohibit the import of goods or l i ft import prohibitions when the economic situation of the country and the balance of payments situation so require. The advance deposit requirement applies to almost all private imports financed with official exchange. The exceptions are imports under the Ag r icu l tu ral Surplus Agreement with the United States, imports of certain goods to be used for the construction and equipment of hotels, all imports of List I commodities financed with foreign credit of more than a year, all imports from Paraguay, imports of capital goods financed by interna- tional organizations or by suppliers' credit for at least one year after arrival, imports of medi- cal supplies and equipment made by official health or social service institutions, and imports of mach inery, equipment, and materials needed for public works. The advance deposit must be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution made in sucres by the importer when applying for an import license; the importer must at the same t ime lodge with the Central Bank a prepayment of pa rt of the import du ty. The rates for the advance deposit required are curren t ly 35 per cent of the c .i .f. va lue for imports in List I (15 per cent for the same goods if covered by foreign credit of 180 days to one y e a r ), and 50 per cent, 70 per cent, 100 per cent, or 140 per cent for imports in List II. The 140 per cent requirement is reduced to 100 per cent for the same commod i t ies* when imported by public or semipublic agencies. The prescribed p repayment of import du ty is 10 per cent of the du ty on commodities in List I and 45 per cent of the du ty on those in List II. Advance deposits are released pan passu w i th the mak ing of the impo rt paymen ts. Most impor ts are also subject to mone ta ry s tab i l iza t ion surcharges and to add i t ional import taxes. The surcharge is 10 per cent of the c . i .f. va lue for List I i tems and 20 per cent for List II items. Surcharges must normally be paid in sucres to the Cen t ral Bank when application is made for an impo rt license. Surcharges on List I items financed w i th suppliers' credit of a year or more a f t er a r r ival of the goods may be paid when the final impo rt p a ym e nt is made. Exempt from sur- charges are diplomatic imports, imports financed by loans from foreign governments or interna- t ional organ iza t ions, imports by certain religious orders, and all imports or ig ina t ing in Paraguay. Most goods on List II are subject to an add i t ional import tax of 10 per cent or 15 per cent of the c . i . f. value, payab le in sucres; the others are exemp t. Exempt f rom this tax are diplomatic imports and impo r ts financed by foreign govern- men ts or in t e rn a t ion al organ iza t ions. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for transac t ions in invisibles that may be made through the off ic ial ma rket require an exchange license from the Central Bank; the license is granted freely for all authorized trans- actions. These t ransac t ions inc lude certain invisi- bles connected w i th trade (e.g., i n s u r a n c e1); 1 Acco rd ing to Decree No. 1320 of October 2 1, 1966, f r e i g ht on im p o r ts and e x p o r ts mu st be covered w i th in su rance companies established in Ecuador. This pro- v i s ion is not yet in force, p e n d i ng the issuance by the S u p e r i n t e n d e nt of B a n ks of r e g u l a t i o ns for i ts im p l em e n- t a t i o n. ECUADOR necessary expenses (i.e., travel, tu i t ion, and l iv ing expenses up to US$100 a mon th) of Ecuadoran students abroad who are registered with the Cen- tral B ank; most paymen ts of the Government and of off ic ial en t i t ies; payment of interest on regis- tered foreign loans up to 7.5 per cent annu a l ly; or paymen ts of profits and dividends on registered private foreign investments up to 12 per cent annu a l ly; and con trac tual private foreign debt operations entered into and registered af ter Ju ly 14, 1961. Other paymen ts for invisibles may be made freely through the free ma rke t. Residents t rave l ing abroad must pay a tax of S/ 400 for each ex it visa, s ta r t ing f rom the second visa in the ir passports. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except those of m in ing companies w i th government contracts require licenses to ensure, among other th ings, the fu ll surrender of the exchange proceeds; licenses are issued freely. M in imum surrender prices (aforos) are estab- lished for exports of bananas (according to port of sh ipmen t, destination, and season ); they d i f fer for b an an as shipped on the stem and those shipped in boxes. Exchange corresponding to those prices must be surrendered at the official rate, while any excess receipts may be sold in the free mar- ket. Exports of bananas are subject to m in imum export prices expressed in sucres. Exports of coffee, cacao, bananas shipped on the stem, sugar, and gold and silver filigree work are subject to export taxes of 9.4 per cent (washed, or 9.6 per cent u nw a s h e d ), 10 per cent, 21.4 per cent, 3.4 per cent, and 10 per cent, respectively.- Export taxes are also levied on certain livestock and on fresh or frozen seafood. Exports of bananas in boxes are subject to a specific export du ty expressed in sucres per pound (d i f fe ren t ia ted according to des t ina t ion and province of o r i g i n ). All exports of b an an as are subject to certain addi- tional specific taxes. Exports of coffee to "new markets" are exempt f rom export tax and all other taxes levied on exports. Exports of rice by the Na t ional Development Bank receive a subsidy - The 2 1 .4 per cent e x p o rt tax on b an an as is lev ied on an assumed f.o.b. va lue expressed in sucres per pound t h at for b a n a n as in boxes var ies w i th p rov ince of o r ig in, po rt of sh ipm en t, des t ina t ion, and season. The official ave rage w e i g ht per stem is 66.38 pounds for expo r ts to the U n i t ed S ta tes and 56.48 pounds for expo r ts to o t h er c o u n t r i e s. 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR equal to the difference between its cost to the National Development Bank and the f.o.b. price, up to a maximum of S/ 3.18 per U.S. dollar; the export proceeds, however, are surrendered at the official rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles related to trade and all receipts of the Government and of official entities have to be sold at the official rate. Other receipts from invisibles (including those from tour ism) may be sold in the free market. Capital Receipts of private foreign capital must be sur- rendered to the Central Bank at the official buy ing rate if registration with the Central Bank is desired. This also applies to foreign exchange sold by foreign companies for the purpose of obtaining local currency for salaries, taxes, and other local expenses. Foreign capital entering in the fo rm of machinery and equipment may also be registered with the Central Bank. The Central Bank can refuse to register foreign capital if the investment is not considered to be in the interest of the Ecuadoran economy at that par t icu lar time. All unregistered private capital may enter w i thout limitation through the free market. An Industrial Promotion Law provides for certain exemptions from import duties and import charges to three categories of indus tr ial investment. Foreign exchange at the official rate may be obtained for the w i thd rawal of registered foreign inves tment f rom Ecuador five years af ter the date of registration. Exchange at the official rate is also granted for prof it remittances up to 12 per cent a year on registered capital, and for interest up to 7.5 per cent on registered foreign loans. Contractual repaymen ts of registered foreign loans may also be made at the official rate. All other capital remittances, either by residents or nonresidents, may be made through the free ma rke t. Capital receipts of the Gove rnment and of offi- cial entities are converted at the official buying rate, and paymen ts at the official selling rate. However, the proceeds from certain loans granted to the Government and official entities by foreign financing organizations are converted by the Cen- tral Bank at the official selling rate of S/ 18.18, 134 instead of at the official buying rate of S/ 17.82, per US$1. In such instances, the Central Bank receives from the Government or the borrower a payment of S/ 0.072 per US$1 as reimbursement for the Central Bank's share of the spread between the official buying and selling rates. Commercial banks are permitted to hold up to 10 per cent of their capital in foreign exchange. Gold Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in Ecuador. They may export gold only in the form of filigree work whose gold content is not more than 25 per cent of its intrinsic value. Imports of gold are free, subject to the regular requ iremen ts for imports. Changes during 1967 January 11. Monetary Board Resolution No. 487 amended Resolution No. 458 by provid- ing that the refund of the 140 per cent advance deposit on List II commodities would be made in proportion to the exchange payments authorized by the Central Bank. January 26. Monetary Board Resolution No. 489 exempted f rom advance import deposits commodities sent by foreign governments and agencies as gifts or donations to various types of institutions. February 15. Monetary Board Resolution No. 491 reduced from 50 per cent to 35 per cent the advance import deposit required on List I goods ( f rom 25 per cent to 15 per cent when imports of List I goods were financed with foreign sup- pliers' credits of between 180 days and one y e a r ). For certain commodities in List II, the advance import deposit requirement was reduced from 140 to 100 per cent or from 70 to 50 per cent. February 16. Monetary Board Resolution No. 492 exempted from advance deposit requirements imports of machinery and equipment that were needed for the execution of public works. April 14. Monetary Board Resolution No. 494 exempted from advance deposit requirements materials that were needed for the execution of public works. April 77. A Government Resolution exempted certain religious missions from the 10 per cent or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 per cent monetary stabilization surcharge on imports. April 20. A bilateral paymen ts agreement was signed with Hungary. May 16. Monetary Board Resolution No. 496 reduced the advance import deposit requirement for l iqu if ied gas carriers from 140 per cent to 50 per cent, and that for calculating machines and electronic computers f rom 140 per cent to 100 per cent. May 30. Decree No. 480 incorporated in Ecuador's National List the tar iff concessions agreed at the fifth and sixth conferences of the contracting parties to the Treaty of Montevideo. June 2. Decree No. 055 exempted from all taxes exports of coffee to "new markets," pro- vided that exporters met their quotas for exports to countries subject to quota. June 15. Monetary Board Resolution No. 498 reduced the advance deposit requirement f rom 140 per cent to 100 per cent for imports of cer- ta in List II commodities when made by public or semipublic agencies. June 15. Monetary Board Resolution No. 499 added to List II certain commodities when origi- na t ing in and shipped from LAFTA countries. These were items whose importation temporarily ECUADOR was prohibited on April 21, 1966, when Regula- tion No. 463 of the Monetary Board deleted them f rom List II. June 16. Monetary Board Resolution No. 500 prescribed the prior authorization of the Ministry of Indus try and Commerce for all coffee exports to "new markets." June 16. Monetary Board Resolution No. 501 authorized the Central Bank to retain US$47.322 per 60-kilogram bag of coffee shipped to destina- tions other than "new markets" dur ing the last quar ter of the current coffee year. June 30. Decree No. 113 terminated the tax exemptions for imports of goods on List II, except pharmaceutical products and medical instruments. August 1. The Directorate-General for Bananas was granted exemption from the 10 and 20 per cent monetary stabilization surcharges. August 24. Decree No. 3264 of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce put into force a revision of the Industrial Development Law. October 6. A bilateral payments agreement was signed with Bulgaria; it did not enter into force du r ing 1967. October 10. A bilateral payments agreement was signed with Ruman ia; it did not enter into force dur ing 1967. 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per Salvadoran Colon or 0 2.50 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank for transactions with the public are 0 2.49 buying, and 0 2.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at or w i th in these limits and are subject to a tax of % of 1 per cent. A stamp tax of ylQ of 1 per cent is applicable to all sales of exchange as well as d ra f ts and other documents embodying a right to exchange; on amoun ts below 0 100,000 the tax is levied at fixed amounts that may be slightly in excess of ^o of 1 per cent. There is also a bank ing commission of 0 0.50 on transactions not exceeding the equiv- alent of US$25 and involving U.S. dollars or Mexican pesos. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador through its Exchange Control Department. Authority to approve certain paymen ts is delegated to the com- mercial banks. Exchange licenses for imports are issued by the Exchange Control Depa r tmen t. The Central Reserve Bank is also empowered to license exports, but this power has not been exercised. Expo r ts of a numb er of commodities require li- censes issued by the M in is try of Economy or of Agr icu l ture. Expor ts of coffee are supervised by the Salvadoran Coffee Company and require li- censes issued by the M in is t ry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts to Costa Rica, Gua tema la, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and specified invisibles are settled in the currencies of those countries or in Salvadoran colones through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic in teg ra t ion of the ir countries. Paymen ts to Mexico are also settled through the clearinghouse. Other- 136 wise, residents are f ree to make authorized pay- ments in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of nonresidents may be utilized free ly, but the commercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements on such accounts. Accredited dip- lomatic missions and other foreign institutions or persons established in El Salvador may be author- ized to hold nonresident accounts in U.S. dollars with authorized banks, provided that such accounts are credited with foreign exchange received f rom abroad. The max imum balance which may be held on these accounts is fixed by the Exchange Control Department. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom all countries except those of the Central American Common Market must be regis- tered w i th the Central Reserve Bank before orders are placed. Import licenses are required for air- planes, firearms, ammun i t ion, military equipment, dynam i te, liquors, cotton for industrial use, ju te sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and pharma- ceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharine. Paymen ts and t rans fe rs abroad require exchange licenses, which are granted freely, pro- vided that (unless the goods are imported f rom other countries of the Central American Common M a rk e t) the terms of payment do not exceed certain m ax im a: ( 1) Imports of machinery or equipment for use in agriculture, stock raising, or indus t ry and impor ts of fertilizers, insecticides, greases, lubricants, and spare parts for vehicles and for mach inery are authorized by the Exchange Control Depa r tment when the terms of payment do not exceed 360 days f rom the date of en try of the merchandise into a customs warehouse. (2) Imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for use in agriculture, stock raising, or indus try must be paid for w i th in 270 days. ( 3) Imports of essential food products, of medicine, medical and surgical supplies, text books, and reference books mu st be paid for w i th in 180 days. (4) Imports of all other commodities (except listed goods that are subject to a 100 per cent advance deposit) are authorized by the Exchange Control Depar tmen t, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution provided that the terms of p aym ent do not exceed 60 days. The Depar tment has au thor i ty to permit te rms of payment in excess of 360 days for those impor ts of mach ine ry and equipment (except veh ic les) that are ordered direct by the users and are not intended for resale or inven tory. For specified goods ( inc lud ing luxu ry foods, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, pe r fumes and cos- metics, jewe l ry, watches, and all types of automo- biles and buses, except jeeps and other vehicles w i th four-wheel d r i v e ), the Exchange Control Depa r tment does not perm it impor ters to place orders abroad unless evidence is subm i t ted that an advance deposit in colones equivalent to 100 per cent of the va lue has been lodged w i th the Central Reserve Bank, or, at the option of the importer, t h at an irrevocable le t ter of credit will be estab- lished on wh ich a 100 per cent ma rg in deposit is made. Imports of the same goods f rom other coun t r ies of the Cen t ral Ame r ican Common Mar- ket are exempt f r om these requ i remen t s. Diplo- ma t ic impo r ts are exempt f rom the 100 per cent advance deposit in colones, provided that p a ym e nt is made through a nonresident account. The commercial banks are authorized to pro- vide exchange for impo rt paymen ts not exceeding US$6,000 for impor ts f rom Cen tral American coun tr ies and US$2,000 for impor ts f rom all other countries; larger amoun ts have to be approved by the Central Reserve Bank. When suppliers abroad reque st p aym ent in advance for commodities va lued at over US$200, a prior deposit calculated on the va lue of the advance p aym ent is requ i red f rom the impor ter as a gua ran tee. The guaran tee deposit var ies accord ing to the na tu re of the goods; it is 25 per cent on the i tems subject to the various m a x im um payment terms. For the goods th at are subject to a 100 per cent advance deposit, the advance deposit serves at the same time as a guar- antee deposit. These regu la t ions are also applicable to goods impor ted f rom other countries of the Central Amer ican Common Marke t. Advance deposits and gua ran tee deposits are re funded when the goods arrive in the coun t ry, provided th at p aym ent in f u ll has been made to the exporter. Payments for Invisibles P aym en ts for cu r r ent inv is ib les requ i re exchange licenses, wh ich are gran ted f r e e ly for most items, EL SALVADOR a l though for cer ta in paymen ts only up to specified l im i ts. Net profits may generally be remitted up to a l im it of 10 per cent a year of the registered cap i ta l; h igher t ran s fe rs requ ire the authorization of the M in is try of Economy. Permission to pur- chase exchange for travel outside the Central Amer ican area (interpreted to mean the Central Ame r ican Common Ma rke t) is granted by the Exchange Control Department up to the equivalent of US$2,000 a person a trip, on the basis of US$50 a person a day; for amoun ts in excess of US$800 a person a trip, a 20 per cent deposit in local cur- rency must be lodged w i th the Central Reserve Bank. The Depar tment also generally authorizes t ran s fe rs of up to US$300 a month to each Salva- doran w i th pe rmanent residence abroad; larger amoun ts may be authorized when the need there- for is shown. Students are allowed US$200 a m o n t h; those w i th fam i l ies are allowed US$250 a mon th p lus US$50 for each child. Foreign exchange in excess of the l im i ts given above is seldom g ran ted. For na t iona ls t rave l ing to Central American coun tr ies, the comme rc ial banks have been dele- gated au tho r i ty to provide exchange as follows: for travel to Costa Rica, Honduras, and N icaragua, the e q u i v a l e nt of 0 500 a tr ip in Costa Rican colones, lemp iras, or cordobas; for travel to Gua tema la, Gua tema lan currency notes up to Q 1,000 a trip, or a cashiers check in Salvadoran colones up to the equ iva lent of $ 2,500 a tr ip ( for p aym ent in Gua tema la through the Camara de Compensation C en t ro am e r i c an a ). Requests for larger am o u n ts must be submitted to the Central Reserve Bank. Insu rance and re in su rance p r em iums may be paid for in fore ign exchange, provided that the in su rance contract was registered w i th the Exchange Control Depar tment at the t ime it took effec t. A l te rna t ive ly, insurance compan ies may receive p r em i ums in colones and periodically obtain f rom the Exchange Control Depar tment authorization to purchase the fo re ign currencies they are obliged to t ran s fer abroad. Foreign currencies derived f rom in su rance or re insurance contracts must be su r rende red to the Central Reserve Bank or to an au tho r ized commercial bank. The exchange control regulations do not l im it the expo r ta t ion of local currency by travelers. 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for a number of foods tu f fs and other items of which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local sup- ply, but the proceeds of all exports must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the foreign exchange must be surrendered to the Cen- tral Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Export transactions must be declared to the Exchange Control Department within 15 days of shipment. The collection terms normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be authorized by the Exchange Control Department. W i th the exception of sales to "new markets," exports of coffee are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. The exchange con- trol regulations do not l im it the importation of local cu r rency by trave lers. Capital All exchange receipts resulting f rom capital transac t ions mu st be surrendered. Payments abroad representing capital movements require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital except for investments in Costa Rica, Gua tema la, Honduras, and Nica- ragua. The en try of capital in the fo rm of foreign inves tment may be registered with the M in is try of Economy. Registration ensures ( 1) the remittance of net prof i ts up to a l im it of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital ( larger amoun ts may be authorized in special cases by the Ministry of Economy) and (2) amor t iza t ion paymen ts and repa tr ia t ion of the proceeds f rom the sale of the assets of the enterprise a f ter payment of taxes ( inc lud ing, whe re appropriate, capital gains t a x ); the repa tr ia t ion of registered foreign inves tmen ts is not limited to the amount of the originally registered inves tmen t. Foreign investments made in El Salvador prior to June 1, 1961 must also be registered by the M in is try of Economy or the Exchange Control Depar tment in order to enjoy the same fac i l i t ies. For long-term foreign loans, 138 the Exchange Control Depar tment authorizes, w i thout restriction, the remittance abroad of for- eign currency for the payment of interest and amortization. The same trea tment is granted to short-term foreign loans that have been approved by and registered with the Exchange Control Depar tmen t. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry requ ire licenses issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone ta ry authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1967 September 25. The utilization of foreign sup- pliers' credit was fu r th er restricted by a shortening of the permitted terms of payment for imports. A 100 per cent advance deposit or margin deposit was requ ired on specified luxu ry imports. The guaran tee deposits required for advance paymen ts for impo r ts were increased. The manda to ry 10 per cent or 25 per cent deposit on import letters of credit was abolished. September 25. The issuance of exchange licenses for imports became the sole responsibility of the Exchange Control Department of the Cen- tral Reserve Bank. October 16. The Central Reserve Bank revoked the au tho r i ty of the commercial banks to grant fore ign exchange for travel purposes and for speci- fied other invisibles, with the exception of the power to sell limited amounts of exchange for t ravel to other Central American countries. October 16. The basic allowance for transfers to Salvadorans with pe rmanent residence abroad was reduced f rom US$500 to US$300 a month. December 15. New regu la t ions governing ex- change allocations for travel outside the Central Amer ican area went in to effec t. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per Ethiopian Dollar or Eth$2.50 = US$1. The official rates are Eth$2.475 buying, and Eth$2.525 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized banks and author- ized dealers under the control of the National Bank of Ethiopia. All payments abroad and ex- ports are subject to the supervision of the Exchange Controller, whose office is a depar tment of the National Bank. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in for- eign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or in U.S. dollars or sterling. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency that is free ly convertible, or in any other foreign currency acceptable to the Exchange Controller. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold nonresident accounts either in Ethiopian dollars or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. Balances in these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers be- tween nonresident accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments No import licenses are required. However, pay- men ts abroad for imports require exchange licenses; these licenses are granted freely in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any convertible currency that may be requested. Goods ordered through a third country must be supported by evidence of original cost. Payment is normally authorized by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic t rans fe r, or cash against docu- men ts at sight or on an acceptance basis; for goods which were previously subject to advance deposit requirements, however, the usance must not exceed 90 days. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles connected with trade transac- tions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign nationals may remit up to 35 per cent of their salaries or annual tax- able income, provided that they have resided in Ethiopia for less than six years; this time limit does not apply to foreign nationals who are in con- tractual service with the Ethiopian Government or with an autonomous government organization and who have an employment contract specifically en t i t l ing them to remit a percentage of their earn- ings. Ineligible persons may apply for exchange to meet expenses for maintenance of bona fide dependents, education of children, medical care, and prem iums on insurance policies taken out before April 2, 1962. Subject to proper provision hav ing been made for local taxation, foreign com- panies may remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Persons traveling abroad are allowed foreign exchange equivalent to Eth$100 a day for a maxi- mum period of six weeks if the journey is made for business purposes, and up to the equivalent of Eth$ 1,050 a year for persons 16 years of age or over and Eth$735 a year for those under 16, if the jou rney is made for pleasure or vacation. Travelers may take with them a max imum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities require export licenses. When applying for a license, an exporter must give de- tails of the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. The granting of the license by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are sur- rendered to the National Bank of Ethiopia w i th in three months and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Pre- scription of Currency, above ). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a max imum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Foreign 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA exchange need not be declared by travelers on entry, and its re-export is freely permitted. Capital All receipts of capital in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. There is no dis- crimination regarding the currencies in which for- eign investments are accepted. Special conces- sions are made to approved new enterprises financed by foreign capital; these concessions include exemption from taxes for a period of five years, admission of all imports of machinery free of duty, and permission to foreign investors to remit abroad earned profits after taxation (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Upon liquidation, transfer of the entire imported capital and reinvested profits is permitted in any currency. Emigrants' allowances, transfers of legacies, and savings of foreign employees upon retirement are permitted up to the equivalent of Eth$70,000 in foreign currency. Transfers of sums in excess of this amount are authorized up to a total of Eth$70,000 in any subsequent 12-month period. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Ethiopia gold coins of a special commemorative issue, as provided in Legal Notice No. 318 of 1966. The ownership of personal jewelry and articles of adornment of which gold or platinum forms a part also is permitted. Unless specifically author- ized by the Minister of Finance, the possession or custody, in a quan t i ty in excess of 10 ounces, of raw or refined gold or platinum or of gold or platinum in the fo rm of nuggets, ores, or bullion constitutes an offense. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1967 No significant changes took place during 1967. 140 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND l Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.211590 gram of fine gold per Finnish M a rkka or Fmk 4.19997 = US$1. The off ic ial buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar vary w i th in % °f 1 Per cent on e i ther side of the par va lue. Market rates for certain other cur- rencies 2 vary between limits which result f rom combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar ma in ta ined by Finland and such limits in force in the coun try of the other currency concerned. Forward prem iums and discounts are left to the interplay of ma rket forces. Official, fixed selling rates are applied to the U.S.S.R. ruble and the U.S. dollar when used as a unit of account on b i la te ral clearing accounts. Au thor ized banks may deal among themselves, w i th their Finnish cus- tomers, and w i th foreign authorized banks, in U.S. dollars and certain other convertible or ex terna l ly convertible currencies.2 Forward transac t ions may be concluded f ree ly for periods not exceeding 12 months; fo rwa rd transac t ions w i th res iden ts mu st have a commercial basis. Administration of Control The Bank of F in land operates the exchange control system, delegating au tho r i ty to the author- ized exchange dealers (ma in ly commercial b a n k s ). Impo rt and export licensing is a dm i n- istered by an office subordinate to the M in is try of Trade and Indu s t ry, the Licensing Office, which is headed by a Licensing Board composed of gov- e r nm e nt officials, inc lud ing a represen ta t ive of the B a nk of F in land. Prescription of Currency For prescription of cu r rency purposes, coun- tr ies are d iv ided in to two groups: the b i la te ral countries ; and the convertible currency coun tr ies (a ll o t h e r s ). Settlements w i th the b i la teral coun- tries mu st be made in the currency of the agree- 1 In view of the changes t h at took place ea r ly in 1968 (see note at the end of t h is su rv ey ), th is su rvey presen ts the po s i t ion on J a n u a ry 1, 1968. - These are A u s t r i an sch i l l ings, Belgian f r a n c s, Cana- d i an d o l l a r s, D an i sh k ron e r, deu t sche m a r k, F rench f r a n c s, Ice land ic k r o n u r, I t a l i an l i re, N e t h e r l a n ds g u i l d e r s, N o rw e g i an k r o n e r, Po r tugue se escudos, p o u n ds s t e r l i n g, Span ish pesetas, Swedish k rono r, and Swiss f ranc s. :! F i n l a nd h as b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts a g r e em e n ts w i th B u l- g a r i a, M a i n l a nd C h i n a, Czechos lovak ia, Eas te rn G e r- m a n y, H u n g a r y, Po l and, R u m a n i a, a nd U.S.S.R. ment or in Finnish m a rkk as through Restricted Accounts. Settlements w i th the convertible cur- rency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. One half of the proceeds from exports to Colombia is set off against Finland's bilateral debtor balance. Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident accounts: Foreign Exchange Accounts, Convert- ible Markka Accounts, Restricted Ma rkka Accounts, and Capital Accounts. 1. Foreign Exchange Accounts are held by non- residents in convertible or bilateral currencies.4 These accounts may be credited w i th amoun ts received in the cu r rency in which the account is kep t; w i th paymen ts authorized to be made in the cu r rency in which the account is kep t; and w i th interest accrued on such accounts. They may be debited for t ran s fe rs to Capital Accounts; for pay- men ts to residents of F in land; and for w i thd rawa ls in F inn ish currency. If the account is held in a convertible currency, it may also be debited for t rans fe rs to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in any convertible currency and for t rans fe rs abroad or w i thd r aw a ls in any convertible currency. If the account is held in a bilateral currency, it may be deb i ted for t rans fe rs to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in the same currency and for t ran s fe rs to the respective b i la teral coun t ry. 2. Convertible Markka Accounts may be cred- ited w i th the equ iva lent in Finnish m a r k k as of conv e r t ib le currencies sold to an authorized b a n k; w i th au thor ized rem i t tances f rom residents of F in land to residents of convertible currency coun- tries; w i th t ran s fe rs f rom other Convertible M a r k ka Accoun ts; w i th the va lue of Finnish bankno tes received by an authorized bank f rom a bank in a convertible currency coun try; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for au thor ized paymen ts in Finland, including the purchase of foreign exchange; for remittances abroad; and for t rans fe rs to o ther Convertible M a r k k a, Restricted M a rkk a, or Capital Accounts. 3. Restricted Markka Accounts are he ld by res iden ts of coun t r ies w i th wh ich F in land has 4 R e s i d e n ts a re a l so p e rm i t t ed to ho ld Fore ign E x c h a n ge A c c o u n t s. 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 3). They may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of U.S. dollars, the currencies listed in foot- note 2, or the currency of the country of the account holder; with transfers from another Restricted Markka Account of the same country; with authorized remittances payable to the coun- try of the account holder; with the value of Fin- nish banknotes received by an authorized bank f rom a bank in the coun try of the account holder; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments in Finland in accordance with the relevant payments agree- men t; for transfers to other Restricted Ma rkka Accounts related to the country of the account holder; for transfers to the country of the account holder; and for transfers to Capital Accounts. 4. Capital Accounts comprise all other non- resident accounts. They may be credited with funds available for credit to a Foreign Exchange Account, a Convertible Markka Account, or a Restricted Ma rkka Account; with proceeds from the sale to a resident of any asset held by a non- resident; with interest on the account; with income from nonresident-held assets; and with sums obtained f rom the redemption of bonds and deben- tures. If the account holder is a bank, the account may also be credited with transfers from a Capital Account of a resident of the same country. Capi- tal Accounts may be debited for the travel and living expenses in Finland of the account holder and nonresident members of his family or, if the holder is a firm, members of its staff traveling at the firm's expense, up to Fmk 2,000 for each person for each period of ten days; for paymen ts not exceeding Fmk 2,000 for support of a person in distress in Finland; for payments for expenses incurred by a bank in administering the assets of the account holder; for investment in shares and debentures quoted on the stock exchange and in bonds issued a f ter August 31, 1939 that are not tied to any foreign currency and are purchased by a bank on behalf of the holder; for transfers to the Capital Account of a bank located in the same country as that of the account holder; and for mon th ly transfers abroad up to Fmk 2,000 to an account holder who has resided abroad dur ing the last calendar year, and continues to do so, pro- vided that he is destitute in his coun try of resi- dence. Other transfers between Capital Accounts and other transfers abroad of funds deposited in 142 Capital Accounts require the specific permission of the Bank of Finland. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported free of license from the multilateral area or license-free area (i.e., nearly all countries with which Finland does not have bilateral payments agreements), pro- vided that the goods are purchased from and origi- nate in that area. Certain other goods may be imported from the multilateral area under a global quota system, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of certain value quotas for specified commodity groups; no industrial goods are restricted by global quotas. The total value of the global quotas for 1968 amoun ts to less than 2 per cent of total 1967 imports. All remaining goods require an indi- vidual license when imported f rom the multilateral area and are set out in a negative list, the discre- tionary licensing list, which comprises only agri- cultural commodities and petroleum products. Import licenses are not required for most com- modities originating in and shipped from the U.S.S.R., and for many commodities originating in and shipped f rom the other bilateral countries; alt commodities liberalized for import from the bilateral area are among those already liberalized for import from the multilateral area. Other imports from the bilateral countries are admitted under licenses up to quotas provided for under the related trade agreement. All other imports require individual licenses. For goods that do not require a license when imported from the bilateral area, the importer must file an import control declaration w i th the customs for statistical pur- poses. Exchange is granted without delay for all per- mitted imports on presentation of an application fo rm, the import license if required, and the original commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is suf- ficient evidence to guarantee their importation. Payment for imports must be made within six months af ter the arrival of goods in the country. For imports on credit of over six months, the credit must be authorized by the Bank of Finland. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks have general-permission to effect payments for most current invisibles, sub- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ject in some cases to a max imum allowance or other conditions; for other transactions, with few exceptions, exchange licenses are granted liberally by the Bank of Finland. All contracts involving payments to nonresidents for which general per- mission has not been granted must be submitted to the Bank of Finland for approval. A Finnish resident going abroad may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange equiva- lent to Fmk 1,000 a trip, irrespective of his desti- nation. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Fmk 100 a trip in Finnish notes and coins and any reasonable amount in foreign notes and coins; travelers to neighboring countries making frequent trips to destinations not located beyond any municipality adjoining Finland's land bound- ary may take out Fmk 100 a person a month in Finnish notes and coins. The automatic exchange allocation for business travel is the equivalent of Fmk 120 a day. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for exports of metal scrap. Exports of othej goods require only an export control declaration, which is approved automatically by the Licensing Office except in a few specified cases. Certain exports to countries not in the multilateral area are restricted. Foreign exchange acquired through commodity exports must be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. However, exporters are permitted to keep a part of their export pro- ceeds in foreign exchange accounts with Finnish banks or with banks abroad. The accounts may be used by the exporter to pay for incidental expenses related to exports and for authorized imports of raw materials, equipment, and machinery. The Bank of Finland may at any time claim the accounts against payment at the official rate. A number of commodities are subject to export taxes; the rates of tax are to be decreased progressively, and the act authorizing their imposition is to expire at the end of 1969. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of f re ight earnings, foreign exchange receipts derived f rom current invisibles do not have to be surrendered. The authorized exchange dealers and shipping firms are allowed to ma in ta in their own working balances in foreign FINLAND exchange, under the supervision of the Bank of Finland. The import of Finnish and foreign means of payment by nonresident travelers and returning Finnish residents is unrestricted. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Bank of Finland. Inheritances are in most cases transferable with- out limitation and, subject to certain conditions, are generally transferred automatically up to Fmk 100,000 for each beneficiary. Nonresidents who have resided outside Finland for the last calendar year and continue to do so are permitted to repatriate their blocked funds within three years (1) by annual installments of Fmk 12,500 for amounts not exceeding Fmk 50,000, or (2) by four equal annual installments for amounts exceed- ing Fmk 50,000. To the annual installments may be added interest accrued on the account calcu- lated in conformity with the ordinary rate of bank interest paid on deposits. Moreover, persons who have resided abroad since September 1, 1939 and foreign corporate bodies that have maintained an account with a Finnish monetary institution since that date are permitted to repatriate their balances freely. Nonresident bondholders may repatriate amoun ts fa l l ing due on account of redemption of bonds in markkas issued before September 1, 1939. Nonresidents may purchase through an author- ized bank, against convertible or externally con- vertible currencies or by debiting a Convertible Markka Account, bonds, debentures, or shares quoted on the Helsinki stock exchange. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are deposited in the custody of the authorized bank, the nonresident purchaser is permitted to sell the securities on the stock exchange through the au- thorized bank and to repatriate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible or an externally convert- ible currency. No permission is needed for the acquisition with funds classified as Capital Accounts of shares and debentures quoted on the stock exchange and of bonds issued af ter August 31, 1939, but proceeds from the sale of such securities may not be repatriated without the permission of the Bank of Finland. Any other transactions in, and the export of, securities involv- 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND ing nonresident interests require approval. If the securities were acquired with convertible foreign exchange or with markkas from a Convertible Markka Account, approval for their export can be obtained freely. The import of securities by nonresidents and returning Finnish residents is unrestricted. The regulations concerning foreign investments are as follows. All incoming capital transactions must be approved by the Bank of Finland, which considers the foreign exchange aspect. The Bank grants permission liberally, unless the investment is judged to be exceptionally detrimental to the national interest or to be of a purely financial character. Repatriation of direct investments made by means of import of capital is free. Foreign investments that involve a participation of more than 20 per cent in the capital of an enterprise require, in certain cases, the approval of the State Council. This approval, when required, is usually granted liberally. The primary reason for the 20 per cent limit is concern for the protection of na tural resources, mainly forests. Direct foreign investments in the forest and mining industries are not normally permitted. On demand of the Bank of Finland, residents must declare their foreign assets and the yields on their property owned abroad. Proceeds from the sale of securities and real property abroad must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents require individual approval; investment by residents in foreign securities or real estate is rarely permitted. For direct investment abroad, approval is granted on the merits of each case. Finnish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 50,000 a person. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form at home; residents other than the monetary authorities and industrial users are not allowed to buy, hold, or sell gold abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; for most such articles, these are granted freely. 144 Changes during 1967 January 1. The import regulations for 1967 entered into force. Commodities under 30 tariff headings were removed from the global quota list and no longer required licenses when imported from the multilateral area; some of these goods also were freed f rom licensing when imported from bilateral countries. January 15. Exchange allocations for travel services (other than transportation) included in the cost of a trip paid for in domestic currency before departure were limited to Fmk 400 a per- son a trip for travel in Scandinavian countries and Fmk 800 a person a trip for travel in other coun- tries. Amoun ts in excess of Fmk 200 (for Scandi- navian trave l) or Fmk 400 (for other travel) were to be deducted from the standard exchange allow- ance for tourist travel. January 19. The Government issued a policy statement encouraging foreign direct investment in Finland and appointed a commission to provide foreign entrepreneurs with information and to for- ward to the relevant authorities applications for new inward investments, together with the com- mission's views on the proposals. March 12. The import du ty on automobiles originating in EFTA countries and the U.S.S.R. was reduced by one half. Purchase tax on all new cars from all sources was increased by 5 percent- age points; the m in imum payable was 50 per cent of the landed value. April 21. The list was extended of imports for which payment must be made or deposited in cash before the goods are either cleared through customs or admitted to customs warehouses or free ports. July 1. Multilateral import treatment was extended, with minor exceptions, to the Republic of Korea. September 18. Certain textile materials for the clothing indus try were exempted from the require- ment of cash payment or deposit before customs clearance or admission to free ports or customs warehouses. September 21. The issuance of licenses for the import of passenger cars and delivery vans was suspended. Licenses already issued remained valid. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution October 12. The par value was changed from Fmk 3.20 = US$1 to Fmk 4.19997 = US$1. October 21. A temporary export du ty of 14 per cent was levied on most products. The du ty would be lowered gradually, to be abolished by the end of 1969. October 27. It was announced that from Janu- ary 1, 1968, Finnish importers would again be allowed to utilize up to six months' credit on imports of all commodities. October 27. The 14 per cent export duty was abolished for a number of goods and reduced for certain other commodities to 5, 8, or 11 per cent. November 15. Licensing of imports of passen- ger cars and delivery vans was resumed upon the enactment of a new tax on motor vehicles. December 7. The export du ty was eliminated or reduced for additional commodities. December 31. The remaining quotas and cus- toms duties (with the exception of specified fiscal du t ies) on industrial imports from EFTA countries were eliminated; as far as global quotas were con- cerned, this import liberalization was extended also to all other countries in the multilateral area. December 31. The bilateral payments agree- ment w i th Colombia was terminated. Payments henceforth took place in convertible exchange, with the exception that one half of Finnish export proceeds would be applied to the settlement of Finland's bilateral debtor balance, until its liquida- FINLAND tion. For import licensing purposes, Colombia was included in the multilateral area. NOTE. —The fo l low ing changes took place early in 1968: January 1. The automatic allocation of exchange for tourist travel was increased to Fmk 1,000 a person a trip, irrespective of destination, from Fmk 400 a trip for travel to Scandinavian coun- tries and Fmk 800 a trip for other countries. The additional exchange allocation for travel services (other than transportation) included in the cost of a trip paid for in domestic currency before depar- ture was fixed at Fmk 1,000 a person a trip; amoun ts in excess of Fmk 500 were to be deducted f rom the standard tourist exchange allocation. January 1. A number of changes were intro- duced in the regulations governing Capital Accounts. The max imum permitted amounts for certain outward capital transfers were revised. The m in imum period over which the repatriation of nonresident-owned blocked f u n ds must be spread was reduced. January 1. The special regulation applicable to paymen ts to Brazil were abolished. January 1. The import regulations for 1968 entered into force. January 1. All imports could again be paid for w i th in six months of arrival in Finland. 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Exchange System The par value is 0.180000 gram of fine gold per French Franc or F 4.93706 = US$1. Mar- ket rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are maintained between official limits of F 4.90 buying, and F 4.9740 selling, per US$1. Market rates for Western European currencies and a few other currencies fluctuate between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by France and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward exchange transactions, which are permitted in any currency and for any period, take place at freely negotiated rates. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings, whether spot or forward, by residents or nonresidents, whether banks or non- banks. Transfers between France and foreign countries are free. There are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements. Residents are not required to repatriate or sur- render their foreign exchange earnings or hold- ings, which may be held in France or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in French francs or in any foreign currency may be held in France by any nonresident. Balances on nonresident-held accounts may be transferred freely to any type of resident-held or nonresident- held account and used for any payment in France or abroad, including the purchase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of for- eign or domestic securities or of gold, but imports and exports of gold require prior notification to the Bank of France. All payments to and receipts f rom foreign countries must be registered, for statistical pur- poses only; when amounts of F 10,000 or more are involved, the nature of the transfer must be indicated ( for amounts of F 500 or more when payment is made through postal channels). Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than France, i.e., other than continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments, and the Overseas Territories (except the French Terri- 146 tory of the Afars and the Issas); the Principality of Monaco is assimilated with France.1 Certain controls are maintained over direct investment and over borrowing abroad; these do not apply to relations with the following states, whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account: Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazza- ville), Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Mala- gasy Republic, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. Privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions is accorded to (1) the coun- tries just mentioned and (2) Algeria, Cambodia, Guinea, Laos, Mali, Morocco, Tunisia, North Viet-Nam, Republic of Viet-Nam, and the Condo- minium of the New Hebrides. The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy and Finance is the coordinating agency in the field of financial relations with for- eign countries. It is in charge of all matters relat- ing to inward and outward direct investment and to borrowing abroad. The Directorate also evalu- ates the balance of payments, together with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its construction. The Bank of France also gives its visa on import and export declarations for gold. The Directorate of Insurance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, reinsur- ance, annuities, etc., and the Ministry of Industry has certain powers in respect of licensing contracts and contracts relating to technical assistance. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls within the framework of commercial policy directives established by the Directorate of 1 Present French legislation no longer makes reference to the concept French Franc Area. From an exchange control point of view, this Area ceased to exist when France abolished exchange control. In the context of countries' over-all relations w i th France, however, the concept survives. In this sense the French Franc Area consists of France and the following countries: (1) the countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ); (2) the countries of the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (Cameroon, Cen- tral A f r i c an Republic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), and G a b o n ); ( 3) three Nor th A f r ican countries (Algeria, Morocco, and Tun i s ia ); and two other countries (Ma la- gasy Repub l ic and M a l i ). This definition is followed, in ter alia, in compiling the balance of payments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign Economic Relations; the Directorate- General also issues import and export licenses. France accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Imports and Import Payments Goods originating in and shipped from other parts of the French Franc Area or from certain other countries that are accorded privileged treat- ment in respect of trade transactions (see section on Exchange System, above) are generally admitted free of quantitative restriction and indi- vidual license. Imports of goods which originate in other countries and are not covered by French import liberalization require individual licenses. Some imports from EEC countries and some other imports from non-EEC countries are subject to m in imum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. For import control purposes, countries outside the French Franc Area are divided into four groups according to the extent of import liberaliza- tion: (1) the former OEEC countries, their dependent territories and certain former dependent territories, Andorra, Canada, Finland, the United States, and Yugoslavia; (2) 49 specified coun- tries; - (3) the Eastern European countries (Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, and the U.S.S.R.) and Main- land China; and (4) certain other countries not included in any of the foregoing groups. Eastern Germany occupies an intermediate position between categories ( 3) and ( 4 ). Imports from all countries of certain agricultural items and certain raw materials are free of quantitative restrictions. Commodities that may be imported free of quantitative restrictions from one group of countries include all the commodities that may be freely imported from the next group of coun- tries plus some other specified commodities. 2 Afghan is tan, Argentina, Aus tra l ia, Bhu t an, Bolivia, Brazil, Bu rma, Ceylon, Chile, Republic of China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Haiti, Hon- duras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jo rdan, Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, L ibya, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pak is tan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arab ia, South Afr ica, Sudan, Syrian A rab Republic, Thailand, United A rab Repub l ic, U ru- guay, Venezuela, and Yemen. FRANCE Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one country may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of ship- ment both benefit f rom the liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quantita- tive restrictions, but such restrictions are applied to a number of agricultural products; there is relatively little difference between the lists of goods which may be imported freely from different coun- tries in this group, these differences relating mainly to Canada, the United States, Hong Kong, and Macao. Imports of 54 industrial products from countries in group (2) are restricted, and restric- tions are applied to these 54 and to certain addi- tional industrial products from group (3) coun- tries. For some commodities, there are global quotas that are allocated semiannually and apply to all countries other than those having the benefit of privileged treatment. Imports from non-EEC countries of most prod- ucts covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC (including cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and poultry mea t) are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of beef, veal, dairy products, olive oil, most other oils and fats, sugar, and specified fru i ts and vegetables. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade control formalities, only a customs document that constitutes the customs declaration being required. For some liberalized imports, an administrative visa issued by the central customs administration or by the competent technical ministry is required on an import declaration. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Community require licenses, which are issued automatically. Other imports generally require individual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas determined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and applicable to specified countries or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Moreover, licenses may be issued under the IMEX and EXIM procedures,3 3 Under the IMEX procedure, licenses are issued for imports of goods needed to produce goods for export. The lag between importation and exportation may not 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE which provide for the importation of raw materials and other goods needed to produce goods for export, or under the compensation transaction procedure, which applies mainly to agricultural items from countries in the Soviet bloc. Because of the high degree of import liberalization, and as a result of the abolition of exchange control, imports under these schemes now are of very slight importance. Payments for imports may be made freely, at any time, in any manner, and without any for- mality. Commodity futures may be dealt in freely, in France or abroad. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. French and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. Certain transactions —but not the related pay- ments —between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include certain transactions relating to insurance, rein- surance, intellectual property rights, road and river transport, and motion-picture films. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may only be exported if a special license is issued. Some other exports also require individual licenses; but if the total value does not exceed F 500, these exports may be permitted without any for- mality, subject to certain exceptions. Regard- less of their value, exports under the IMEX or EXIM procedures, or through compensation trans- actions with certain countries,4 require licenses if the commodities are those for which export licenses are required. Other exports are free of trade or exchange controls; when such exports exceed F 5,000 in value, certain financial informa- tion must be supplied together with the customs declaration for statistical purposes. The repatria- exceed six months. Under the EXIM procedure, exporters are assured of receiving import licenses for the subse- quent importation of goods used in the production of the ir exports. The t ime lag between expor ta t ion and importation is six to nine months. 4 A lb an i a, Bu lgar ia, Ma in land Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hunga ry, Nor th Korea, Poland, R um a n i a, Tu rkey, U.S.S.R., Un i ted A r ab Repub l ic, Yugoslavia, and certain La t in Ame r ican countries. 148 tion and surrender of export proceeds is not required. Exporters may grant credit for any period and are free to sell forward their anticipated export proceeds. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports and are exempt from turnover taxes, even when paid for in French francs. Holders of exporters' cards, which are issued to enterprises that export a certain percentage of their production, are entitled to obtain every year import licenses for any commodity still sub- ject to quota and related to their export activity, up to a value corresponding to 10 per cent of their export proceeds in foreign currencies received in the previous year. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents, and the proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. With minor exceptions for certain types of transaction, services performed for non- residents do not require licenses. Travelers may bring in any amount of bank- notes and coins in French francs, CFA francs, Malagasy francs, CFP francs, or any other foreign currency; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia is pro- hibited at the request of those countries. Capital Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license, through banks or any other channel. Foreign and domestic securities of all types may be imported or exported freely, whether through the intermediary of a bank or not, and transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic and foreign real estate (except when forming part of a direct investment) are unrestricted. Capital assets abroad of resi- dents are not subject to repatriation and may be freely disposed of. Certain controls are maintained over borrow- ing abroad, over capital issues on the French market, and on inward and outward direct invest- ment, but these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of the controls over capital issues ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in France, the control measures do not apply to relations with countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in France and French direct investments abroad must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance when they are being made. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects sub- mitted to him. Insofar as the liquidation of direct investments is concerned, whether these are French investments abroad or foreign investments in France, the liquidation must be reported, and the report must be submitted within 20 days fol- lowing each liquidation. Foreign issues on the French capital market remain subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance, as do issues by French companies.5 Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French Gov- ernment, (2) shares similar to securities that already are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France, or (3) securities whose issue has previ- ously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of jurid- ical persons whose registered office is abroad, require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, how- ever, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between France and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons 5 Since 1916, a ll c ap i t al issues in F rance h ave requ i red app rova l. FRANCE or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed F 2 million for any one borrower. Banks in France may freely grant overdrafts on nonresident-held accounts for any period. Non- residents are free to subscribe to French short- term securities. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dis- pose of gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold are free and require only a prior notification to the Bank of France, which gives its visa automatically, on an import or export declaration form that must be presented to the customs. Exempt from prior declaration to the Bank of France, but not from customs declara- tion, are ( 1) imports and exports of gold made by or on behalf of the Bank of France; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing only a minor quantity of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles; (3) imports and exports of gold objects (other than coins and bars, but including both personal and other jewe lry) whose combined weight does not exceed 500 grams; and (4) imports and exports of up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Exempt from prior export declaration are col- lectors' items of gold and gold antiques that are exported under "02 licenses" granted with the approval of the Directorate of Museums. The import and export of certain gold objects that are considered merchandise, such as gold watches, is subject both to the regular import and export licensing arrangements and, unless covered by the exemptions listed above, to prior declaration to the Bank of France. Changes during 1967 January 1. Imports from EEC countries of certain fru i ts and vegetables were freed f rom quantitative restrictions. January 13. Imports from Eastern European countries and Mainland China of some 200 addi- tional commodities were liberalized; most of these items were also liberalized when originating in and shipped from Eastern Germany. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE January 31. Law No. 66-1008 dated Decem- ber 28, 1966 and enforcement Decree No. 67-78 dated January 27, 1967 introduced far-reaching changes in the system governing France's financial relations with countries abroad, on and from January 31, 1967. (An Arrete dated January 27 of the Minister of Economy and Finance and the Minister of Overseas Departments and Territories set out the authorization and notification require- ments for the application of Decree No. 67-78.) Exchange control was abolished and complete freedom of transfers between France and foreign countries was restored, making the f ranc both internally and externally convertible. However, without prejudice to the convertibility of the franc, control was exercised by the Minister of Economy and Finance over a limited number of capital transactions. The distinction between resi- dents and nonresidents was abolished, as were the system of nonresident accounts and the concept of an authorized bank (intermediate agree). In contrast to the previous legislation, neither the law nor the enforcement decree contained any reference to the concept of the French Franc Area. The concept of "foreign country" was extended to include all countries other than France, i.e., other than continental France, Corsica, the Over- seas Departments, and Overseas Territories (except French Somaliland).6 The Principality of Monaco was assimilated with France. Neverthe- less, the control measures affecting direct invest- ment and borrowing abroad did not apply to rela- tions with the states whose bank of issue at the time was linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. For the purpose of the compilation of a national balance of payments, for the first time covering also the transactions with the other French Franc Area countries, all payments and receipts between France and foreign countries had to be notified to the Bank of France. The exchange control procedures for exports and imports were abolished, including the domi- ciliation requirement for imports and the foreign exchange commitment for exports. Most of the details were announced in an Arrete of the 0 This t e r r i to ry la ter became the French Te r r i to ry of the A f a rs and Issas by v i r tue of Law No. 67-521 of J u ly 3, 1967. 150 Director-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes dated January 30, 1967 and published as a Notice to Importers and Exporters dated January 31, 1967. Nothing was changed in the regimes appli- cable to trade with certain countries and territories that benefited from a privileged treatment. These were listed in Article 86 of the Arrete, which article also stated that, for trading purposes, they were not considered foreign countries. Instruc- tions dated February 6, 1967 and May 31, 1967, respectively, added North Viet-Nam and the Con- dominium of the New Hebrides to the list. Also unchanged were the trade regimes between France and the Overseas Departments and Territories. During February, exchange control was abolished in the French Overseas Territories (Comoro Islands, St. Pierre and Miquelon, New Caledonia, Wallis and Fu tuna Islands, and French Polynesia). January 31. Decree No. 67-82 of Janua ry 27 concerning industrial property rights went into effect. For its implementation, an Arrete was issued on March 6, 1967, which was followed by a circular of the Minister of Industry on April 13, 1967. All contracts, or changes in contracts, con- cluded with persons domiciled abroad or having their head office abroad that related to industrial property rights (patent, trademark, and know- how licensing, technical assistance agreements, etc.) were required to be submitted, two months before their entry into effect, to the Minister of Industry, who, within 40 days from the date of receipt of the contract, must give the resident par ty concerned his opinion on its final text. Previously, such contracts and all applications for payment of royalties were screened by the Bank of France. February 1. A Notice to Importers provided that imports of North African wine would be suspended whenever the producer price was less than the m in imum intervention price in France plus 2 per cent. February 15. An agreement concerning mone- tary relations with Mali was signed. It came into force on May 6, 1967. Mali would create a new, jointly managed bank of issue. France would then ensure the free convertibility of Mali's currency. For that purpose, an Operations Account would be opened with the French Treasury. Subse- quently, after a period to be agreed upon, Mali would resume membership in the West African Monetary Union. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution February 22. New import and export pro- cedures for gold were announced by Decision No. 67-101 of the customs administration. February 25. The import of a number of products was prohibited when originating in or shipped from Rhodesia. These included asbestos; iron pyrite; chrome ore and its concentrates; hides and skins; and copper and copper alloys in various forms. Some of these imports already were pro- hibited, and the French tobacco monopoly had previously stopped its purchases of Rhodesian tobacco. February 25. The export to Rhodesia of a number of products was prohibited. These included petroleum and petroleum products; trac- tors; automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, and bicycles; aircraft and helicopters; and arms and ammunition. Exports of petroleum products already were prohibited. March 30. Decree No. 67-267 was issued which contained the charter for a bank of issue for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, and the Wallis and Futuna Islands. The note-issue privilege of the Banque de 1'Indochine for these territories was terminated, effective April 1. April 15. With minor exceptions, the various French import liberalization lists and regimes were also applied in the Overseas Departments (Guadeloupe, Guiana, Martinique, and Reun ion ). July 1. The requirement of a French embassy visa for the entry of duty-free Moroccan com- modities was limited to fish, canned fish, f ru i ts and vegetables, wine, and fertilizer. July 4. Exports of oil required a special license. July 7. Most exports and re-exports of refined petroleum products had to be accompanied by certificates showing where the crude oil originated; an export license remained required. July 20. Certain vegetable oils, margarine, and certain other oils and fats on the negative list for former OEEC countries, etc., were liberalized from all sources. Not included were groundnuts and groundnut oil. FRANCE August 7. All certificates of origin and quota certificates for duty-free Moroccan products required the visa of the French commercial counselor in Morocco. On October 24, this requirement was dropped for a number of prod- ucts and for all imports outside the duty-free quotas. August 17. The import into New Caledonia of all commodities other than automobiles, trucks, motor vehicles for special purposes, and matches was freed from quantitative restrictions when they originated in and were shipped from EEC coun- tries other than France. September 5. Imports from all sources of cane and beet sugar were freed from quantitative restric- tions. October 11. Decision No. 67-540 of the Director-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes provided that, with effect from January 1, 1968, the customs declarations for all imports and exports valued at F 10,000 or more, including those from or to countries with a privileged trade regime, must indicate the manner and terms of payment and the invoice value in French francs. November 7. Foreign banks were admitted to the domestic mortgage market in France. December 1. New regulations were applied to retail sales to persons not ordinarily residing in France. Discounts could be given irrespective of the currency of payment; previously, only non- residents paying in non-French Franc Area cur- rencies were entitled to such discounts. December 19. Certain additional financial agreements were signed with Mali. These pro- vided for free convertibility of the Mali franc by March 31, 1968 at the latest, on the basis of the existing exchange rate between the Mali franc and the French franc; and for the establishment by that date of a jointly managed bank of issue which would have an Operations Account with the French Treasury. 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON Exchange System No par value for the currency of Gabon has been established with the Fund. The unit of cur- rency is the CFA Franc, which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the BCEAEC and commercial banks take place at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Forward exchange transactions, which are permitted in any currency and for any period, take place at freely negotiated rates. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings, whether spot or forward, by residents or nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. There are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements, although certain controls are applied to borrowing and lending abroad, to issues and sales of foreign securities in Gabon, and to inward and outward direct investment (see section on Capital, below). In practice, settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area are usually made through cor- respondent banks in France, either in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs; settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are usually made in currencies of that Area, in prac- tice mainly in French francs. The following is applicable to payments and transactions between Gabon and all foreign coun- tries.2 Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or hold- ings, which may be held in Gabon or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in CFA francs or in any foreign currency may be held in Gabon by any nonresident. Balances on nonresident-held accounts may be transferred freely to any type of 1 The CFA f r anc c i rcu la t ing in Gabon is issued by the Banque Centrale des E ta ts de TAfr ique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, and Congo (B r a z z av i l l e ). 2 Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than Gabon. 152 resident or nonresident-held account and used for any payment in Gabon or abroad, including the purchase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment, including any amount of inter- est. There are no restrictions on the physical importation or exportation of foreign or domestic securities. Imports and exports of gold are free; these require the prior visa of the Ministry of Finance, but the visa is given automatically. Gabon's control measures affecting inward and outward direct investment, borrowing and lend- ing abroad, and issues and sales of foreign securi- ties do not apply to relations with (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member coun- tries of the Central African Customs and Eco- nomic Union (Cameroon, Central African Repub- lic, Chad, and Congo (B razzav i l le ) ); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Administration of Control The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of National Economy, Trade, and Mines, under the direction of the Foreign Trade Office, supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issue or sale of foreign securities in Gabon, and inward and outward direct investment. The Ministry of Finance gives its visa on import and export declarations for gold. All payments and receipts between Gabon and foreign countries that are made through banks or postal channels are registered, for statistical purposes only, by the BCEAEC, through the intermediary of the institu- tion executing the transfer; the BCEAEC also addresses inquiries to the principal firms and agencies concerning inward and outward payments made in other manners, particularly by the offset- ting of claims and debts. These data are collected by the BCEAEC for the compilation of the bal- ance of payments only. All registered banks in Gabon are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licenses ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of National Economy, Trade, and Mines. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources of wheat, wheat flour, sugar, beer, meat preserves, and cotton are restricted. With minor exceptions, all other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All imports from countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a joint French-Gabonese Committee. Many imports from EEC countries other than France, however, are free from quantitative restrictions; these do not require import licenses or import certificates. A special licensing procedure is applicable to the import of petroleum products. Exporters may obtain licenses for certain imports outside the import program (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Separate global quotas are established for imports from EEC countries other than France and for imports from all other countries outside the French Franc Area, except the U.S.S.R. and Mainland China, for each of which separate quotas are established. The quotas for EEC countries may be used only to import goods originating in those countries; the quotas for the other countries may be used to import goods originating in any country, except the U.S.S.R. and Mainland China. A few commodities in the program are subject to ceilings; there are separate ceilings for EEC countries other than France and for all countries outside the French Franc Area. In addition, specific ceilings apply to imports of certain goods from Far Eastern countries ( taken as a group). For goods included in the annual import pro- gram and for imports under quota from EEC countries other than France, the Ministry of National Economy publishes each year an announcement of the quota allotted to each regis- tered importer based on, principally, his import business in the previous year. Import licenses are valid for six months but may be extended, pro- vided that the importer presents valid reasons for requesting the renewal. GABON Payments for imports from any country may be made freely, at any time, and without any formal- ity. Commodity fu tures may be dealt in freely, in Gabon or abroad. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. Resident and non- resident travelers may take out any amount in domestic and foreign banknotes. Travelers also may take out freely, without declaration to the Ministry of Finance but subject to customs decla- ration, up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denom- ination or face value. Gabonese nationals travel- ing abroad must lodge a deposit (repatriation guarantee) with the Treasury; exempt are persons traveling on official business, government- sponsored students, and persons taking up salaried professional employment abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions, exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Exports to other countries of rice, corn, tobacco, cotton, diamonds, and mining products (except sodium carbonate, manganese, and crude petroleum) require licenses. Gold and uran ium may be exported only to France. Exporters may obtain import licenses for commodities outside the import program but related to their export activities, up to an amount corresponding to 10 per cent of the total value of their exports during the preceding year. Exports are free of exchange control. The repatriation and surrender of export proceeds is not required. Exporters may grant credit for any period and are free to sell forward their anticipated export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles With minor exceptions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents and the proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by the banks of issue of Guinea and Mali is prohibited or limited to certain amounts for each traveler. Travelers may also bring in freely, without declaration to the Ministry 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON of Finance but subject to customs declaration, up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Capital Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license, through banks or any other channel. Foreign and domestic securities of all types may be freely imported or exported physically, whether through the inter- mediary of a bank or not, and transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic and foreign real estate (except when forming part of a direct investment) are unrestricted. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation and may (except when forming part of a direct investment) be freely disposed of. Certain controls are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investments, and over the issuing, advertis- ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon, but these controls relate to the transac- tions themselves, not to payments or receipts. The control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Terri- tories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member coun- tries of the Central African Customs and Eco- nomic Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 3 must be declared to the Ministry of National Economy, Trade, and Mines, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undis- tributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires declaration to the Ministry of National Economy, Trade, and Mines, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon4 must be declared to the Minister of National 3 Inc lud ing those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. 4 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Gabon th at are directly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. 154 Economy, Trade, and Mines, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvest- ment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from recent of the declara- tion, during which he may request the postpone- ment of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in Gabon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Gabonese investments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior author- ization by the Minister of National Economy, Trade, and Mines. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of jurid- ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of National Economy, Trade, and Mines. The fol- lowing are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (a) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (b) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (c) loans contracted by registered banks; and (d) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (d) that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Rela- tions within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of National Economy, Trade, and Mines. The fol- lowing are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (a) loans granted by registered banks; (b) other loans, when the total amount outstand- ing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 mil- lion for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the opera- tion, except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on March 23, 1967, any enter- prise established in Gabon, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Preferential treat- ment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Gabon. Preferential treatment B applies to enter- prises whose activity and market include the terri- tory of two or more states of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC). Pref- erential treatments A and B are granted for a period of up to 15 years. Preferential treatment C is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to GABON the country's economic development; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of National Economy, Trade, and Mines, who, after examin- ing the documents, transmits them to the Invest- ment Commission. After an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treat- ments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by a decision of the Central African Customs and Economic Union upon the recom- mendation of the Council of Ministers. In addition to fiscal privileges, eligible compa- nies may receive protection against foreign compe- tition and may be given priority in the allocation of imports, of public credit, and of government con- tracts. Gold Residents are free to hold gold in any form, at home or abroad. Unworked gold may be exported only to France; with this exception, resi- dents are free to acquire and dispose of gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold (except exports of unworked gold, which require a license) require, in addition to a customs declaration, a prior declaration to the Ministry of Finance, which grants its visa auto- matically. Exempt from the latter requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAEC, (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles), (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles (other than coins and bars) whose combined weight does not exceed 500 grams, and (4) imports and exports of up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Changes during 1967 March 15. Notice No. 413 of the Exchange Office extended from 180 days to one year after arrival of the goods at their destination the 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON period within which the proceeds from exports to countries outside the French Franc Area had to be surrendered. March 15. Notice No. 414 of the Exchange Office abolished the deposit obligation in respect of non-French Franc Area currencies and non- French Franc Area securities held in Gabon. March 23. The Investment Code of Decem- ber 4, 1961 was amended by Ordinance No. 21/67, to conform more closely to the UDEAC investment convention; many of its provisions were made more liberal. May 15. Arrete No. 532/PR of May 2, 1967 established that export licenses for exports to countries outside the French Franc Area no longer were required for commodities other than rice, corn, cotton, tobacco, mining products (except sodium carbonate, manganese, and crude petro- leum), and diamonds. June 1. By virtue of Circular No. 25/MECM of May 12, 1967, the authorization to import cof- fee, irrespective of origin, was made conditional on the purchase of a certain quantity of local coffee; the prescribed ratio was one ton of locally produced coffee for three tons of imported coffee. July 1. Ordinance No. 28-67 of June 29, 1967 established the principle that financial relations with foreign countries were free. With minor exceptions, all existing legislation contrary to this principle was revoked, including Law No. 41/61 of June 5, 1961 concerning exchange control and Law No. 46/61 of November 6, 1961 concerning the creation of the Exchange Office administering the exchange controls. The law also provided for the statistical registration of all inward and out- ward payments. Previously, current and capital payment to French Franc Area countries were already unrestricted; they were also free of super- vision, as were inward transfers originating in French Franc Area countries. Normally, the repatriation and surrender of claims, earnings, and proceeds accruing abroad would no longer be required. Import and export regulations were not affected, although the related exchange control formalities were abolished; these included the requirements that import licenses and import certificates be domiciled with an authorized 156 bank, and that exporters sign a foreign exchange commitment in respect of all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. July 1. Decree No. 323/PR of June 30, 1967 established the principal rules for the application of Ordinance No. 28-67. The decree defined the concept of "foreign countries" and indicated the types of capital transactions with foreign coun- tries that would be subject either to declaration or prior approval. July 1. Decree No. 324/PR of June 30, 1967 created a Balance of Payments Committee charged with periodically constructing a national balance of payments. For this purpose, all banks and financial institutions as well as the postal admin- istration were required to notify the BCEAEC of all payments between Gabon and foreign coun- tries, all transactions in foreign currency, all trans- actions in CFA francs that affected financial rela- tions with foreign countries, and all transactions in securities between residents and nonresidents. The BCEAEC was given authority to request any information required for the compilation of the balance of payments from physical and juridical persons, whether public agencies or not, that are customarily resident in Gabon or have their head office in Gabon. July 1. Decree No. 325/PR of July 1, 1967 abolished the Exchange Office, which prior to that date had administered exchange controls, and created an Office of Foreign Financial Relations to take its place. This Office was to participate, together with the BCEAEC, in the centralization of information required for the preparation of the balance of payments. It would also examine applications for the authorization, and receive the declarations, that were required by Decree No. 67-323. July 1. Decree No. 326/PR of July 1, 1967 abolished the import license or import certificate requirements for all commodities that already were liberalized when originating in EEC countries. The export licensing requirements were abolished except for the export or re-export to countries out- side the French Franc Area of gold, diamonds, live animals, munitions, opium, and a few other com- modities. Exporters could be granted licenses ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for imports of goods related to their export activi- ties, up to 10 per cent of the value of their exports in the preceding year; this arrangement replaced the EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) regime that was terminated by the abolition of exchange control. August 12. Notice No. 487/DAE formally terminated the requirement that import and export licenses be domiciled with a bank in Gabon, October 1. Decree No. 438/PR of Septem- ber 16 extended to September 30, 1968 the exemption from certain taxes on cocoa exports. GABON 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA ' Exchange Rate System No par value for the Gambian Pound has been established with the Fund. The official rate is <£G 1 = <£ stg. 1, corresponding to <£G 1 = US$2.40. The currency-issuing authority is the Gambian Currency Board; subject to minimum transactions, the Board is statutorily required to issue currency against sterling at a rate of not more than <£ stg. 100 15s. Od. per <£G 100 and to redeem currency against sterling at a rate of not less than <£ stg. 99 5s. Od. per <£G 100. There is only one commercial bank and this deals with customers for spot transactions in sterling at the Currency Board's rates and in other currencies at rates determined by the prevailing market rate for the currency concerned in London against sterling. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Minis- try of Finance. The commercial bank may author- ize sales of currencies of countries outside the Sterling Area for permitted imports from outside the Area and, up to the amount of the basic travel allowance, for travel outside the Sterling Area. All other sales of non-Sterling Area currencies are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, which is also responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency The Gambia is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with other Sterling Area coun- tries may be made and received freely in sterling or in any other Sterling Area currency. Settle- ments with countries outside the Sterling Area may be made and received in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Nonresident Accounts While there is legal provision for the commer- cial bank in The Gambia to maintain desig- nated nonresident accounts (including Blocked Accounts) for residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, in fact all accounts are maintained 1 The Gambia became a member of the International Monetary Fund on September 21, 1967. 158 as resident accounts irrespective of the residen- tial status of the account holder. Consequently, nonresident account holders may freely use their accounts for settlements within The Gambia and the Sterling Area, but settlements outside the Area are subject to the same controls as apply to resi- dents of The Gambia; there are no restrictions on credits to such accounts. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain specified goods is pro- hibited from all sources, predominantly on social, health, and moral grounds. The import from any country of rice and wheat flour is subject to spe- cific licensing in order to ensure the adequacy of such imports and their fair domestic pricing; the import of rice is in the hands of a consortium of import trading companies under the control of the Government. All other imports are freely permitted under an Open General License if imported from the following countries, but are subject to specific licensing if imported from other countries: (1) all countries within the Sterling Area; (2) Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, and the United States, together with the overseas territories of these countries; and (3) Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Mali, Morocco, Paraguay, Peru, Senegal, the Syrian Arab Repub- lic, Thailand, the United Arab Republic, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia. Imports from Sterling Area countries may be paid for freely in Gambian pounds or in any cur- rency of the Sterling Area. Settlement for imports from outside the Sterling Area requires exchange control authorization, which is freely given with- out evidence of importation for any commodity that is covered by a valid specific import license or that does not require a specific license; pay- ment may be effected in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Sterling Area countries may be made freely. The commercial bank may author- ize payments for invisibles in currencies of coun- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tries outside the Sterling Area for transactions related to external trade when such payments are properly due outside the Area. It may also authorize a basic exchange allowance of the equivalent of £G 50 a person a calendar year for residents for travel outside the Sterling Area; of this amount, £G 25 may be taken in currency notes of countries outside the Sterling Area. The basic allowance may be accumulated up to three years. Application for permission to effect other payments for invisibles in currencies of countries outside the Sterling Area are dealt with adminis- tratively but liberally by the Ministry of Finance. Irrespective of destination, each traveler leaving The Gambia may take out £G 15 in Gambian currency notes. Visitors to The Gambia may also take out with them on departure any other cur- rency notes declared by them when entering the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Because of needs for local consumption, the export to any destination of charcoal, firewood, and crustaceans is subject to specific licensing, as is the export of all goods to Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugo- slavia. The export of all other goods to any other destination is freely permitted under Open Gen- eral License. Payment for exports to countries outside the Sterling Area must be received within six months from the date of export in a non- Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds or in a Sterling Area currency from the account of a nonresident of the Sterling Area, i.e., from an External Account held anywhere in the Sterling Area or from an account held in The Gambia. THE GAMBIA Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in currencies of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area must be offered for sale to the commercial bank. There is no restric- tion on the import of Gambian or other currency notes. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not controlled. Outward transfers may be effected freely to coun- tries within the Sterling Area but are subject to control to countries outside the Area. At the time of making investments in The Gambia, nonresi- dent investors may apply for an undertaking as to the authorization of applications for the subse- quent remittance of profits and repatriation of capital. All other applications to transfer capital outside the Sterling Area are dealt with adminis- tratively by the Ministry of Finance. Loans and advances by the commercial bank to nonresidents are subject to the authorization of the Ministry of Finance; such authorization is normally given freely for the purpose of providing working capi- tal to companies registered outside The Gambia for their operations in The Gambia. Gold The import of gold coins minted in the United Kingdom requires licensing by the Ministry of Finance; otherwise, gold coins and bullion may be imported freely. All internal dealings in gold and the export of gold require the permission of the Ministry of Finance. Changes during 1967 November 20. The official exchange rate was changed from £G 1 = US$2.80 to £G 1 = US$2.40. 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY Exchange System The par value is 0.222168 gram of fine gold per Deutsche Mark or DM 4.00 = US$1. The official limits established by the Deutsche Bundesbank for its dealings with banks are DM 3.97 buying, and DM 4.03 selling, per US$1. For banks' transac- tions with their customers, these rates are consid- ered as middle rates which can be exceeded by buying or selling margins. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these margins. Market rates for certain other currencies vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Germany l and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. All other currencies are also admitted to market quotations in Germany. Premiums and discounts on forward exchange transactions are left to the interplay of market forces. There are no restric- tions on foreign exchange dealings by residents or nonresidents. There are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, which may be held in Germany or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in deutsche mark or in any for- eign currency may be held in Germany by any nonresident. Balances on nonresident accounts may be transferred freely to any type of resident or nonresident account and used for any payment in Germany or abroad, including the purchase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment. However, credit balances on nonresident accounts, except savings accounts of individual persons, may carry interest only if a special license has been granted. Such licenses may be obtained by all credit institutions for the payment of interest on customers' balances held as cover for letters of credit; otherwise, licenses are given in exceptional cases only. Germany accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15, 1961. 1 The term "Germany" is used in th is survey as an abb rev ia t ion for the Federal Repub l ic of Ge rmany, inc lud ing Ber l in (W e s t ). 160 Administration of Control The administration of control in Germany in respect of imports and exports of goods and ser- vices is operated by the Federal Ministry of Eco- nomics, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry (Bundesamt fur gewerbliche Wirtschaft), the Federal Office for Food and Forestry (Bundesamt fiir Erndhrung und Forstwirtschaft), Import and Storage Agencies (Einfuhr- und Vorratsstellen), and the Land Ministries of Economics. The Deut- sche Bundesbank is primarily the authority in charge of exchange control for certain capital transactions. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Imports and Import Payments Imports of virtually all commodities either originating in or purchased in Rhodesia are sus- pended. With this exception, quantitative restric- tions are not applied to imports of most commodi- ties purchased from and originating in countries other than Soviet countries and Mainland China (i.e., the countries included in country list C of the Foreign Trade Regulation); out of a total of some 8,100 items, 7,400 may be imported freely from those other countries (i.e., those in country lists A and B of the Foreign Trade Law). In addition, some 235 items are liberalized when originating in European OECD countries and their associated or dependent territories. Certain solid fuels are liberalized only when purchased and imported from other member countries of the European Coal and Steel Community; imports of coal from other sources are limited to a global quota. Imports from all sources of about 190 tariff items (sugar, cereals, cattle, certain meat and meat products, milk, and edible fa ts) are con- trolled by virtue of the German Marketing Laws; since these items are also covered by EEC regula- tions, licenses are issued automatically and without limit for the import of all of them from EEC countries and for the import of some of them from any source. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricul- tural Policy of the EEC (including cereals, rice, pork, eggs, certain oils and fats, cane sugar, and poultry meat) are subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to im- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of beef, veal, dairy products, certain wines, olive oil, and speci- fied fru i ts and vegetables. De facto liberalization is extended to many industrial and certain agricultural commodities when originating in and purchased in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, or Rumania. Under these arrangements, import licenses are issued automatically upon application, provided that domestic production and prices are not affected adversely. Imports free of quantitative restriction are not subject to licensing, and no prior control is exer- cised over such imports; however, an import dec- laration stamped by the Deutsche Bundesbank, which serves as documentation for customs con- trol and for statistical purposes, is required. For imports still subject to quantitative restriction (with certain exceptions, such as books, maps, etc., and small parcels through the post), an individual import license is required. Applications are nor- mally invited by tender (Ausschreibung) pub- lished in the Official Gazette. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first-come, first-served basis, or account may be taken of con- ditions of price, delivery, quality, etc., or of the total value of applications in relation to the quotas established for specified commodities. For manufactured goods, the period of validity of the license is usually six months, but it may be extended in certain cases (e.g., heavy machinery) to a period necessary for the production of the goods. For agricultural products the usual period is also six months; however, for seasonal imports, it may be shorter. No fees are charged for licenses to import manufactured goods. Payments for imports are free, even if the under- lying import transaction is still restricted. Com- modity futures may be dealt in freely. Transit trade transactions may, in principle, be carried out freely; but when they involve certain countries, they are subject to certain conditions. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. GERMANY The following transactions —but not the related payments —between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from residents of specified countries; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterways traf- fic; transactions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine liability insurance and aviation insurance, except passenger accident insurance; the produc- tion of motion pictures in association with non- residents; and certain contracts with nonresidents pertaining to motion-picture films.2 Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports and transit sales to Rhodesia are suspended. With few exceptions, other export transactions may be carried out freely. For all goods, only an export notification, for statistical purposes, is required. Certain exports—mostly strategic goods—are subject to individual licens- ing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations and also check to see whether a license is required. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all payments. Claims exceeding DM 10,000 that have been overdue for more than three months must be reported, for statistical purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services, and for technical assistance through the delivery to residents of Eastern bloc countries of constructional drawings, materials, and instructions for manufacture, insofar as such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of pay- ments for services rendered to nonresidents. How- ever, receipts exceeding DM 500 on account of such services have to be reported. 2 Restrictions are applied only to the acquisition from nonresidents of rights to films that are to be shown in the original German-speaking version or in a German- synchronized version, the acquisition of rights to films of any k ind originating in Eastern bloc countries, and the acceptance of film services f rom Eastern bloc countries. 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license. However, domestic money market paper (Treasury bills, etc.) and domestic fixed-interest-bearing securities —if in the latter case the contracts contain an obligation to reacquire the securities later at a definitely fixed price—may not be sold to non- residents without an individual license. Securities of all types may be imported or exported freely. There are no limitations on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inherited by nonresidents, or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home and abroad and negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. Imports require a license from the Federal Office for Trade and Industry when the gold is purchased in or originates in a country on country list C of the Foreign Trade Regulation (mainly Eastern European countries and Mainland China). With this exception, imports and exports by residents and nonresidents of gold in any form are unre- stricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of unworked gold and gold alloys are free of customs duty and other import charges; domestic gold sales, however, are subject to a 4 per cent sales tax.3 Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to the regular foreign trade regulations and in most cases are liberalized. Changes during 1967 January 11. It was announced that additional commodities would shortly be brought under the de facto import liberalization for specified state trading countries. 3 On J anu a ry 1, 1968, the sales tax on domestic sales of gold other than jewelry was abolished and domestic sales and imports of such gold, except imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank, became subject to the value-added tax at a rate of 10 per cent (11 per cent after June 30, 1968). The new tax is not applicable to coins that are legal tender. A separate ruling indicates those that are considered legal tender; this includes sovereigns. 162 January 11. An agreement with Hong Kong was signed that provided for voluntary restraint on exports of specified cotton textiles to Germany. February 14. Additional restrictions were imposed on trade with or relating to Rhodesia. These included a prohibition on direct or transit sales of oil and oil products, certain types of air- craft, and certain engine-driven vehicles. Imports for processing of the commodities whose import licensing was suspended on December 24, 1966 (asbestos, chromite, sugar, tobacco, etc.) became subject to import license, and all new contracts with nonresidents concerning the acquisition of these commodities for any purpose required authorization; the licensing of imports of all other commodities continued to be subject to the rule that their import should not exceed the normal volume of past years. March 31. An agreement with Hong Kong was signed that provided for voluntary restraint on exports of specified woolen garments to Germany. March 31. All liberalized imports of cotton textiles of Hong Kong or Macao origin required a certificate of origin. March 31. Imports from EEC countries of cer- tain fru i ts and vegetables were freed from quantita- tive restrictions. May 3. The statistical control over imports of heavy fuel oil and intermediate distillates was extended to imports of crude oil. All new applica- tions for import licenses for crude oil, fuel oil, and intermediate distillates were checked to determine whether the applicant's import volume was keep- ing within limits appropriate to a healthy develop- ment of the domestic energy market. July 1. Imports from all sources of certain vegetable oils, margarine, and certain other oils and fats were freed from quantitative restrictions. July 6. Export credit in excess of 180 days to the countries on country list C no longer required prior approval. August 3. The de facto liberalization accorded to specified commodities when originating in Bul- garia, Hungary, Poland, or Rumania was extended to Czechoslovakia. Export credit guarantees for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution up to eight years could be extended to deliveries of capital goods to Czechoslovakia. to that country and for an increase in a number of German import quotas. September 5. Imports from all sources of cane sugar were freed from quantitative restrictions. November 3. A trade protocol with Rumania was signed, which provided for an expansion of the de facto import liberalization already accorded December 14. The coverage of the de facto import liberalization applicable to specified state trading countries was expanded from 3,600 to 4,500 industrial commodities and from 172 to 230 agricultural commodities. GERMANY 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.870897 gram of fine gold per Ghanaian New Cedi or N0 1 = US$0.98. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rate for sterling, which is N0 1 = £0 8s. 2d. The Bank of Ghana quotas rates for the pound sterling and certain other currencies; it deals in sterling at the fixed rate plus or minus a foreign exchange com- mission of Y2 of 1 per cent. For other currencies, the commercial banks in Accra base their rates on the current London market rates plus or minus the exchange charge of l/2 of 1 per cent levied on sterling transactions and a brokerage fee of l/8 of 1 per cent. The authorized banks may arrange exchanges of Ghanaian currency for any foreign currency and engage in arbitrage in all currencies, spot or forward, but they do not maintain foreign exchange balances, receiving their requirements from the Bank of Ghana on a day-to-day basis. Administration of Control A subcommittee of the Economic Committee, under the chairmanship of the Governor of the Bank of Ghana, is responsible for drawing up an annual foreign exchange budget. This sub- committee also prepares the minimum import program and a reduced "operational" import program based upon the known available foreign exchange resources. The Ministry of Trade pre- pares an allocation of the reduced program to major commodity classifications for the approval of the Economic Committee of the National Liberation Council. The over-all import plan must correspond to the import ceiling set by the subcommittee in its reduced program. As foreign aid is received, import licenses are issued for the gap between the minimum program and the reduced program. The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade is empowered, on behalf of the Ministry of Trade, to prohibit or regulate the import and export of all goods. Open general licenses, other import licenses, and other export licenses are granted by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Applications by the industrial sector and certain state agencies for individual import licenses must be channeled through the appropriate ministry or government agency for endorsement. Applications 164 that have been endorsed by the competent minis- try or agency are then forwarded to the Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade. Applications by the commercial houses for the import of consumer and investment goods are submitted direct to the Ministry of Trade. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for payments for invisibles and capital. Permitted foreign exchange transactions must be made through authorized banks. All contracts providing the payment of any money by the Gov- ernment require the approval of the Finance Board. Prescription of Currency Ghana is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements between residents of Ghana and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in new cedis through Sterling Area accounts, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized pay- ments, including payments for imports, by resi- dents of Ghana to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in new cedis to the credit of a Foreign Account, in sterling to the credit of an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Receipts from residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in new cedis from a Foreign Account, in sterling from an Exter- nal Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. However, settlements related to transactions cov- ered by bilateral trade and payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and/or the central or state banks of the countries concerned.1 Nonresident Accounts Accounts in new cedis held by residents of countries within the Sterling Area other than 1 Ghana maintains such agreements with the follow- ing countries (the clearing accounts are denominated in Ghana ian new cedis unless otherwise no ted ): A lban ia, Bu lga r ia, Ma in land China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Daho- mey, Guinea (U.S. dollars), Hungary, Israel (sterling), Mali, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic (sterling), Upper Volta, and Yugoslavia. The agreements w i th Albania, Mainland China, Cuba, Dahomey, Guinea, Israel, and Upper Volta are at present inoperative. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Ghana are designated Sterling Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Ghana, with transfers from Foreign Accounts and from other Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area countries, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area currencies. Accounts in new cedis held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Ghana are designated Foreign Accounts. The openirig of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents of Sterling Area countries, with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds. They may be debited for inward payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds. Nonresident accounts maintained under the pro- visions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Official Accounts" or 'Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents of Sterling Area countries, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries, and with proceeds from sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds. They may be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Blocked Accounts are nonresident accounts of another category, the purpose of which is to receive funds that are not placed at the free dis- posal of nonresidents, e.g., certain types of capital proceeds. These may be debited for authorized payments, inc lud ing the purchase of approved securities. GHANA Imports and Import Payments A large part of the import trade is carried out by private importers who must be registered. Other imports are made by state agencies. Imports of most goods produced in Ghana, as well as certain other commodities of a luxury character, are severely restricted; these are specified in a List of Restricted Commodities. There are eight open general licenses which permit any registered importer to import freely from any country the commodities specified in the relevant license. These commodities include most chemicals, spare parts, and pharmaceutical products. All other imports require individual licenses, which are issued within the limits of an annual import pro- gram. Individual licenses are of two kinds: specific and special unnumbered licenses. All goods not covered by an open general license must be covered by a specific license, but where satisfactory evidence can be produced to the effect that payment for such goods has been made and therefore no transfer of foreign exchange is involved, they can be imported under "special unnumbered licenses"; these are not issued for imports in commercial quantities. A license fee of 1 per cent is payable on the c. & f. value of all imports, whether under specific license or under open general license. Import licenses do not specify the country from which the commodity has to be imported; they merely specify whether payment is to be made in convertible or inconvertible currency. Licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. Imports from Rhodesia, South Africa, South- West Africa, and the Portuguese Monetary Area are not permitted. Exchange for payment of approved imports is granted freely by the Bank of Ghana. With minor exceptions, however, imports must be made on 180 days' credit. Commercial banks usually require importers to make downpayments on the opening of letters of credit for all categories of imports. Many imports are subject to a levy of 11.5 per cent on the combined amount of c.i.f. value, impo rt du ty, and other import charges. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all applications. The following categories of payments are nor- mally authorized in connection with the importa- tion of goods: (1) the buying commission—this must be duly endorsed on the import license and the amount of the authorized commission is deducted from the value of the import license; (2) the transfer of normal bank charge's payable to overseas bankers for import payments, provided that the amount of the bank charges and the buying commission combined do not exceed 4 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods; and (3) the transfer of funds to cover interest on bills up to 6 per cent per annum. Freight charges must be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, pro- vided that the applications are properly docu- mented. Insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghanaian currency with local insurance com- panies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees are limited to 50 per cent of their annual earnings, up to a maximum of £2,500 a year; this quota is intended to cover all personal and fam i ly requirements and commitments outside Ghana, including leave expenses, travel for health purposes, education, gifts, insurance premiums, subscriptions, and donations. Applications for remittances of income by non-Ghanaian self- employed persons are considered on their indi- vidual merits by the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the Bank of Ghana. Nonresident companies are, in principle, per- mitted to transfer abroad freely their net profits, i.e., profits after payment of the prevailing 45 per cent tax on companies and of a 12% per cent withholding tax; at present, however, profit trans- fers are being authorized only on a limited basis.2 The basic annual travel allowance for Ghanai- ans is N0 55 for each person 18 years of age or over and N0 25 for each person under that age. Foreigners resident in Ghana but domiciled else- where in the Sterling Area are allowed up to N0 512 a calendar year out of their personal remittance quota. Exchange for business travel is granted up to N0 30 a day,3 for a maximum of 7 days; not more than two journeys a year are allowed. All residents may buy round-trip tickets in Ghana to the country of destination, subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. Residents of any nationality (except children under 2 years of age, diplomats, and UN personnel) who, for any pur- pose, are leaving Ghana by air or sea, whether temporarily or not, must pay a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the round-trip ticket. Persons leaving Ghana may take with them Ghanaian currency notes and foreign currency notes (including CFA franc notes) together equivalent to N0 122.50, provided that not more than N0 24.50 is taken in any one currency. Ghanaian banknotes may be taken out by any traveler up to N0 24.50 but may be spent only on Ghanaian aircraft and ships. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign currency imported and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia, South Africa, South-West Africa, and the Portuguese Monetary Area are prohibited. There are three open general licenses for exports, covering such articles as trade sam- ples, advertising materials, postage stamps, gifts up to N0 20 in value, and luggage. All other exports require specific licenses from the Control- ler of Imports and Exports prior to shipment. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are exported through the Cocoa Marketing Board. Exporters are required to collect proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered. *On January 24, 1968, the Bank of Ghana announced a new scheme for the transfer of profits. The plan is in two parts, covering accumulated arrears and current earn- ings, respectively. Arrears of profits and dividends relat- ing to periods before Ju ly 1, 1967 are to be cleared gradually according to a system of priorities based on both chronological order of accrual and occupational classification of the firm. A first installment would be cleared in the first half of 1968. For current earnings, applications to transfer profits and dividends, especially from manufacturing, mining, and agricultural companies, are to receive favorable exchange control treatment. 3 Increased to N0 37 a day on March 30, 1968. 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely, provided that their exportation is not prohibited by the issuing country. The import of Ghanaian currency notes is prohibited, with the exception of the re-importation of notes taken out previously by the same traveler and recorded in his passport. Capital Foreign investment in Ghana requires prior approval if repatriation is to be guaranteed. The Capital Investments Act, which was promulgated in April 1963, provides for the granting of special benefits to specified existing investments as well as to new investments. Under the Act approval may be granted to investments that contribute to the development and utilization of productive capacity, the reduction of import requirements, the attainment of a high level of employment, or the acquisition of technical skills by citizens of Ghana. Investments granted "approved status" under this Act obtain a guarantee of the right to transfer profits and liquidation proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allowances, etc., are also available for such investments. The Act also stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expro- priated and that, when approved enterprises are nationalized in the public interest, fair compensa- tion is to be determined either by voluntary agree- ment of the parties or through arbitration by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Devel- opment. A Capital Investments Board, whose principal function is to decide which foreign investments qualify for benefits under the Act, has been established. All outgoing capital movements must be approved; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are con- sidered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been paid. Requests for the transfer of funds representing personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who retire and return to their home country are considered indi- vidually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate documentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. If the amounts GHANA involved are very large, their transfer may be authorized over a period of a few months. Pro- ceeds from the liquidation of real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be directed to rein- vestment in registered government stocks, treasury loans, or treasury bills; the interest accruing on such investments is transferable. Applications for the transfer abroad of funds by emigrants must be accompanied by appropriate documentation and are also considered on their individual merits. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident com- panies controlled by nonresidents require the indi- vidual approval of the central bank. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad with- out express permission. In respect of portfolio investments, residents have to obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate in Ghana gold obtained domestically by washing or mining according to indigenous methods, gold coins that are collectors' pieces, and gold jewelry. Other domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold Mining Products Protection Ordinance. With these exceptions no Ghanaian resident other than an authorized dealer may buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. The Bank of Ghana does not normally license imports of gold other than imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes during 1967 January 1. Special unnumbered licenses ceased to be issued for the importation of goods in com- mercial quantities. January 21. Authorized banks were required to deposit at the Bank of Ghana the full cedi equivalent of amounts received from residents for the purpose of making subsequent transfers abroad. January 23. Two additional open general licenses permitted the unrestricted importation from all sources of certain pharmaceuticals, ferti- 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA lizers and other chemicals, tools, coke, and pig iron. January 23. Further imports were severely restricted by inclusion in the List of Restricted Commodities. These included cocoa, lard, palm oil, coconut oil, travel goods, certain textiles, and phonograph records. January 27. The import of cedi banknotes was prohibited. February 17. The International Monetary Fund concurred in the replacement of the existing cur- rency unit, the cedi, with a new unit called the new cedi. The new cedi was the equivalent of 1.2 old cedis. The move did not involve any appre- ciation or depreciation of Ghana's currency. The par value of new cedi 1 — US$1.40 replaced that of old cedi 1 = US$1.16667. The old cedi ceased to be legal tender on May 23, 1967. March 11. Formal trade sanctions were imposed against Rhodesia. March 17. The Bank of Ghana announced fur ther releases of exchange in respect of arrears. Additional releases were announced on June 16, September 22, and December 22. April 28. Further imports were severely restricted by inclusion in the List of Restricted Commodities. These included grey unbleached cotton fabrics and transistor radios. May 4. Ghana signed the Protocol of Associa- tion for the establishment of a West African Eco- nomic Community. May 19. The Financial Administration Decree, 1967 came into force. Henceforth, no contract providing for the payment of any money by the Government would be considered valid unless it had been approved by the Finance Board. July 1. The servicing of medium-term and long-term debts on suppliers' credit was resumed on the basis of the rescheduling arrangements made with the creditor countries. July 8. The International Monetary Fund con- curred in a change in the par value of the new cedi from N0 1 = US$1.40 to N0 1 = US$0.98. July 8. The open general licenses for imports were extended to include many industrial and agricultural spare parts, chemicals, pharmaceuti- cals, and insecticides. Import duties and sales taxes on meats, fish, milk, rice, flour, sugar, gaso- line, and kerosene were eliminated or greatly reduced. The advance import deposit requirement of 15 per cent was withdrawn. July 8. The Government announced a policy of gradual liberalization of profit and dividend remittances. Certain allocations for invisibles were increased in terms of new cedis to maintain their size in terms of foreign currency. August 5. The withholding tax on profits repa- triated overseas was reduced from 20 to 12V2 per cent, retroactive to July 1. The Government undertook to abolish this tax by July 1970, in three stages. August 5. The export duty on diamonds was abolished, and export duties on timber were reduced. August 18. The import licensing procedures for 1968 and the coverage of the eight open general licenses for that year were announced. With cer- tain exceptions, all imports again had to be made on the basis of 180 days' credit. October 19. The bilateral payments agreement with Eastern Germany was terminated. 168 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0296224 gram of fine gold per Greek Drachma or Dr 30.00 = US$1. The official rates are Dr 29.90 buying, and Dr 30.10 selling, per US$1. Market rates for other curren- cies vary between limits which result from combin- ing the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Greece and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Administration of Control Controls are administered on the policy level by the Ministry of Coordination, the Ministry of Trade, the Currency Committee, and the Foreign Trade Board. Exchange control is implemented and applied, and import approvals are granted, by the Bank of Greece and authorized commercial banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Bank of Greece, authorized banks, and the Ministry of Commerce and, in some cases, require the prior approval of the competent ministry. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise trans- actions and invisibles are made on the basis of the origin or destination of the goods and services involved or in the currency and manner provided for by trade and payments agreements. Settle- ments with countries with which Greece has bila- teral payments agreements are made through con- trolled accounts, with the U.S. dollar as the currency of account.1 Settlements with all other countries are made in any convertible currency or through Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to open with Greek banks convertible Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas or convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited with convertible foreign 1 Greece ma in ta ins b i la teral payments agreements with Braz i l, Bu lga r ia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, Israel, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., United A rab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Most settlements w i th Portu- gal are channeled th rough special accounts; balances on these accounts are settled mon th ly. There is a b i la te ral account for settlement with Chile of trade in specified commodities. exchange or the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies, with authorized payments by residents of Greece for imports or services payable in con- vertible currencies, and with transfers from other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts. They may be debited for payments to residents for current trans- actions, for transfers to other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts, and for the purchase and transfer abroad of any convertible currency. Any withdrawal from drachma accounts for use in Greece and any conversion of foreign exchange withdrawals into drachmas entail the loss of the conversion right of the sums withdrawn. The maximum rate of interest on such accounts is 1.50 per cent per annum. Nonresident investors enjoying the privileges of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 (see section on Capital, below) may also establish time deposits, for a m in imum period of six months and with a m in imum deposit in convertible currencies equiva- lent to US$10,000; balances on these accounts earn interest of between 5 per cent and 6 per cent, and principal and interest are freely transferable at ma tur i ty in the currency of the deposit. All drachma assets of nonresidents other than those in Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts must be declared and are held in blocked accounts. Domes- tic banknotes in excess of Dr 200 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a blocked account, as must certain income accruing in Greece to nonresidents of Greek nationality. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, balances on blocked accounts may be used for such purposes as personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 30,000, purchases of securities officially listed on the stock exchange in Greece, and purchases of real estate in Greece. Amounts of up to Dr 60,000 may be released for remittance by each account holder, provided that his account had been opened before December 31, 1963, that the money deposited was derived from general revenue sources, and that the money was deposited in a blocked account during the current or prior calendar year; amounts of up to Dr 30,000 may be released semiannually for remittance by each account holder, from accounts opened after Janu- ary 1, 1964, provided that the money deposited was derived exclusively from rents. Other amounts 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE of balances on blocked accounts may also be trans- ferred abroad with the prior approval of the Bank of Greece. Blocked balances may be deposited with a commercial bank, where they earn interest at current rates for sight deposits. Greek citizens (including seamen) who are employed abroad may establish convertible for- eign currency accounts with authorized banks in Greece. Balances on these accounts earn interest at 0.75 per cent per annum for sight deposits, 5.75-7.0 per cent per annum for time deposits, and 5.5 per cent per annum for savings bank deposits. Balances on these accounts, including accrued interest, are freely convertible into foreign exchange as long as the holder continues to work abroad, or to serve at sea, and for three years thereafter. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities from all sources and of all commodities originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of cotton textiles from Hong Kong are suspended. All imports, other than those with an invoice value c.i.f. of the equivalent of US$100 or less for which payment will be made through an authorized bank, require approval. For most imports, prior approval is required; however, for certain com- modities, mainly machinery and raw materials, imports may be effected without prior approval. The granting of an import license implies the allo- cation of appropriate foreign exchange. Apart f rom imports for which special licenses are required, two general import procedures (E and D) are applicable to private imports, mainly for statistical purposes. Under procedure E, the approval of an authorized bank is required (1) for imports from countries participating in the Euro- pean Monetary Agreement (EMA) when payment is to be made in a convertible or externally con- vertible European currency; (2) for imports from Canada or the United States when payment is to be made in free dollars, i.e., not on the basis of procurement authorizations under U.S. aid; (3) for imports from countries with which Greece has concluded bilateral payments agreements when payment is to be made through the relevant clear- ing account; and (4) for imports from Cyprus when payment is made in free Cyprus pounds or through one of the EMA countries. No license is 170 necessary under procedure E, but import applica- tions which have been approved by an authorized bank are registered with the Bank of Greece. Under procedure D, an import approval issued by the Bank of Greece is required for imports financed by U.S. aid, for imports other than those covered by procedure E, and for imports for which the importer requests changes in the general provi- sions concerning the terms of shipment, method of settlement, terms of payment, etc. For all goods that do not require a special import license, prices must be approved and pro forma invoices visaed in Greece by a local Chamber of Commerce. Special licenses are required for imports of com- modities in List A (certain luxury items, textiles, automobiles and parts, and certain foodstuffs, including special quality rice) and List B (certain types of machinery and spare parts). Special regulations govern imports of petroleum products similar to those produced by Greek refineries and imports of certain other items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, narcotics, wheat and flour, sulphur, and motion-picture films, as well as barter transactions based on clearing agree- ments. For purposes of applying regulations concerning payments for imports and advance deposit require- ments, all private imports are classified in nine lists (P-3, P-6, F, F-50/1-3, and F-100/1-3). Pay- ments for imports may be made by letter of credit, by cash against shipping documents, or by accep- tance of time draf ts (which is permitted only for goods in Lists P-3 and P-6, the time limit being three months for List P-3 and one year for List P-6, except for machinery and spare parts, for which the time limit is three years). The Ministry of Commerce may authorize longer payment periods and may also approve deferred payments for imports not included in any one of the nine lists. When time draf ts are accepted, a personal written undertaking amounting to 4 per cent (List P-6) or 8 per cent (List P-3) of the amount of the draft is required as a guarantee that the payment will be made within the prescribed time limits. When a letter of credit is opened, the importer is required to deposit in drachmas the whole amount of the credit with the intervening bank. In addition, for those imports included in Lists F-100/1-3, fur ther cash deposits of 19-40 per cent of the c.i.f. value are required as security for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution import duties and other taxes. For imports under procedure E, this deposit must be made when the import approval is obtained; for imports under procedure D, the deposit must be made within 20 days of the import approval. Advance deposits are not required for imports for which payment is to be made by acceptance of time drafts. When payments for imports are to be made against sight drafts, advance deposits in cash are required for private imports included in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3.2 Advance deposits are the same for all countries. They are calculated on the c.i.f. invoice value and consist of two compo- nents: a prepayment required when applying for an import approval and an advance (security) against import duties and other taxes. Security deposits, however, are not required for capital goods and spare parts that are exempt from import duty by virtue of the laws governing investment of foreign or domestic capital. The rates of deposit for each list of imports are set out below. List F-50/1 List F-50/2 List F-50/3 List F- 100/1 List F- 100/2 List F- 100/3 Prepayment Security Total In per cent of invoice value 50 20 70 45 14.5 59.5 35 7 42 1403 100 40 90 29 119 70 14 84 For goods imported and cleared through cus- toms in the Dodecanese Islands, the advance against import duties and other taxes is reduced to one half of the above-mentioned percentages. When imports are financed with U.S. aid funds, a further deposit of 10 per cent must be made in cash or by bank guarantee and in favor of the Greek State, in addition to any deposit as specified above. All deposits must be made with the inter- vening bank (1) at the time the import approval is obtained, for imports under procedure E, and (2) within 10 days (for Athens and the Piraeus area) or 20 days (for the provinces) of obtaining the import approval, for imports under procedure D. Upon delivery of the shipping documents, the importer's bank issues a permit for the customs 2 Commodities not included in these lists, or in Lists A, B, P-3, P-6, or F, are subject to the advance deposit requirements applicable to goods in List F-50/3. No advance deposit is required for products in Lists F, P-3, and P-6. 3 The total of prepayment and security deposit for ham and European-type cheese is 98 per cent. GREECE clearance of the goods, and advance deposits are refunded; however, for goods included in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3 the deposits must be retained by the commercial bank for a period of two months from the date on which they were made. Certain companies, public agencies, and organi- zations that have been designated as public service institutions are exempt from the advance deposit requirements. Advance payments may be made to foreign sup- pliers for all imports against delivery of shipping documents or against a letter of undertaking issued by a foreign bank. Special regulations govern imports by state agencies, public entities, and pub- lic utility companies. Except for goods in List P-6, which may be shipped prior to approval, goods must be shipped within six months and arrive in Greece within nine months after the date of import approval. Final settlement of the value of imported goods must take place within 45 days following the date of arrival at the first Greek port; however, settlement must take place within 90 days follow- ing the date of arrival for goods in List P-6, and within 60 days following the date of import approval for goods in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval, but this is granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain other transactions. Transfers abroad on account of spec- ified categories of insurance (shipping, aviation, merchandise transport, and fire) or reinsurance (accident and life) are authorized by the Bank of Greece up to specified percentages of the amounts owed. Greek residents going abroad for family reasons, tourist travel, or business are entitled to US$200 for each trip and for any number of trips a year; instead of this allowance, tourists participating in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. Exporters and manufacturers are allowed US$20 a day for a maximum of 45 days when they travel to the United States, Canada, or the Far East; for all other countries the allowance is US$15 a day for a maximum of 30 days. Requests for larger amounts or from other businessmen, commercial 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE representatives, etc., are submitted to the Foreign Exchange Subcommittee. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a max imum of Dr 200 in Greek banknotes. Greek nationals, not including those resident abroad, are required to declare all domestic and foreign bank- notes and other valuables taken with them upon leaving Greece; no declaration is required from holders of foreign passports. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports require individual licenses, but most exports are free of quantitative limitation. Export proceeds must be surrendered within 150 days from the date of export of the goods; in special cases, how- ever, the authorities are empowered to extend this period up to two years for manufactures and up to one year for other commodities. The Ministry of Commerce may license barter transactions involving the export of tobacco, certain types of fru i t, or wine; such transactions are permitted only with Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be surrendered. Exchange proceeds from shipping are exempt from the surrender requirement, but shipowners have to pay for sup- plies, repairs, etc., and any taxes and fees, and must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Dr 200 in Greek banknotes in denominations of Dr 50 and Dr 100 only. Any surplus is deposited in a blocked account with the Bank of Greece; subject to prior approval by the Bank, the surplus may be taken out on departure or spent in Greece on per- sonal financial requirements. Greek residents returning to Greece must declare the foreign exchange in their possession. Nonresident travelers of foreign nationality may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it at the time of entering the country, and nonresidents holding Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange only if they intend, when 172 leaving Greece, to take out again foreign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. Capital Commercial banks and investment banks may freely borrow convertible currencies abroad, pro- vided that they lend corresponding amounts as foreign currency loans for periods of at least five years to productive enterprises established in Greece. All other investments in Greece by non- residents are subject to approval. Such approval is automatic for purchases of real estate for per- sonal use. Under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53, approved foreign investments which aim at the promotion of national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of Greece may be granted preferential treatment. Under Law No. 4171/61, as amended by Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, fur ther privileges are provided for foreign capital participating in investment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 60 million in value. More- over, Legislative Decree No. 4256/62 provides additional repatriation facilities for foreign invest- ments which promote exports. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Approved investments according to the provisions of the legislation mentioned above may not be repatriated before one year from the date the enterprise begins to operate productively and in no case before one year from the date the capital was imported. (2) The repatriation of foreign capital may not exceed 10 per cent a year of the amount of capital imported. The repatriation of dividends on equity capital and of interest on loan capital may not exceed 12 per cent a year and 10 per cent a year, respectively. (3) Under the pro- visions of Law No. 4171/61, profits on approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad in amounts not exceeding 6 per cent a year of the repatriated portion of the capital, provided, how- ever, that the amount of profits transferred shall not exceed 8 per cent of the foreign exchange earn- ings of the enterprise from the sale of its products abroad. (4) For investments made under Legisla- tive Decree No. 2687/53 that are not covered by Law No. 4171/61, the transfer of profits is related to the residual capital remaining in Greece, and the transfer privilege expires as soon as all capital has been repatriated. (5) Under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, the repatriation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of capital and profits of foreign investments approved under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can exceed the rates specified in (2) above, up to 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its products abroad. Also, foreign loans approved under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can be repatriated at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent, provided that the amount of the loan does not exceed double the value of the share capital and that the amounts repatriated do not exceed 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the corporation. Deviations from the general regulations may be approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and mining products or invested in enterprises of special importance to the economy. Specified foreign short-term investment may also be granted preferential treatment in respect of the repatriation of capital and the trans- fer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval. Gold Residents may freely purchase specified gold coins (mainly sovereigns) from the Bank of Greece, through licensed stockbrokers, at prices set by the central bank; purchasers must sign a statement to the effect that the coins will only be resold to the Bank of Greece or to licensed stock- brokers. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed prior to December 22, 1965 may sell these anonymously and without formality to the Bank of Greece or to an author- ized bank at the official price. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange require a special license issued by the Ministry of Com- merce. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported freely by commercial banks and other residents when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Changes during 1967 May 1. In accordance with the Treaty of Asso- ciation with the European Economic Community (EEC ), a fu r ther ( fou r th) reduction by 10 per cent was made in the customs duties on manufac- GREECE tured goods imported from EEC countries which are not produced in Greece and are subject to the 12-year schedule adopted under the treaty. The advance deposit requirements for imports from all countries were reduced for the commodities affected by the tariff reduction, from 49 to 42 per cent for List F-50/3 and from 98 to 84 per cent for List F-100/3. May 1. Greek enterprises required the prior approval of the Ministry of Industry to employ foreign experts or technicians, in order to be able to obtain foreign exchange allocations for their remuneration from the Bank of Greece. May 11. Greek nationals, not including those normally resident abroad or crews of ships and aircraft on actual duty, were required, when leav- ing Greece, to declare all Greek and foreign cur- rency, checks, securities, works of art, and other valuables they were taking out. August 2. New legislation favoring the estab- lishment of foreign enterprises in Greece became effective. Foreign firms and their foreign employees were granted certain tax and import duty privileges. August 22. The authorities were empowered to introduce compensatory import levies on agricul- tural commodities. September 16. Greek citizens employed abroad, including sailors, could open freely convertible accounts in foreign currencies with authorized banks in Greece. Balances on these accounts, and accrued interest, were freely transferable until three years af ter the return to Greece of the holder. October 11. The house purchasing scheme for Greek nationals employed in specified European countries and remitting their savings to Greece was extended to include Greek seamen who receive their wages in foreign exchange. October 21. Greek nationals residing abroad could transfer to their country of residence up to the equivalent of US$200 a month from pension payments received in Greece in Greek currency; amounts in excess of this limit had to be deposited in blocked accounts. November 1. In accordance with the Treaty of Association with the EEC, a fur ther ( th i rd) reduc- 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE tion by 5 per cent was made in the customs duties on goods subject to the 22-year schedule. The advance deposit required for goods on List F-50/2 was reduced from 63 to 59.5 per cent, and that for goods on List F-100/2 from 126 to 119 per cent. November 28. Foreign tourists leaving Greece through Evzoni on the Yugoslav border could reconvert drachma notes up to Dr 2,000 each into foreign banknotes, upon declaration that they had brought in sufficient foreign exchange. At all other places of exit where branches of the Bank of Greece are established, they could reconvert up to Dr 3,000. Previously, nonresident travelers could not reconvert Greek banknotes upon exit through Evzoni. 174 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Guatemalan Quetzal or Q 1.00 = US$1. The official rates are Q 1.00 buying, and Q 1.01 selling, per US$1. The Bank of Guatemala quotes exchange rates for certain other currencies x on the basis of their rates in the New York market. On January 27, 1947, Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Guatemala (Exchange Department) under the direction of the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange transactions of the public sector are car- ried out exclusively through the Bank of Guate- mala; those of the private sector are carried out through the medium of authorized banks for the account of the Monetary Stabilization Fund main- tained by the Bank of Guatemala. Prescription of Currency All exchange transactions must be carried out through banks. Payments to Costa Rica, El Sal- vador, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles are normally settled in Guate- malan quetzales through the Camara de Compen- sation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse estab- lished by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. The Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala, however, is empowered to author- ize the sale of currencies of other Central Ameri- can countries to make payments to the Central American area. There are no obligations prescrib- ing the currency for payments to and from other countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required except for imports of maps of Guatemala, explosives, poul- try, and wheat flour. Within 8 days after 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. confirmation, importers must register with the Exchange Department any firm order to import merchandise. (Imports originating from Central American countries and included in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integra- tion are exempt from this requirement.) Import- ers must effect their registered imports during the 90-day validity of the registration. All remittances abroad to pay for imports require exchange licenses, which are granted freely by the Exchange Department; the exchange is granted by the authorized banks upon submission of the registration form and the shipping docu- ments. Checks denominated in quetzales are authorized freely for payment for specified imports from Central American countries. Payments for imports which have to be fully or partially pre- paid must be made by letter of credit. When it is impossible to establish a letter of credit and the prepayment exceeds Q 1,000, a deposit equal to 25 per cent of the amount of foreign exchange requested must be made with the Bank of Guate- mala or an authorized bank in cash or in govern- ment bonds by importers who are not established importers in the country or who are unable to provide sufficient proof of the nature of the trans- action; the deposit is refunded when the goods arrive in Guatemala. Importers of merchandise for which payment must be made in cash or in installments, and importers of merchandise on consignment, must present the original shipping documents usually required by the Guatemalan customs for the clearance of goods. Authorizations to withdraw imports from cus- toms must be obtained from the Exchange Depart- ment or an authorized bank, except for imports whose value does not exceed Q 50, household goods, samples, printed advertising material, and those imports originating in Central American countries and included in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration. The Exchange Department and the authorized banks issue such authorizations without delay. The cus- toms officials may refuse clearance of goods if discrepancies are found between the information contained in the authorization issued by the Exchange Department and in the import docu- ments. For the specified imports from Central 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA American countries, the importer must complete, at either the Exchange Department or the customs office, a special form required by the Exchange Department, giving a description of the merchan- dise to be imported and the date on which he made the advance payment or the date on which he undertook to pay in the future. If these forms are completed at the customs office, they must be forwarded daily to the Exchange Department. A surcharge of 100 per cent of the customs duty may be applied to products originating in or imported from countries with which Guatemala has an unfavorable trade balance. On December 31, 1967, this surcharge applied to certain imports from 28 countries.2 This surcharge is waived if the goods are transported in Guatemalan ships. Moreover, all imports from other areas which are included in the agreed uniform tariff list of the countries participating in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration are exempt from the surcharge. Payment for Invisibles All transfers abroad on account of current invisibles require authorization by the Exchange Department, mainly for the purposes of checking capital transactions. Payments of up to Q 1,000 to El Salvador or up to Q 200 to Costa Rica, Honduras, and Nicaragua do not require authori- zation by the Exchange Department. Requests for foreign exchange for payments for current invisibles must be supported by such docu- ments as may be required by the Exchange Depart- ment to verify that the operation is genuine. The sale of foreign exchange for most categories of current invisibles, including remittances of income from and repayments of registered foreign loans and investments, is authorized freely. For certain payments for current invisibles, exchange is sold up to established limits; in some cases, requests in excess of these limits are approved. There is an exchange allowance equivalent to a maximum of Q 2,500 a person in any one year for tourist travel abroad. Minors not traveling alone are entitled to half the adult allowance. The exchange 8 Australia, Borneo, Ceylon, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Finland, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Japan, Malagasy Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Netherlands, Pakistan, Philip- pines, Portugal, Somalia, Sudan, Thailand, United Arab Republic, United Kingdom, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 176 allocation for travelers on business is Q 750 a person for journeys to British Honduras and the Mexican border towns, and Q 2,500 for journeys to other parts of the world. Subject to the Q 2,500 annual limit, exchange is granted up to the equivalent of Q 50 for each day of planned tourist travel abroad; exchange in excess of this daily maximum is granted when an additional allotment is considered justified. To ensure that both limits are observed for tourist travel, the traveler, when purchasing travel exchange, must lodge with the Bank of Guatemala a guarantee deposit in quetzales equivalent to the foreign exchange purchased; the deposit is refunded upon return to Guatemala, provided that the traveler either submits proof of having stayed abroad for at least the number of days for which he purchased the exchange or returns foreign exchange corre- sponding to the number of days of the shortfall. All international air passages are subject to a tax of 5 per cent; furthermore, such internal air pas- sages (with the exception of those for travel within Central America) are subject to a tax of Q 3 for a one-way ticket or Q 5 for a round-trip ticket. The exchange allocation for remittances abroad for family maintenance is Q 250 a month for each relative (Q 200 for those under 18 years of age), up to a maximum of Q 700 a month for each beneficiary family. Foreign technical personnel employed in Guatemala may remit abroad up to two thirds of their salaries if their families reside abroad, or up to one third if their families reside in Guatemala. Foreign technicians leaving the country permanently may, subject to individual approval, transfer their savings up to the full amount of their earnings in Guatemala. Limits are also imposed on remittances for students' expenses abroad. The export of Guatemalan banknotes and coins is not prohibited; however, Guatemalan banknotes and coins received from abroad are not converted by the Bank of Guatemala unless they come from Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, or Nica- ragua. For these countries, the Bank of Guate- mala guarantees monthly conversions into U.S. dollars up to the following limits: Costa Rica, Q 125,000; El Salvador, Q 400,000; Honduras, Q 300,000; and Nicaragua, Q 125,000. There are no regulations prohibiting the export of foreign banknotes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license from the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala. Exports to Central American countries of goods included in the General Treaty for Central Ameri- can Economic Integration are exempt from this requirement; for these goods, the exporter must complete a special form required by the Exchange Department presenting evidence that the export proceeds have been sold to an authorized bank. The application for an export license must be accompanied by a full description of the nature of the transaction, including the terms and method of payment. The Exchange Department issues licen- ses only if certain conditions have been met: (1) for exports paid for in advance or in cash, it requires evidence that the export proceeds have been sold to an authorized bank; (2) for exports on credit, it requires an undertaking to sell the relevant exchange to an authorized bank within 90 days of the date the license is issued; and (3) for exports on consignment, it requires the export- er's certified declaration showing the estimated value of the export and his undertaking to sell the relevant exchange to an authorized bank within a period not exceeding 180 days after the issuance of the license. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be declared and surrendered. The import of Gua- temalan and foreign banknotes is not restricted. The purchase of Salvadoran banknotes by author- ized banks is limited to 0 500 a person. Capital All foreign capital investments in Guatemala must be declared and registered with the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala. All invest- ment by foreign, domestic, or foreign-controlled companies in the construction of private housing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy; such investment may be limited to a specified over-all amount a year, it must meet certain minimum quality and financing standards, and the sales value of a housing unit must not exceed Q 6,000. All outgoing capital payments require exchange licenses, which, like those for the transfer of profits and dividends, are granted freely for remittances of registered foreign investments and amortization of foreign loans. GUATEMALA Transfers abroad of resident-owned capital are not permitted, with the exception of transfers for the purpose of investing in, or financing of, commer- cial, agricultural, or industrial firms in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form in Guatemala. Residents other than banks may sell gold coins and gold bars only to the Bank of Guatemala or to banks licensed for this purpose by the Monetary Board. .The Bank of Guatemala is obliged to purchase all gold offered to it. The Bank also sells gold to domestic artistic and industrial users, in accordance with directives of the Monetary Board. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes during 1967 January 1. In accordance with Legislative Decree No. 1627 of December 9, 1966, certain taxes were imposed that were to be levied during 1967 only. These included a withholding tax of 10 per cent on dividends, profits, and bonuses paid in 1967 by natural or juridical persons to persons resident abroad; a tax of 5 per cent on all international air passages sold in 1967; a tax of 5 per cent on the first sale in Guatemala in 1967 of an imported passenger automobile; and a tax of 15 per cent on the local list price of passenger automobiles of 1966 or 1967 models imported by private persons. January 3. A limit of Q 50 for each day of planned foreign travel, up to a total of Q 2,500 a person a year, was imposed on foreign exchange sales for tourist travel abroad. The special allo- cations for travel to neighboring countries and the Caribbean area were abolished. A guarantee deposit was imposed in an amount equivalent to the value of the exchange purchased, to be made at the Bank of Guatemala at the time the exchange was purchased. The deposit was to be returned upon re-entry. January 10. The 100 per cent guarantee deposit required on purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad was waived for travel by delega- tions or groups that were organized with the sup- port of airline companies or travel agencies. February 18. The Bank of Guatemala requested that all Central American banks refrain from buy- ing quetzales for conversion into U.S. dollars. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Republic of Guinea has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency (introduced on March 1, 1960) is the Guinean Franc, defined as a mone- tary unit containing 0.0036 gram of fine gold. It corresponds to GF 50 = 1 French franc and GF 246.853 = US$1. The official buying and sell- ing rates are GF 247 and GF 255 per US$1, re- spectively. These rates aptyly to all transactions and include a bank commission. Clearing account transactions under bilateral payments agreements are carried out on the basis of GF 246.853 per US$1. Administration of Control The Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea a is the only authority in exchange control matters; this authority is carried out through the Exchange Control Office of the Bank. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers to any other bank or institution. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require individual licenses from the Exchange Control Office. Import and export licenses are issued, within the framework of an annual program, by the Ministry of Foreign Commerce and Banks (the Office of the Director of Foreign Trade) after applications have been screened by the National Economic Commission; licenses are subject to approval by the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agree- ments.2 Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies.3 1 In Janua ry 1968, the Minister of State for Financial A f fa i rs was charged w i th supervision over the Central Bank; previously, the Bank was under the supervision of the Minister of Foreign Commerce and Banks. On the same date, the M in is try of Foreign Commerce and Banks was replaced by the M in is try of Commerce, Transportation, and Telecommunications. 2 Guinea ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements w i th the fo l low ing countries: Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, Ma in land China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Ghana, Hungary, North Korea, Lebanon, Mali, 178 Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies and Nonresident Transferable Accounts in Guinean Francs. The opening of a nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Exchange Control Office. Imports and Import Payments There is no list of prohibited imports, but cer- tain imports are not being licensed. All imports, other than those for the Seven-Year Plan, require individual licenses, which are issued by the Min- istry of Foreign and Domestic Trade, after appli- cations have been screened and approved by the National Economic Commission. Once an import license has been issued, authorization for the cor- responding payment is granted by the Exchange Control Office. Imports by foreign concession holders require import licenses for statistical pur- poses only and are not restricted. Most imports into Guinea are made within the framework of an annual import program. This program is prepared by the Ministry of Foreign and Domestic Trade on the basis of the country's import needs, the domestic production possibilities of import substitutes, and experience with the pre- vious year's import program. The program requires the approval of the National Economic Commission, which takes into consideration the sources of imports and the availability of conver- tible currencies and of balances under payments agreements. Certain items are imported outside the import program. These are goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the exchange reserves of Guinea—e.g., imports made by foreign concession holders (the Fria Company and the Sifrag Company) and by foreign embas- Morocco, Poland, Ruman ia, Sierra Leone, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, North Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia. There are also inoperative payments agreements with Cameroon, Liberia, and Senegal and a clearing arrange- ment with a private firm established in Switzerland. 8 These currencies are listed as Algerian dinars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Congo zaires, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Ghanaian new cedis, Italian lire, Libyan pounds, Moroccan dir- hams, Ne ther lands guilders, Nigerian pounds, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Sierra Leonean leones, Spanish pesetas, Sudanese pounds, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution sies—and goods for the Seven-Year Plan. All commercial imports other than those by the Fria Company and the Sifrag Company are made by state enterprises that specialize in various types of commerce. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the author- ization of the Exchange Control Office, irrespective of the country to which the payment is to be made. Payments for freight and insurance in connec- tion with imports are authorized as part of the import license. No exchange is granted for other types of insurance with companies abroad. There is no basic allocation for tourist travel; each appli- cation is considered individually. There is a basic allocation for business travel expenses (other than transportation) of GF 15,000 a trip. Govern- ment officials on official missions are permitted an allowance of GF 2,000 a day if they travel in Africa and GF 2,500 a day if they travel outside Africa. Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equivalent of GF 60,000 for each pilgrimage and, in addition, up to GF 190,000 to pay for fares connected with the pilgrimage. In cases of serious illness, provided that a doctor's certificate is sub- mitted, Guinean nationals are granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or are permitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Individual authorization is required for the payment in Guinea of all fares for foreign travel. Payments for family support may be made up to GF 10,000 a month for each beneficiary, whether child or adult. For officially recognized study abroad, the student's relatives may transfer the equivalent of the amount of a government scholarship, i.e., GF 22,500 a month. Students starting their studies abroad are granted an additional foreign exchange allowance of up to GF 30,000. The Foreign Investment Law guar- antees that at least 20 per cent of the net annual profits of approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad; the percentage actually per- mitted to be transferred depends on the agreement concluded between the enterprise concerned and the Government. In addition to transfers under other regulations, foreign planters are permitted to transfer abroad GF 4 per kilogram of pine- apples exported, GF 3 per kilogram of bananas GUINEA exported, and GF 2 per kilogram of citrus fruit exported. Expatriate workers employed by the public sector in Guinea may transfer abroad 30 per cent of their net monthly salaries if they are married and 20 per cent if they are single. In practice, however, many expatriate workers employed by the public sector are permitted to transfer up to 40 per cent of their net monthly salaries. Expatriate workers employed by the private sector may transfer abroad 25 per cent of their net monthly salaries if married and 15 per cent if single. The export of Guinean currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds The Ministry of Foreign and Domestic Trade establishes an annual export program, which requires the approval of the National Economic Commission. All exports require individual licenses in order (1) to assure the implementation of the export program (particularly in respect of commitments under bilateral trade agreements); (2) to permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e.g., mining companies must pay export taxes of 6 per cent on the value of ores exported); (3) to prevent short- ages of goods needed for domestic consumption; and (4) to prevent the export of capital. Special authorization from designated agencies is required in addition to the export license for the following commodities: wild animals (dead or alive), edi- ble animals, articles of historical or ethnographical interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. An export license is granted only when the exporter assumes the obligation to surrender the proceeds immediately after they are collected. Exports other than those effected by the Fria Company and the Sifrag Company are made by a state institution, Guinexport. Foreign planters are granted special transfer privileges related to the quantity of pineapples, bananas, or citrus fruits exported (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). All export proceeds must be surrendered; how- ever, the Fria Company and the Sifrag Company are allowed to retain 66% per cent and 25 per cent, respectively, of their export earnings. 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The import of foreign banknotes and travelers checks is permitted freely, subject to declaration on entry, but both must be surrendered within 24 hours after entry. Nonresident travelers may repurchase and re-export the foreign exchange declared upon entry, after deduction of their local expenditures; this deduction cannot be less than the equivalent of US$20 for each day of their stay, unless evi- dence can be produced to show that actual expen- diture was less. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers require authorization. Out- ward capital transfers by Guinean nationals are prohibited. The Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 50/ AN/62) of April 5, 1962, which replaced a more restrictive one of May 1960, provides guarantees against nationalization for foreign investments in the industrial and mining sectors; it also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment appli- cable to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and proceeds accru- ing from the liquidation of such investments. Small and medium-sized enterprises in which at least GF 150 million is invested over a 3-year period may receive exemptions for a period of 7 to 10 years; exemptions for up to 25 years may be granted on long-term investments of particular importance to the Guinean economy. The actual conditions under which foreign investments may be made are subject to negotiations within the terms of this law. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guinea for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jew- elry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1967 March 29. Travelers were required to surrender all imported foreign currency within 24 hours of entry. Nonresident travelers could repurchase and re-export the amount surrendered, after deduction of their local expenditure, which was normally assumed to amount to the equivalent of at least US$20 a day. April 13. The bilateral payments agreement with Rumania, which was signed on December 1, 1966, entered into force. May 4. Guinea signed the Protocol of Associa- tion for the establishment of a West African Eco- nomic Community. 180 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Guyana Dollar or G$2 = US$1. The Guyana dollar has a fixed relationship to sterling of G$4.80 — <£ 1 and is freely convertible into sterling at this rate, subject to banking commissions; the Bank of Guyana charges a commission of %6 of 1 per cent for both buying and selling. The banks in Guyana base the rates for currencies other than sterling on the current London market rates. The central bank normally deals only in sterling and U.S. dollars. Guyana accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as f rom December 27,1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Governor-General and the Minister of Finance, who have entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. Authority for approving normal import payments and providing allocations of for- eign exchange for other current payments is dele- gated to the banks authorized for this purpose; certain payments in respect of current invisibles of a personal nature, however, require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the Minis- try of Trade, Shipping, and Civil Aviation. Prescription of Currency Guyana is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements broadly similar to those of the United King- dom. Authorized settlements with residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Authorized pay- ments, including payments for imports, by resi- dents of Guyana to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in any non-Sterling Area currency, in ster- ling to the credit of an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts from countries outside the Ster- ling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in any non-Sterling Area currency (in any speci- fied currency x for exports proceeds) or in sterling or Guyana dollars from an External Account. Special regulations apply to payments to and receipts from Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may maintain accounts in Guyana dollars in Guyana. These are treated in the same way as the Guyana dollar accounts of residents of Guyana; thus, no exchange control permission is required for transfers within the Sterling Area. There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana or other parts of the Sterling Area: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for nonresidents of the Sterling Area. They may be credited with all authorized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents of the Sterling Area and with trans- fers from other External Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited for pay- ments for any purpose to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., capital proceeds). These accounts may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited. Imports subject to individual licensing are speci- fied in a "negative list"; they include coffee, sugar, certain vegetables, cereals, meat, poultry, dairy products, fats, copra, vegetable and animal oils, petroleum products and other fuels, building materials, gold, diamonds and jewelry, firearms, grain-milling machinery, and appliances. The 1The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schil- lings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA granting of individual licenses and the conditions attached thereto depend on current policy. Other goods may be imported under an open general license applicable to all countries of origin except the Soviet countries and Mainland China;2 for certain garments, the open general license is not applicable to Japan. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Exchange control forms have to be completed only for transactions exceed- ing G$240. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to other countries of the Sterling Area are permitted freely without limit. All payments for invisibles to countries outside the Sterling Area require approval, which is given freely, provided that no illegal capital transfer seems to be involved. Standard allocations are applied to certain payments of a personal nature on an annual basis, e.g., for travel abroad (G$666), for education at schools abroad (G$3,360 for each child), for education at uni- versities and comparable institutions (G$4,800 for each student), and for family maintenance (G$4,800). Travelers going abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$100; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. In addition, Sterling Area or non-Sterling Area currency notes to the value of G$50 may be taken out as part of any travel exchange allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of rice may only be made by the Rice Marketing Board. Most exports are free of export license, but are supervised by the authorized banks and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in specified currencies (see footnote 1), surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be completed only for exports exceeding G$2,000 in value. 2 The countries of origin to which the open general license does not apply are listed as Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. 182 Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in the specified currencies on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any currency notes freely. Capital Residents of the Sterling Area may freely invest in Guyana and repatriate their capital at any time in a Sterling Area currency. Nonresidents of the Sterling Area must obtain "approved status" for new investments at the time of investment in order to be able to repatriate capital. Such approval is normally given for direct investments in new proj- ects that would benefit Guyana or the balance of payments of the Sterling Area; it carries with it an assurance that profits may be remitted and that upon liquidation of the investment the proceeds, including any capital increments, may be repatri- ated in fu ll in non-Sterling Area currency. The export of capital to non-Sterling Area coun- tries by residents is not normally permitted. Spe- cified currencies obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade, Shipping, and Civil Aviation; such licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and industrial users. Changes during 1967 During the year, a number of commodities were added to the "negative list" of commodities subject to specific import licensing; the import of a few of these was prohibited with effect from January 1, 1968. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution February 13. An initial par value for the Guyana dollar of G$1.71429 = US$1 was agreed with the International Monetary Fund. April 10. The Bank of Guyana took over the administration of exchange control from the Ministry of Finance. October 13. The 100 per cent cash margin deposit requirement for the opening of import letters of credit was abolished. November 20. The par value of the Guyana dollar was changed from G$ 1.71429 = US$1 to G$2.00 = US$ 1. GUYANA 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.177734 gram of fine gold per Haitian Gourde or G 5.00 = US$1. This rate is applicable to all transactions. Exchange transac- tions by commercial banks with the public are subject to small banking commissions. There are no controls or restrictions on foreign transactions. On December 22, 1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or cur- rency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Imports and Import Payments Although the law provides for the imposition of quantitative restrictions on imports, none has so far been imposed. Imports of certain types of foot- wear and of a few other items are controlled for other than balance of payments reasons. Pay- ments abroad may be made freely. Certain imports are subject, in addition to the applicable import duty, to surcharges of 4, 5, or 6 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Exports and Export Proceeds A few exports require licenses. Gold coins, bullion, etc., may be exported only by the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. No exchange control requirements are applied to proceeds from invisibles. A regulation, which is seldom applied, prohibits the export and import of U.S. banknotes in denominations of over $20. Capital Incoming and outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. Under a decree of June 27, 1957, revising a law of August 14, 1952, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep in the form of domestic assets up to 80 per cent of deposits collected from residents of Haiti. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the National Bank. Commercial imports, however, of articles containing a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license. Changes during 1967 No significant changes took place during 1967. 184 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Honduran Lempira, or Honduran Lempiras 2.00 = US$1. The official rates are L 1.98 buy- ing, and L 2.02 selling, per US$1. Banknotes and coins in Costa Rican colones, Guatemalan quet- zales, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salvadoran colones are purchased at parity rates minus an official exchange commission of 1 per cent and sold at parity rates. Honduras has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Exchange may be purchased from local banks without restric- tions; however, for statistical purposes, buyers are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Earners of foreign exchange wishing to negotiate the exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank of Honduras or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. On August 19, 1950, Honduras notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beginning July 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method of cur- rency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Honduran lempiras through the Camara de Compensation Centro- americana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Payments to Mexico may also be settled in Hon- duran lempiras through the clearinghouse. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely; however, for statistical purposes, buyers of exchange are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control, and the foreign exchange may be retained or used for international transactions. Those wishing to negotiate their exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital Capital payments are not subject to exchange control. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Honduras for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Econ- omy; for most articles, these are granted freely. Changes during 1967 May 2. The official exchange commission of l/2 of 1 per cent was abolished on sales of banknotes and coins in Costa Rican colones, Guatemalan quetzales, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salvadoran colones. 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.146631 gram of fine gold per Hong Kong Dollar or HK$6.06061 = US$1. The exchange rate system comprises official rates and free market rates; as far as rates for the U.S. dollar are concerned, these are, in practice, within 1 per cent of the par value. On December 31, 1967, rates in the official market were Is. 41%2d. sterling buying, and Is. 4%d. sterling selling, per HK$1, or HK$6.0iy2 buying, and HK$6.1011/16 selling, per US$1; rates in the free market on that date were HK$6.06 buying, and HK$6.07% sell- ing, per US$1. The official market rates are those of authorized banks, based on the sterling-Hong Kong dollar rate (agreed informally by the three note-issuing banks with the Hong Kong Exchange Fund) and the sterling-foreign currency rates in the London foreign exchange market. The official rates apply to all transactions in Hong Kong dollars against sterling, to the pro- ceeds in U.S. dollars of exports not of local or neighboring origin, and to most authorized non- dollar transactions. The free market rates apply to other transactions. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Financial Secretary of the Colony. Some 50 banks are authorized to conduct exchange transactions within the framework of the local regulations and subject to specific or general approval of the local control. These authorized banks are permitted to conclude exchange transactions only at the official market rates. The free market is operated by other banks and financial institutions. Import and export licensing is carried out by the Director of Com- merce and Industry. Prescription of Currency The Colony of Hong Kong is part of the Sterling Area, and all settlements except those through the free market must be made by the method and in the currency prescribed in the exchange regula- tions, as described in the following paragraphs. Settlements for exports to and imports from other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Licenses are required, 186 however, for all payments made from Hong Kong to, or received in Hong Kong from, residents of other parts of the Sterling Area, except that authorized banks may freely make or receive such payments in respect of the following: (1) bona fide trade between Hong Kong and other Sterling Area territories; (2) payments between authorized banks or their branches in the Sterling Area for the purpose of transferring banking funds to an authorized bank or for the settlement of the exchange transactions of an authorized bank; (3) bulk payments in favor of banks or recognized dealers in Hong Kong when the payments are for bona fide fam i ly remittances and no individual payment exceeds HK$8,000; and (4) other pay- ments not exceeding £500 or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies. Payment in Hong Kong dollars for exports to Mainland China, the Republic of China, and Macao is permitted; imports from these territories may be paid for in Hong Kong dollars (but not to the credit of an External Account; see section on Nonresident Accounts, below) without exchange control approval. The proceeds of exports ;to all other countries outside the Sterling Area must be received in Hong Kong dollars from an External Account, in sterling from an External Account held with an authorized bank in the Sterling Area, in a foreign currency emanating from outside Hong Kong and freely exchangeable for sterling or Hong Kong dollars (the foreign currency must be sur- rendered to an authorized bank), or by interna- tional money order issued outside the Sterling Area; however, U.S. dollar proceeds of exports to the dollar area or to the Republic of Korea of goods originating in Mainland China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao may be sold in the free market to the extent of the f.o.b. value of the goods; proceeds from freight and insurance payments have to be surrendered to an authorized bank. Payment for imports from countries outside the Sterling Area (except Mainland China, the Republic of China, and Macao, as noted above) may be made by crediting sterling or Hong Kong dollars to an External Account or in any foreign currency. For merchanting transactions by Hong Kong firms in goods bought from and sold to countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution outside the Sterling Area, outgoing payments may be made in a Sterling Area currency to the credit of an External Account or in any foreign currency, provided that the incoming payment is received in a Sterling Area currency from an External Account or in a foreign currency from outside Hong Kong that is freely exchangeable for sterling or Hong Kong dollars. Subject to certain require- ments, including the submission of evidence that the local regulations of the country of destination have been complied with, authorized banks may, on application by merchants in Hong Kong under- taking a transaction in goods for their own account, make payment to nonresidents of the Sterling Area for direct imports into other territories of the Sterling Area of goods originating outside the Sterling Area. Such payments may be made in sterling or Hong Kong dollars to an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency, provided that such currency has not been acquired in the Hong Kong free market. Nonresident Accounts The treatment of nonresident accounts distin- guishes between those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area (their accounts being treated in the same manner as accounts of residents of Hong Kong), those of recognized banks situated outside th6 Sterling Area (External Accounts), and those of other nonresidents outside the Sterling Area. The accounts of companies and individuals resident outside the Sterling Area are treated in the same way as the accounts of residents, except that, without exchange control permission, they may not be overdrawn or be debited for any payment outside Hong Kong.1 The accounts of recognized banks situated out- side the Sterling Area are termed External Accounts. These may be credited with permitted payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of foreign currencies to authorized banks. They may be debited freely, but they may not normally be overdrawn, and an order for the purchase of foreign currency may be executed only by an authorized bank. 1 Any company or private individual resident outside the Sterling Area may apply to the exchange control for special permission to open an External Account. HONG KONG Imports and Import Payments Except for gold and certain dutiable or danger- ous commodities, imports are free of license. If the prescription of currency requirements are ful- filled, and if related shipping documents are pre- sented when the value of the consignment exceeds £250, the authorized banks may freely make payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area for imports from the Sterling Area, and to residents of other countries for individual ship- ments not exceeding £ 10,000 in value from those countries.2 To make payment or establish letters of credit through an authorized bank for imports from the dollar area for local consumption or for re-export to Mainland China, the Republic of China, or Macao, the importer must surrender to an authorized bank U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars in amounts equivalent to the value of the imports; these currencies may be purchased in the free market. Imports from Mainland China, the Republic of China, or Macao are normally paid for in Hong Kong dollars (but not to the credit of an External Account), and exchange control approval is not required. An exchange control form must be submitted for prior approval for payments for imports not covered by the regulations described above. These include (1) imports for which documents are not presented, payment is required in advance of ship- ment,3 and payment is not in accordance with the usual prescription of currency requirements; (2) goods imported specifically for re-export; and (3) all imports of diamonds, ships, and boats. Payments for Invisibles Payments made through authorized banks and not exceeding £500, or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies, to other parts of the Sterling Area do not require approval; for larger amounts, exchange control permission is necessary. The authorized banks have power to approve payments to nonresidents for most invisibles up to certain limits (no exchange control form is 2 The completion of an exchange control form for imports in excess of £10,000 in one shipment is required principally for reporting and checking purposes; approval is given automatically, provided that the exchange con- trol and import control requirements have been fu lf i l led. 3 Prior approval is not required for advance payments if the consignment does not exceed £250 in value and the payment is not being made more than three months before shipment takes place. 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG required when the payment does not exceed <£ 100 or the equivalent). Payments for invisibles above these limits need the approval of the exchange con- trol, which is normally granted. The basic allow- ance of exchange at the official rate for residents (for exchange control purposes) of Hong Kong traveling to countries outside the Sterling Area or beyond Macao is <£250 or the equivalent for each individual journey. Applications for exchange in excess of this allowance to cover gen- uine travel expenses may be made to the exchange control. In any event, payments may be made freely through the free market by holders of Hong Kong dollars. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any destination of gold, certain stra- tegic goods, and such commodities as textiles and garments are subject to restrictive licensing; exports of many textiles and garments to specified countries are restricted in accordance with bilat- eral agreements. For exports to countries outside the Sterling Area, Mainland China, the Republic of China, and Macao, the exporter must submit to the Department of Commerce and Industry, for approval, a declaration showing how the export proceeds will be collected. If payment is not being received within six months and in accordance with prescription of currency requirements, the circumstances must be reported to the exchange control. The U.S. dollar proceeds of exports to the dollar area or to the Republic of Korea of goods originating in Mainland China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao are freely disposable to the extent of the f.o.b. value of the goods; proceeds from freight and insurance payments have to be surrendered to an authorized bank. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in accordance with the regula- tions (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts exceeding <£500, or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies, from other parts of the Sterling Area require permission. When freight and insurance on exports that have originated in Mainland China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao, and that have been financed in U.S. dollars, are paid in Hong Kong by the exporter in sterling or in Hong 188 Kong dollars, the exporter must surrender the U.S. dollar proceeds of that freight and insurance at the official market rate. Other exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered. Capital Licenses are required for transfers abroad of capital in currencies other than the U.S. dollar; these are granted at the official market rate only for approved purposes or, if the equivalent in U.S. dollars has been sold to an authorized exchange bank, at the discretion of the local control. Exchange for the repatriation of foreign capital is normally provided at the official market rate if the exchange control had given prior approval of the investment. Transfers of capital may be made freely in Hong Kong dollars through the free market. However, licenses are required for all receipts from, as well as transfers to, other parts of the Sterling Area which exceed <£500 or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies; these licenses are granted for all bona fide transactions between Hong Kong and other parts of the Sterling Area. Gold There is a free market for gold in which non- residents who are not resident in Sterling Area countries may freely deal among themselves in bars and coins; settlements must take place in Hong Kong dollars or U.S. dollars through the free exchange market. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Financial Secretary. Imports and exports of gold jewelry not constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Director of Commerce and Industry. Un- less an import license has been granted, residents other than the monetary authorities are not per- mitted to purchase gold outside Hong Kong; ex- port licenses are granted only for gold, other than jewelry, in transit. Residents may hold gold in any form in Hong Kong but not outside. Changes during 1967 November 18. The par value of the Hong Kong dollar was changed from HK$5.71429 = US$1 to HK$6.66667 = US$1. November 22. The par value was changed from HK$6.66667 = US$1 to HK$6.06061 = US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0155907 gram of fine gold per Icelandic Krona or IKr 57.00 = US$1. The official rates are IKr 56.93 buying, and IKr 57.07 selling, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on these rates and the dollar rates for such currencies in other countries. Rates for settlements through clearing accounts are fixed; the buying and selling rates maintained for the currencies concerned by the Central Bank of Iceland differ from their parities by 0.12 per cent either side for clearing sterling, or by 0.12 per cent buying and 0.14 per cent selling for clearing kronur. The rate for clearing dollars is IKr 57.00, buying and selling. The authorized banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce, af ter consulting the Central Bank, has the ultimate decision on matters concerning import and export licensing and on payments for invisibles. The Central Bank of Iceland is responsible for the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and of exchange control, including capital controls, and for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents is surrendered to the authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as authorized. The two largest Ice- landic banks, the National Bank of Iceland and the Fisheries Bank, are the only banks, other than the Central Bank, that are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. In addition, they issue import and exchange licenses in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Iceland is a member of the Sterling Area. All settlements with the five countries with which Iceland maintains bilateral payments agreements must be made exclusively through clearing accounts, denominated as follows: with Rumania and the U.S.S.R., in Icelandic kronur; with Brazil and Hungary, in sterling; and with Eastern Ger- many, in U.S. dollars. As a general rule, exchange receipts from other countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. In practice, settlements with countries in the dollar area are made in U.S. dollars; with countries in the Sterling Area and some other countries, in sterling; and with all other countries, in their respective currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident kronur accounts: Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts. Foreign Accounts may be credited with the pro- ceeds from the sale of foreign currency to author- ized banks and with authorized payments due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used for authorized payments to residents and may be converted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are in practice seldom used, pay- ments for international transactions generally being made in U.S. dollars, sterling, or other convertible currencies. Special Accounts may be opened by agreement with an authorized bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely, up to certain limits, with approved payments f rom residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not included in the restricted list or subject to state trading (see below) may be imported freely (and, with minor exceptions, with- out an import license) from any coun try; about 89 per cent of total imports (1966 basis) is liberalized. Some 50 commodities or groups of commodities are included in the restricted list and are subject to quantitative restriction. Most of these goods are admitted, subject to individual license, under global quotas that apply to all countries with which Iceland does not maintain bilateral payments agreements.1 The remaining goods on the restricted list are admitted f rom the same countries on the basis of individual licenses issued on a discretionary basis ("other licensing"). The principal items involved are gasoline, gas oil, and fuel oil; they are imported mainly from 1 For these goods, moreover, additional licenses may be applied for outside the global quotas. 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Rumania and the U.S.S.R. All goods on the restricted list require individual licenses when imported from bilateral payments agreement coun- tries; licenses in this case are generally issued in accordance with bilaterally agreed quotas, but in practice they are granted freely for global quota items. Certain imports are only admitted under state trading; these include fertilizers, tobacco, alcoholic beverages, and perfumes. Imports on a collection basis with deferred pay- ment are subject to an advance deposit of 10 per cent. Imports under documentary credits are sub- ject to m in imum advance deposits of 10, 25, or 50 per cent, depending on the category of goods. Except for imports of automobiles, a fee of % of 1 per cent (minimum IKr 10.00) is charged as a license fee on the kronur amount of the import license when the license is issued. This fee is not charged on licenses for imports f rom countries with which Iceland maintains bilateral payments agreements. A fee of 90 per cent (in addition to customs duties) is charged as a license fee on the f.o.b. kronur price of passenger automobiles from all sources (30 per cent for jeep-type vehicles). Importers of goods not requiring licenses do not have to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment from abroad, provided that the purchase is payable at sight. On the other hand, the goods will not be cleared by the customs unless payment has already been made or the importer has arranged with an authorized bank for the payment. An importer may either open a letter of credit or obtain a payment certificate which enables him at any time to buy foreign exchange to pay for the goods. For imports that require individual licenses, foreign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for govern- ment payments (such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the foreign service, payments to international organizations, payments for postal, telegraphic, and telephone services), for banking commissions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange transactions. Most other outgoing payments are licensed freely on the basis of bona fide documents. The 190 basic allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of IKr 10,000 a person a year. Applications for exchange for repair of ships, repair of means of transport other than ships and aircraft, transactions and transfers in connection with direct insurance, and insurance business operations abroad are con- sidered on their merits. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out up to IKr 1,500 in Icelandic banknotes and coins, in denominations not exceeding IKr 100. Non- resident travelers may re-export any foreign exchange they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses. Exchange receipts accruing f rom exports must be surrendered without undue delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered without undue delay. The owners of Icelandic ships and aircraft are, with the approval of the authorized banks, permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts from freight, passenger tickets, or other charges, and to use them for operating purposes and for purchases of necessities for the homeward journey of the ship or aircraft. Icelandic insurance companies which reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned from premiums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expenditures of the insurance business in the country where the foreign exchange was earned. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in up to IKr 1,500 in Icelandic banknotes and coins. There are no limitations on the import of foreign banknotes and coins. Capital All investments by nonresidents in Iceland are subject to individual approval. The participation of nonresidents in Iceland's joint stock companies may not exceed 49 per cent, and is not allowed in the fishing industry. Nonresident-owned foreign capital entering in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Nonresidents may be author- ized to open nonresident accounts for these funds, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in which case their retransfer abroad may be permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender foreign exchange accruing to them on account of capital transactions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, including loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits and approved only in exceptional circumstances. The contracting of commercial credits abroad for a period of between 3 and 12 months is also approved only in exceptional cir- cumstances, e.g., in connection with the import of industrial raw materials for which the production process is lengthy, the import of construction materials, etc. The authorities permit the use of suppliers' credit of up to 90 days, except for the financing of a number of specified imports, includ- ing motor vehicles for personal use, various house- hold appliances, specified foods, various types of clothing, precious and semiprecious stones, watches and clocks, toys, and portland cement. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval, which is granted only in exceptional cases. However, direct investment abroad for the purpose of assisting the marketing of Icelandic products is normally permitted. Portfolio invest- ment abroad by residents is prohibited. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported funds; the transfer abroad of the proceeds from the sale of these assets and securities requires authorization. Secur- ities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be reg- istered, and all transactions and operations con- cerning them are subject to licensing. The import and export of securities by residents are subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, subject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mon- etary authorities and industrial users. ICELAND Changes during 1967 January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Poland was terminated. It was replaced by an agreement providing that payments would be made in freely convertible currencies. January 11. Further imports from all sources were liberalized; the main item affected was unroasted coffee. The global quotas for 1967 were announced. All feedgrains were exempted from the special regulations previously employed to ensure procurement from the United States under U.S. Public Law 480 arrangements; the authorized banks discontinued their control over such purchases of feedgrains but maintained it over P.L. 480 imports of wheat, wheat flour, and tobacco. April 14. The import of radio receivers ceased to be a State monopoly. September 1. The basic exchange allocation for a resident tourist traveling abroad was reduced from the equivalent of IKr 15,000 to that of IKr 10,000 a year. Persons participating in tours (including cruises) arranged by tourist bureaus were allowed the equivalent of IKr 6,000 in foreign currency, and the exchange allocation for tourist bureaus on account of expenses for such tourists was established at the equivalent of IKr 360 a day. The amount of Icelandic notes that resident and nonresident travelers are permitted to take with them or bring in was reduced to IKr 1,500 a person. The export of notes in denominations exceeding IKr 100 was prohibited. October 30. The advance deposit requirements for imports were increased. For imports not on credit, a deposit of 15 per cent of the value was required at the time the foreign exchange is sold, for a period of three months. For goods imported on credit without a payment guarantee, a 15 per cent addition to the previously required deposit of 10 per cent was applicable, making 25 per cent in all; the deposit would be repayable at the expiry of the credit term, but not earlier than three months from the date of import. Exempt from these requirements were certain essential raw materials and foods as well as certain commodities for export production. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND November 27. The par value was changed from IKr 43.00 = US$1 to IKr 57.00 = US$1. November 27. The fee of l/2 of 1 per cent that previously was charged on the kronur amount of foreign exchange sold by banks for purposes other than study abroad was abolished. November 27. The license fee on the f.o.b. kronur price of passenger automobiles (other than jeep-type vehicles) was reduced from 125 per cent to 90 per cent. November 27. The advance deposit require- ments for imports were changed back to the levels applicable before October 30, 1967. 192 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Indian Rupee or Rs 7.50000 = US$1. Transac- tions in foreign exchange are conducted through authorized dealers, as follows: in sterling, at rates fixed by the Foreign Exchange Dealers Associa- tion; in other currencies, at rates fixed on the basis of market conditions, subject to spot transactions being done at or between the London market rates for sterling against the other currency concerned. Authorized dealers are permitted to cover their requirements of non-Sterling Area currencies in the London market and to cover their permitted transactions in certain currencies x against sterling, rupees, or any one of these currencies, either spot or forward for periods not exceeding six months, with authorized banks in any country outside the Bilateral Account group.2 On December 31, 1967, market rates for telegraphic transfers on London were <£ stg. 5.5605 buying, and £, stg. 5.5280 selling, per Rs 100 and for telegraphic transfers on New York they were US$13.40 buying, and US$13.25 selling, per Rs 100. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of India in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government of India in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as author- ized dealers permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange for specified purposes under regulations laid down by the Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency India is a member of the Sterling Area and has an exchange control system similar to that of the 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish krpnor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Afghan is tan, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and Yugo- slavia. There are also special payments arrangements with the Sudan and the United Arab Republic for settle- ment of their trade w i th India in specified commodities on a balanced basis and w i th in specified ceilings. The State Trad ing Corporation of India has an arrangement w i th the Tunisian agency OCET for ba lanc ing pur- chases and sales of specified commodities. United Kingdom but adapted to suit local require- ments. For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into three groups: Sterling Area countries, Bilateral Account countries (see footnote 2 ), and the Convertible Account group (all other countries). Payments to and from Sterling Area countries may be made in sterling or any Sterling Area cur- rency, except Indian rupees, through the account of a resident of any Sterling Area country except India, or in Indian rupees through the account of a bank in any Sterling Area country except India.3 Payments to and from Bilateral Account countries must be settled in Indian rupees through the appropriate clearing account. Payments to coun- tries in the Convertible Account group may be made in rupees or sterling to the credit of the account of a resident of any country in this group 4 or in any listed currency.5 Receipts from the Con- vertible Account group may be obtained in any listed currency, in rupees from the account of a bank in any country in this group, or in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of Bhutan and Nepal are treated as resident accounts.6 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as non- resident accounts. The treatment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in three groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescription of currency purposes, i.e., Sterling Area Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Converti- 3 The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for all remittances to Pakistan. 4 All remittances by nationals of Mainland China to any coun try outside India and all remittances to Main- land China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were stopped with effect from November 3, 1962. All payments due to Mainland China are required to be credited to blocked rupee accounts. The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for all remittances to Rhodesia. 5 The currencies listed for this purpose are those of Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark and the Faroe Islands, French Franc Area, Federal Republic of Ger- many, Italy, Japan, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and Liechtenstein, and United States and territories under U.S. sovereignty. 6 However, residents of Nepal have to obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA ble Accounts. These accounts may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes, with authorized trans- fers from the nonresident accounts of private firms or persons, with proceeds from sales of the cur- rency of the country or monetary area of the account holder, and with proceeds from sales of sterling from the appropriate nonresident sterling account in the United Kingdom. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (other than banks), provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of countries in the Sterling Area, or when the transferor account is of a country in the Convertible Account group and the trans- feree account is of a country either in the same group or in the Sterling Area. Transfers may be made from Convertible Accounts to other Conver- tible Accounts or to Sterling Area Accounts and between Sterling Area Accounts. All other entries on Sterling Area Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Convertible Accounts require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Nonresident accounts of private individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; refunds of amounts previ- ously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remit- tances in appropriate foreign currency or trans- fers from appropriate nonresident banks' rupee accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); proceeds from checks issued by the Life Insurance Corporation in respect of maturity or death claims and surrendered value of policies held by nonresidents, provided that the Corpora- tion certifies that premiums had been received in India in an approved manner and that actuarial reserves are held in India; proceeds of checks, pro- vided that the aggregate of such credits during a month does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no individual credit is in excess of Rs 750; and proceeds from the sale of Indian Government securities and of units issued by the Unit Trust of India which were originally purchased from funds in the same non- resident account. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for such items as payments for premiums on life insurance policies of the account holder or his dependents; all taxes due from the account holder in India; contributions to 194 the National Defence Fund, the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund, or any government- sponsored charity; allowances not exceeding Rs 1,000 a month to relatives and dependents in India; investment in Indian Government securities and in units issued by the Unit Trust of India; and for checks up to Rs 1,000 a week drawn in favor of beneficiaries resident in India or in favor of the account holder while temporarily resident in India. All other credits and debits require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers are not normally permitted from nonresident accounts of individuals or firms to nonresident accounts of banks, unless the amounts originally credited to such accounts could have been trans- ferred abroad. Special regulations cover funds lodged in National Defence Remittance Scheme (Special) Accounts representing rupee proceeds of inward remittances for the acount of nonresidents and rupee proceeds from sales of certificates issued under the Scheme, which expired on May 31, 1966. Balances in such accounts cannot be remit- ted abroad; they may, however, subject in some cases to prior approval by the Reserve Bank, be invested domestically or be used for other expendi- tures in India. There are also blocked accounts, to which are credited capital proceeds that are due to nonresi- dents and may not be remitted abroad. Balances in blocked accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested in approved Indian rupee securities; the income derived from such investments may be remitted to the owner's country, when the approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. Imports and import Payments Specified raw materials required by certain industries and other importers may be freely imported under an open general license. Practi- cally all other imports require individual licenses. Imports of specified commodities required by 59 priority industries, including small-scale industries, are licensed upon application, on a continuing basis, provided that previous licenses have been utilized to a specified extent. Licenses to actual users for imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts are not granted wholly against free foreign exchange, but partly against tied-aid credits from particular countries. Individual ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution licenses may be .issued ad hoc, or on the basis of quotas allocated to established importers in accordance with their imports in a base period, to actual users on the basis of their requirements, and to registered exporters in accordance with the import content of their exports. Generally, licenses may be used to import from any country except Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa, and South-West Africa; imports from these countries are prohibited. Such licenses are referred to as General Area Licenses, as opposed to Specific Licenses, which are issued against tied aid and are available only for imports from the country providing the assistance. Single Country Licenses are issued for certain imports from countries with which bilateral trade or payments agreements are in force. Licensing policy generally accords priority to foodstuffs, capital goods, raw materials, and other industrial requirements, while the import of other items is severely limited or prohibited. At the beginning of each financial year, an announcement on import control policy is made in the form of a Red Book, which gives in detail the policy for various categories of importers. Licensing is in most cases on an annual basis. Licenses in excess of Rs 8,000 issued to established importers are subject to the condition that remittances must not exceed 50 per cent of the amount of the license in the first six months of the validity period of the license. This condition is not imposed on actual users, to whom licenses are issued to cover their six months' or annual require- ments. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods, of heavy electrical plant, and of goods imported to fulfill government contracts and for irrigation projects. In licensing imports of a capital nature, their essentiality, their potential for earning or saving foreign exchange, and the availability of medium-term or long-term credits for financing such imports are taken into account. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presentation of the exchange control copy of the license. License holders may make pay- ments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be submitted are not normally allowed; but in special cases, e.g., INDIA imports of machinery and capital goods, where deposits have to be made with overseas manufac- turers, the Reserve Bank grants special authoriza- tion for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. Certain commodities, including foodgrains and most fertilizers, are only imported by the Govern- ment or two state trading enterprises—the State Trading Corporation and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, mainly for expenses incidental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in for- eign currency to residents may be paid in rupees or in the currency in which the policy is issued; but Indian residents are prohibited from taking out life insurance policies in foreign currencies. There are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to nonresident bene- ficiaries (except any income accruing to beneficia- ries of the National Defence Remittance Scheme), provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. However, remittances to Indian nationals who were granted exchange facilities for emigration on or after January 1, 1963 of dividends and interest on shares, securi- ties, and deposits held in India require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank or are subject to any special directions given to the person con- cerned when he was granted emigration facilities; such remittances are subject to an over-all limit of Rs 20,000 a year. Foreign employees are permitted to make rea- sonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, for the support of their fami- lies, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, other than nationals of Pakistan, to the extent of 50 per cent of net income, subject to a maximum of Rs 2,360 a month, or up to the foreign currency amount of the monthly average of remittances made by the person concerned during the last 12 months prior to June 6, 1966. Applications for foreign exchange for travel or education abroad are considered on an individual 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA basis; no exchange is granted for tourist travel. Travel agents and companies are not permitted to book passages abroad for persons resident in India (other than foreign nationals temporarily resident in India) unless the traveler has been granted travel exchange by the Reserve Bank or has been specifically granted permission by the Reserve Bank to book his passage.7 The export of Indian currency notes and coins except to Nepal is, in general, prohibited. The export to Nepal of Indian currency notes in denominations of Rs 100 or higher is also pro- hibited. However, deck passengers to Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East Africa, and travelers to Ceylon and Pakistan, may take with them Rs 20 a person at any one time. Residents may take out foreign notes and coins up to <£3 10s. Od. or its equivalent a person; authorized money-changers at airports and sea- ports are permitted to sell foreign currency notes up to a value of ,£3 10s. Od. or its equiva- lent a person to all passengers, whether Indian or foreign, who have made payments for the fare in rupees in India, but not to deck passengers or travelers proceeding to Ceylon, Pakistan, Nepal, or Bhutan or any person with an international passport proceeding to Pakistan en route to some other country. Nonresidents may take out the foreign notes and coins which they declared on entry, less the amounts sold to authorized dealers in India. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few items, and most commodities may be exported without a license. Most of the controlled commod- ities are licensed freely to all shippers; a few may be exported through established shippers; and a few commodities are subject to export quotas. Exports of sugar are confined to specified countries in respect of which international commitments 7 Prior permission to book passages abroad is not necessary, however, for the following: deck passengers to or from Burma, Ceylon, Malaysia, Singapore, Pakis- tan, Persian Gu lf ports, or East Africa; UN staff mem- bers and their families whose tickets are purchased by or on instructions from UN agencies; staff of airline and steamer companies traveling on official duty; travel between India and Pakistan by persons holding restricted travel documents issued by the High Commission for Pakistan in India or India-Pakistan passports; air travel between Madras/Tiruchirapalli/Trivandrum and Co- lombo, Ceylon; and travel between Nepal and India. 196 have been undertaken. Exports to Portugal, Rho- desia, South Africa, South-West Africa, and Tibet are prohibited. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the full export proceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the pro- ceeds of exports, in most currencies 8 must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or the holdings are the balance on July 8, 1947 in a sterling account held by him, or he is not domiciled in India and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Some major exports, including tea and jute manufactures, are subject to export duties. Some exports receive cash assistance; they are mainly new manufactures, such as engineering goods. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles in certain currencies 8 must be surrendered. The import of Indian currency notes and coins is, in general, prohibited. However, deck passen- gers from Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East Africa, and travelers from Ceylon and Pakistan, may import into India Rs 20 a person against presentation of evidence that they previ- ously had exported this amount from India. Per- sons coming to India from Burma are allowed to bring in Indian currency notes up to a value of Rs 50 for an adult and Rs 25 for a child between the ages of 12 and 18. Travelers from Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, pro- vided that a declaration of the total amount brought in is made to the customs authorities upon arrival. Persons holding foreign currency notes may sell them to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to an authorized money-changer. 8 The list includes Canadian dollars, U.S. dollars, most Western European currencies ( inc lud ing sterling), Dji- bouti francs, East African shillings, Hong Kong dollars, Iraqi dinars, Malaysian dollars, Moroccan dirhams, Panamanian balboas, Philippine pesos, Tunisian dinars, and Vietnamese piastres. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital The inward movement of capital is practically free, except when it is to form part of an invest- ment requiring the prior approval of the Indian Government. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are utilized for the purchase of rupees from the Reserve Bank to finance their normal business operations in India and that they are repaid only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrow- ings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Foreign investments once admitted are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enter- prises receive. Repatriation of capital owned by persons residing in Sterling Area countries other than Pakistan, and by residents of Denmark, Nor- way, or Sweden, is authorized freely. Capital invested in approved projects after January 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original investment, may be repatriated at any time. The proceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are blocked (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, above). Local borrowing by foreign-controlled corporate bodies is restricted. Prior permission by the Reserve Bank is required for foreign-controlled partnership firms or corpo- rate bodies to accept appointment as agents or technical advisors. Indian nationals (including persons domiciled in India) are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In exceptional cases, foreign exchange may be released up to a limit of Rs 20,000 at the time of emigration and in three subsequent annual install- ments of Rs 10,000 each. The remainder of an emigrant's assets are blocked; only income on such blocked assets is thereafter allowed to be remitted up to a limit of Rs 20,000 per annum. Foreign nationals who are resident but not domi- ciled in India are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own country the proceeds from the sale of their investments, sub- ject to a limit of Rs 75,000 at the time of retire- ment and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 20,000 per annum, provided that the shares and securities concerned are quoted on recognized stock exchanges in India; in addition, INDIA they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Indian or foreign securities. The export of securities and their transfer to nonresidents require approval, as does also the sale, transfer, or other disposal of foreign securities. Persons resident in India are permitted to hold foreign securities that have been acquired in a manner not involving a breach of the Indian exchange regulations. Gold In India, detailed control is exercised over the manufacture, acquisition, possession, and disposal of gold in various forms through an organization headed by a Gold Control Administrator. There is a total ban on private possession of primary gold. Although there is no ban on possession of finished articles of gold (including coins) pre- viously declared, there is restriction on their manufacture and fresh acquisition. There is no restriction on the manufacture, acquisition, dis- posal, or possession of gold ornaments, except that holdings of such ornaments above specified limits are subject to the requirement of declara- tion. The consumption of gold by industrial users is regulated through permits and authoriza- tions. Control is exercised over the dealers and goldsmiths through a system of licensing. The gold refineries are subjected to strict government control with a view to eventually bringing them under State ownership. The refineries are required to manufacture primary gold only in the form of standard gold bars, for which strict specifica- tions as to their fineness, weight, dimensions, and markings are prescribed. Imports of gold in any form by residents other than the monetary authorities require special authorization from the Reserve Bank and are not normally permitted; established jewelers, however, are from time to time granted licenses to import gold of over 14-carat for the manufacture for export in their own workshops of jewelry of 14- carat or less. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry produced in India for export and jewelry consti- tuting the personal effects of a traveler are pro- hibited unless the export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Changes during 1967 February 2. Bauxite producers were no longer required to effect exports only through the inter- mediary of the Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation. March 6. The redemption proceeds of "Gulf rupee" notes could no longer be credited to the nonresident accounts of banks in the Persian Gulf territories, except for notes received from banks operating in Muscat and Oman, where the "Gulf rupee" continued to be legal tender. March 15. The Gold Control Rules were revised so as to prevent any person other than a licensed dealer or refiner from possessing primary gold. Within a period of six months from March 1, 1967, individuals were required to dispose of pri- mary gold either by sale to dealers or refiners or by delivering it to a licensed dealer or certified goldsmith for conversion into ornaments. A fu r- ther period of six months was provided for dealers and goldsmiths to convert such primary gold into ornaments of any purity. April 1. Jute imports could no longer be effected under the open general license procedure. April 4. The academic eligibility requirements for students going abroad for higher studies were raised, and the exchange allocation for students going to the United Kingdom and the continent of Europe was raised from <£ stg. 600 per annum, inclusive of fees, to <£ stg. 600 per annum plus actual fees. May 1. Import restrictions on the maintenance imports of the 59 priority industries were virtually removed with the introduction of a continuous licensing practice under which import licenses were issued freely upon application if previous licenses were utilized to a specified extent. The open gen- eral license for the import of raw materials required by certain export industries was extended to September 1967. The list of commodities ineli- gible for import licenses because of sufficient domestic production or because of nonessentiality was amended by the addition of 80 items, includ- ing certain spare parts, machinery, chemicals, and Pharmaceuticals. May 26. The export duty on jute sacking was reduced by Rs 150 a ton. 198 May 26. Export duties were lowered for selected jute manufactures, and for certain cate- gories of manganese and iron ore. May 26. The flat rate export duty on tea was replaced by a graduated duty, which resulted in reduced effective tax rates for lower and medium qualities of tea. June 8. Cash assistance for exports of selected engineering goods was increased by 5 to 10 per cent of the f .o.b. value. July 6. With effect from May 2, 1967, the 25 per cent export subsidy on pig iron was abolished and the export subsidy on iron bars and rods was increased from 20 per cent to 25 per cent. (On January 11, 1968, the subsidy on pig iron was restored to 10 per cent for exports made on or after May 2, 1967.) August 1. All direct and indirect trade between India and Portugal was prohibited. September 1. Exchange allocations to students for certain preparatory courses abroad were dis- continued. September 4. It was announced that investments in private limited companies by nonresidents of Indian origin would in future be authorized beyond the previously imposed limit of 49 per cent of the capital, subject to certain undertakings by the investor. September 4. It was announced that import entitlements would no longer be allowed to export- ers of plain silver jewelry. September 7-8. Increases in cash assistance to selected export industries were announced. September 8. Import replenishment licenses for the production of a number of export commodities were granted more liberally. September 20. Licenses for imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts by small- scale industries were partly granted against tied aid; previously, they were entirely financed with free foreign exchange. October 4. Exports of sugar were restricted to destinations in respect of which India had accepted international commitments. October 5. Cash assistance was extended to merchant exporters of rayon and synthetic textiles; previously, only manufacturers of such textiles had been eligible for cash assistance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the Indonesian Rupiah has been established with the Fund. There are two exchange markets in both of which the exchange rates fluctuate. The principal market is the BE (Bonus Export) market through which the greater portion of trade transactions are channeled. It is supplied mainly from export proceeds that are retained by exporters as transferable foreign exchange deposits (after payment of taxes in for- eign exchange). On the demand side, the BE market is used for settling the greater part of private imports, all government imports and service payments, most transfers associated with foreign investment, and specific invisibles. BE exchange is traded on the Djakarta Bourse, where on February 2, 1968 BE exchange was quoted at Rp 264 per US$1. The other exchange market is the DP market, in which Complementary For- eign Exchange (Devisa Pelengkap) is negotiated. It is intended primarily for receipts and payments in respect of invisibles but it may be used to pay for private imports, including those which have access to the BE market. On February 2, 1968 the DP market rate was Rp 280 per US$1. The central bank 2 intervenes to maintain orderly con- ditions and to insure that the spread between the two market rates does not exceed 15 per cent. In addition to the above, the following rates exist (see Table of Exchange Rates, below): (1) The special BE rate applies mainly to aid transactions. It is adjusted periodically by the central bank in line with movements in the BE market rate; the divergence between the two rates is not permitted to exceed 15 per cent. On Febru- ary 2, 1968 the special BE rate was Rp 238 per US$1. ( 2) A separate exchange rate applies to transactions of the oil companies. This rate is based on the special BE rate. For administrative reasons it is only changed at the beginning of the month, when it is fixed at the level of the special BE rate on the last day of the preceding month; on February 2, 1968, the rate was Rp 240 per US$1, buying and selling. Two additional buying rates result from a 10 per cent exchange tax on all exports, other than petroleum, and from an additional exchange tax of 15 per cent levied on nine major export commodities (excluding petroleum). The 10 per cent exchange tax is allocated as "ADO foreign exchange" to the regions, according to the origin of the commodities exported. The Indonesian rupiah is not legal tender in Sabang, which is entirely outside the Indonesian exchange control system, or in West Irian (Irian Bara t), which is not entirely outside the Indo- nesian exchange control system but has a cur- rency of its own and has a measure of autonomy in respect of trade and exchange control. The exchange rate between the West Irian rupiah and the Indonesian rupiah is IBRp 1 = Rp 10. Pay- ments for certain imports from Indonesia into West Irian, however, are subject to an excess profit levy of 25 or 50 per cent, and payments from West Irian to Indonesia for nontrade trans- actions are subject to a tax of 5 per cent; in Indonesia, the latter tax is applied to West Irian banknotes brought in by travelers, in lieu of enforcement in West Irian. The exchange rate of the West Irian rupiah in terms of currencies other than the Indonesian rupiah is IBRp 1 = US$0.10 or the equivalent for other currencies. Administration of Control The implementation of exchange and trade control is entrusted to Unit I of the Bank Negara Indonesia, the Bureau of Foreign Exchange Trans- actions (BLLD), the Ministry of Trade, author- ized foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Exchange control is administered by the BLLD. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks. Generally, payments are made in convertible currencies, but settlements with countries with which Indonesia has bilateral payments arrangements are made through special clearing accounts.3 1 In view of changes that took place early in 1968 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on February 2, 1968. 2 Bank Negara Indonesia, Unit I. 8 Indonesia maintains bilateral payments agreements with Mainland China, the Netherlands, the Philippines, and Poland. An agreement with the United Arab 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts, as the 1964 Foreign Exchange Act only recognizes foreign nationals and Indonesian nationals. There are no restric- tions on the opening by foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiahs or foreign cur- rencies. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers and an initial deposit is required for registration; registration is automatically authorized for exporters who also wish to establish themselves as importers. Import licenses are not required. Imports from Bulgaria, Mainland China, Hungary, Rhodesia, Rumania, and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports are classified in three lists: (1) the BE list, which in turn is divided into three subgroups ("very essential,""and "semiessential"); (2) the DP list, which is a residual list covering all permissible items not on the BE list; and (3) the "negative" list of prohibited imports (passenger cars with an f.o.b. value exceeding US$2,000, television sets with 21-inch or larger screens, de luxe radio-record player consoles, and textiles with a batik design). Aid funds may only be used to finance items included in the "very essential" and "essential" subgroups of the BE list, and are usually restricted to use for purchases in the donor country. All items on this list may be financed through the BE or DP markets. Items on the DP list may only be financed through the DP market. Import duties are calculated on the c.i.f. value of imports at a rate that is adjusted monthly in line with the BE market rate. On February 2, 1968, that rate was Rp 240 per US$1. Import duties are paid when goods are cleared through customs. Import surcharges of 75 and 200 per cent are applied to a number of items subject to import duty at a rate of 50 per cent or more. Excess profit levies ranging from Rp 10 to Rp 200 per U.S. dollar are applied to imports of goods competing with national products and to certain other items bearing low rates of import duty. An Republic has not been implemented. Bilateral accounts are maintained with Pakistan and certain East European countries pending settlement of balances outstanding at the time of termination of the respective bilateral agree- ments. Under the agreement with the Netherlands, most payments take place in convertible currencies outside the bilateral "A" accounts. 200 additional import fee of 1 per cent is levied on items that are subject to customs duties; it is calcu- lated at the rate applicable for the calculation of import duty, i.e., at Rp 240 per US$1. Payments for Invisibles Open general licenses have been issued to the authorized banks enabling them to make payments through the BE market for specified invisibles (e.g., those connected with imports of goods on the BE list) without further authorization. Prior approval, however, is required for all other invisibles financed through the BE market. Pay- ments for all invisibles may be made through the DP market without prior approval. A fee of 1 per cent is payable on payments in respect of invisibles. Travelers may freely take out Rp 2,500 in Indo- nesian banknotes and the equivalent of US$500 in foreign banknotes. The export of additional foreign exchange by resident travelers requires the approval of the BLLD. Nonresident travelers may take out the same amount of foreign bank- notes that they brought in, provided that it was duly noted in their passports upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Bulgaria, Mainland China, Hungary, Rhodesia, Rumania, and South Africa are pro- hibited. Except for a few commodities, such as soybeans, tapioca, cassava, and corn, which may only be exported with the approval of the regional authorities, exports are permitted without license. Exports may be made by private firms as well as by state trading firms. All exporters except the petroleum companies and the state trading firms must require their buyers to open a bank letter of credit covering the "f.o.b.-net" value of the goods to be exported. Upon shipment of the goods, i.e., upon receipt of the export documents by the bank, exporters are credited in foreign currency with a certain portion, depending on the category of exports, of the full export proceeds calculated in accordance with the "f.o.b.-net prices"; such prices are announced for each of the principal export commodities (other than petroleum) at regular intervals. The portion of export proceeds credited as foreign currency is the "export bonus." Not included in the "f.o.b.-net price" are any amounts needed to cover normal commercial expenses, such as com- missions, rebates, and refunds. That part of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution actual export proceeds in excess of the "f.o.b.- net price" is treated as proceeds from invisibles and, therefore, becomes DP exchange. For the purpose of determining the export bonus, exports (excluding petroleum) are grouped into two cate- gories. Category A (rubber, copra, pepper, tin, coffee, diamonds, palm oil, palm kernels, and tobacco leaves) is subject to an exchange tax of 10 per cent, which is allotted as "ADO exchange" to the government of the region where the commodities originated, and to an additional exchange tax of 15 per cent that accrues to the Foreign Exchange Fund. Category B includes all other export products (except gold and silver); these are subject only to the 10 per cent exchange tax. The export bonus is valid for three weeks from the date it is credited to the exporter's account at an authorized bank. During this period it may either be used to pay for imports included on the BE list, or be sold at the prevailing market rate to an authorized importer or the central bank. If not used during the period of its validity, any bonus in the amount of US$20 or more must be surrendered to the central bank at the special BE rate. No customs duties are levied on exports. How- ever, a BLLD fee of 1 per cent of the "f.o.b.- net" value of the goods shipped is payable; the fee is calculated at a rate of Rp 240 per US$1. Proceeds from petroleum exports of foreign oil companies operating within the scope of the Con- tract of Work Law of 1963 may be retained . abroad. Rupiahs needed by those companies to cover local expenditure, such as operating costs and taxes, are exchanged at the oil rate of Rp 240 per US$ 1; this rate is adjusted each month to keep it in line with the special BE rate. Agricultural commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and Singa- pore in exchange for specified consumer goods, capital equipment, and raw materials. In this "border crossing trade," the value of an import or export shipment must not exceed M$600. Proceeds from Invisibles Services provided by Indonesian residents to foreign countries or foreign nationals must gen- erally be paid for in foreign exchange. All receipts from transactions in invisibles, including inward INDONESIA remittances by diplomatic missions, are settled in the DP market. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but only Rp 2,500 in domestic banknotes. Capital The Foreign Investment Law of January 10, 1967 provides various incentives for the participa- tion of foreign capital in Indonesian enterprises not engaged in a few specified fields of activity (including harbors, electric power, shipping, and railroads). The Investment Law specifies a sys- tem of investment priorities; it assigns the highest priority to enterprises generating foreign exchange followed by those that save foreign exchange. Enterprises that are wholly or largely operated in Indonesia as separate business units must be incorporated under Indonesian law and must have their domicile in Indonesia. The operation per- mit for foreign investment is valid for 30 years. Among the inducements offered are exemption from, or reduction in, corporate and dividend taxes for a certain number of years, provided that the sum involved is not less than US$2.5 million. Joint ventures by Indonesians and foreigners may benefit from similar tax incentives even if the investment involved is less than US$2.5 million. Other inducements include exemption from cus- toms duties, accelerated depreciation allowances, and permission to offset initial losses against sub- sequent profits; foreign investments with a mini- mum capital of US$15 million may in the initial two years receive additional benefits. Transfer of profits (after taxes) is guaranteed at the BE rate, and guarantees are also given in respect of depreciation allowances and transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of for- eign persons in Indonesia. However, as long as investments benefit from tax relief, capital repatri- ation is not permitted. The law implicitly provides guarantees against wholesale nationalization of foreign investments. Equitable and mutually satis- factory arrangements are stipulated for resolving the issue of just compensation in the event of nationalization of any specific foreign investment. A special regime applies to enterprises previ- ously nationalized but now restored to the original owners. Such enterprises are allowed tax holidays for a period of three years on new capital in for- eign currency brought into the context of rehabili- 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA tation and expansion programs. They are also allowed to transfer at the BE rate 50 per cent of their profits after taxes for a period of three years, and the full amount of such profits thereafter. The transfer of proceeds from the sale of the assets of those restored enterprises which ceased opera- tions may take place with effect from January 1, 1972 at the rate of one fifth of the said proceeds a year, with a full guarantee as to their value in foreign currency. The transfer of proceeds from the sale of assets of enterprises whose period of operation has expired or whose operations have been terminated by the Government is allowed at the rate of one fifth a year effective from the time of the sale of assets. This transfer is also guaranteed as to its value in foreign currency. In May 1967 a Debt Investment Conversion Scheme (DIGS) was promulgated for the benefit of foreign creditors holding nonguaranteed claims against Indonesia. Private creditors willing to accept the terms of the Scheme and prepared to make investments in Indonesia are paid in rupiahs at the prevailing BE market rate in settlement of their claims; these rupiahs are transferable to other potential investors in Indonesia. DIGS rupiahs may be used, in projects approved under the Foreign Investment Law of 1967, for the pur- chase in the BE and DP markets of foreign exchange for the import of equipment, raw mate- rials, and other commodities necessary for their establishment and operation. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indonesia. Imports of gold and of gold coins are free of licensing and of import duty but are subject to an excess profit levy of Rp 25 per US$1; both are on the BE list. Exports of gold (other than jewelry consti- tuting the personal effects of a traveler), unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties, require licenses issued by the central bank; export licenses are rarely granted. Table of Exchange Rates (as at February 2, 1968) (rupiahs per U.S. dollar) 198.0 Buying (BE Rate* less 15% Exchange Tax and 10% ADO5) Nine major export commodities.6-7 237.6 (BE Rate less 10% ADO 5) Other export commodities (excluding petroleum). 238.0 (Special BE Rate, Adjusted Periodically) Purchase of expired BE certificates by the central bank. 240.0 (Oil Rate,8 Adjusted Monthly) Exchange receipts from oil companies. 264.0 (BE Rate, Fluctuating) Purchase of foreign exchange by the central bank, excluding exchange from invisibles. Capital trans- fers associated with approved foreign investment. 280.0 (DP Rate,9 Fluctuating) All receipts from invisibles, including diplomatic expenditures, and repatriated capital. 4 Transferable foreign exchange deposits designated as "Bonus Export." 5 Exchange allotted to regions according to origin of exports. 6 Coffee, copra, diamonds, palm oil, palm kernels, pepper, rubber, tin, and tobacco leaves. 7 Effective export rate when there is no "overprice" (ac tual sales price in excess of "f.o.b.-net price") or 202 Selling 238.0 (Special BE Rate, Adjusted Periodically) Imports paid for with aid funds. 240.0 (Oil Rate,8 Adjusted Monthly) Exchange payments by oil companies. 264.0 (BE Rate, Fluctuating) Sales of foreign exchange by the central bank. All government imports and invisibles. Imports on BE list. Invisibles connected with trade and cer- tain other specified invisibles. Capital transfers and invisibles associated with approved foreign investments. 280.0 (DP Rate,9 Fluctuating) Imports on the DP list. Other invisibles (this rate may also be used for other imports not on the negative l is t ). when any proceeds received over and above the "f.o.b.- net price" are utilized to meet normal commercial expenses, such as commissions, rebates, and refunds. 8 This rate is adjusted at the beginning of each month and is fixed at the level of the special BE rate on the last day of the preceding month. 9 Devisa Pelengkap, or exchange. complementary foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1967 January 10. A new Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 1 of 1967) was enacted giving foreign investors full ownership and management rights and providing for liberal tax incentives and for repatriation of capital and profits. January 27. The first implementing ordinance to the Foreign Investment Law of January 10, 1967 was issued. It specified the criteria for priority investments. February 6. Foreign enterprises formerly under the control of the Government were per- mitted to invest their capital in Indonesia for a period of between 15 and 30 years, depending upon how long the enterprise had been established. The 15-year to 30-year period included the remainder of the period still available under the permit previously granted. For a period of three years, transfers of profits after taxes were limited for these enterprises to 50 per cent; no exemp- tion from taxation was granted, except when addi- tional capital was invested. February 11. The exchange rate for oil trans- actions was changed from Rp 45 to Rp 85 per US$1. February 21. Indonesia resumed membership in the International Monetary Fund. February 22. The distinction between DP "A Accounts" and DP "B Accounts" was terminated. Both became DP accounts and could be used freely for all transactions. February 27. All trade with Rhodesia was prohibited. March 17. A Presidium decree abolished the requirement that 50 per cent of customs duties be paid in advance of importation. March 28. By decision of the Monetary Coun- cil, export offices and banks were instructed to dis- continue issuing licenses for exports to Bulgaria, Hungary, and Rumania. March 28. The prohibition on exports to Singa- pore of Category I products was lifted. March 28. The cost of importing goods with special export bonuses issued by the central bank for the use of foreign credits was reduced as the payment for these bonuses could be partially post- poned: 75 per cent of the price could be settled 14 days after notification that the import docu- INDONESIA ments have arrived; for raw cotton, fertilizer, and spare parts for vital transportation, 90 per cent of the payment could be delayed in this manner. April 1. Foreign enterprises restored to their former owners were allowed tax holidays for a period of three years on new capital in foreign currency brought in within the framework of a rehabilitation and expansion program. These enterprises were exempted from the provision of the Foreign Investment Law that restricted tax holidays to investments of at least US$2.5 million. In addition, they were granted a one-year defer- ment of taxes owed at the time they were restored to the former owners. April 1. Foreign enterprises formerly under the control of the Government were allowed to transfer 50 per cent of profits after tax for a period of three years, and the full amount thereafter. The transfer of proceeds from the sale of the assets of those enterprises ceasing their operations was to be permitted beginning in 1972, at the rate of one fifth of such proceeds a year, under guarantee as to their value in foreign currency; in the case of a sale of the assets of enterprises whose period of operation had expired or whose operations had been stopped by the Government, the transfer of the proceeds was allowed at the rate of one fifth a year beginning from the time of sale of the assets, under guarantee as to the value of the proceeds in foreign currency. These transfers could be made at the BE rate fixed by Unit I of the Bank Negara Indonesia. April 1. Foreign estates and plantations which had not been purchased by the Government but only taken over could be returned to their former owners on a joint venture basis. Operating per- mits for 30 years were to be granted if the owner was prepared to undertake rehabilitation and a firm replanting program; operating permits for 15 years were to be granted if the owner did commit himself to do so. April 3. The exchange rate of the West Irian rupiah was changed f rom IBRp 1 = US$0.2762 to IBRp 1 = US$0.10. The relationship between the West Irian rupiah and the Indonesian rupiah was set at IBRp 1 = Rp 10; previously, it was I B R pl = R p l. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA April 3. The basis for the calculation of import duties was raised from Rp 75 to Rp 90 per U.S. dollar. April 10. Surcharges of 50 and 100 per cent of current import duties were levied on a rather comprehensive list of imports. Excess profit lev- ies were imposed on some additional imports. May 10. Private creditors holding nonguar- anteed claims against Indonesia, and who, there- fore, were not covered by the terms agreed at the Debt Rescheduling Meeting of Paris, were offered the option of being paid in rupiahs under a Debt Investment Conversion Scheme. These rupiahs, referred to as DIGS rupiahs, could be used for investment in Indonesia under the terms of the Foreign Investment Law of 1967 and were fully transferable between nonresidents, with the exception that they could not be transferred to nonresidents who had concluded special agree- ments with the Indonesian Government. May 24. The exchange proceeds from sales of stocks and bonds and from dividends and inter- est thereon were declared DP exchange. June 3. Contrary to the general provisions of the Foreign Investment Law, the Government by Instruction No. 36/U/IN/6/1967 of the Cabinet Presidium announced that it was granting tax holidays to joint ventures with a capital of less than US$2.5 million and that these enterprises could benefit from another year of tax exemption in addition to the normal three-year period of tax holiday. June 23. The export of all commodities to Malaysia and Singapore was again permitted, except exports of tin waste and tin ore to Singapore. July 25. The BLLD announced the procedures for the implementation of Foreign Investment Law No. 1 of 1967. July 28. Exporters of major export commodi- ties were required to surrender 15 per cent of exchange receipts as an export tax collected through the banking system. Moreover, all exporters were required to surrender, without rupiah reimbursement, 10 per cent of their exchange receipts as ADO exchange, which was to be allocated to regional authorities according to the origin of the export commodities. 204 July 28. The former various BE lists of imports were replaced by a single BE list of commodities importable on the basis of Export Bonus and ADO exchange. The new BE list was subdivided into Group I, nonconsumer goods, and Group II, con- sumer goods. July 28. Regulation 10 of the Indonesian Government substantially simplified the import and export procedures by eliminating several documents. For exports, the Export Permit Cer- tificate (SIP) and the Letter Notifying Agreement on Selling Commodities Abroad (SP3) were abol- ished. For imports, the requirement of an Import Statement (PI) was abolished, except for BE imports without cover. For both imports and exports, the requirement of a Foreign Exchange Contract (KV) was abolished. July 28. The classification of export commodi- ties was altered from three to two categories. Category A included the principal commodities, representing some 80 per cent of Indonesia's total exports, and Category B the remainder (except gold and silver). In addition, the amount of export bonus to be retained by the exporter was set at 75 per cent for Category A exports and at 90 per cent for Category B exports; for many exports this represented an increase in their entitle- ment to export bonus. The check price system based on the "f.o.b.-net price" was abolished for Category B. July 28. The use of BE without cover for imports was restricted to the import of noncon- sumer commodities in the new BE import list. In addition, the outstanding amount of BE without cover for imports was not at any time to exceed US$30 million. On July 28 this amount had been exceeded, authorized banks were not allowed to accept new Import Statements (PI) for BE imports without cover, until the issuance of a further announcement by the Bureau of Foreign Exchange Transactions. July 29. The Bureau of Foreign Exchange Transactions issued regulations on the use of BE certificates for payments in respect of invisi- bles. No prior approval was required for the payment of freight connected with imports using BE, or for certain other specified invisibles: prior approval was required for all other payments financed through the BE market, such as insur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ance premiums on imports using BE, contribu- tions to international organizations, and project survey expenses stipulated by the Government. July 31. The valuation basis for the calculation of import duties was raised from Rp 90 to Rp 130 per U.S. dollar. July 31. Aid BE's could be sold by any state- owned foreign exchange bank; previously, they were only sold by the Bank Negara Indonesia, Unit I. August 3. A maximum period of 180 days was set for the repayment of the price of goods imported on the basis of BE imports without cover; after that period no payment with BE was allowed. August 3. Import surcharges of 100 per cent were levied on specified food products, matches, various textiles, footwear, sheet glass, and certain other commodities. Surcharges of 50 per cent were levied on practically all commodities subject to 70 or 50 per cent import duty, and on some additional products. Excess profit levies of Rp 10 to Rp 200 per U.S. dollar were imposed on sugar, matches, various yarns, and porcelain tiles, and on gold, silver, and platinum in coins and bars. Levies of Rp 30 per U.S. dollar were imposed on television and radio sets, some textiles, batteries, drinking glasses, and passenger cars. A partial or full duty exemption was granted on some chemi- cals, some iron and steel products, some alumi- num products, mechanical equipment, tractors, and certain types of trucks. These measures were applied with retroactive effect to April 10, 1967. August 3. Ministry of Finance Decree No. 156/MENKEU/67 provided for exemption from import duties, retroactive to January 10, on machinery, equipment, and means of transport required for the establishment of new enterprises under the Foreign Investment Law, and on raw materials and semifinished and finished goods to be processed by these enterprises. These exemp- tions would apply for a period of two years. The decree also provided for exemption from duty on personal effects and consumer goods brought in by foreign employees. Finally, duty exemption could also be requested for office supplies and equipment and for construction materials. August 6. Tin waste could again be exported to Singapore. INDONESIA August 7. Within the framework of the prepa- ration of the new Banking Law, the Government reduced the amount of working capital that for- eign banks are required to bring into Indonesia from US$1 million to US$500,000. August 7. Indonesia signed the Declaration of Bangkok creating the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). August 14. The Ministry of Trade announced a ban on exports to Mainland China, Israel, and South Africa. August 22. The amount of foreign banknotes that could be taken out by travelers was increased from the equivalent of US$100 to that of US$500 a person. August 30. Tin ore shipments to Singapore were again permitted. September 6. Claims of foreign private credi- tors not guaranteed by foreign governments and converted into DIGS rupiahs were to be admin- istered through DICS-rupiah accounts in the name of the owner with Unit I of the Bank Negara Indonesia. The conversion rate to be applied was the BE rate. DIGS rupiahs were declared transferable and could be used for investment in Indonesia. September 9. Imports from Mainland China were suspended. October 4. By decree of the Cabinet Presidium, the requirement of a Certificate of Approval of Import (SPI) was abolished. October 13. The export of cocoa kernel of quality C or lower was prohibited with effect from September 15. November 14. A Ministry of Finance decree imposed import surcharges on items not included on the BE import list. The surcharge was 100 per cent on items subject to duties of 40, 50, 70, and 100 per cent; 50 per cent on items subject to duties of 5, 10, 20, or 30 per cent; and Rp 25 per U.S. dollar on duty-free items. The new sur- charges were additional to those established on Augus t3, 1967. November 20. A 100 per cent luxury tax was imposed on imports of such items as television sets, tape recorders, and cameras. 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA November 20. The import of rice by using BE imports without cover or against payment with an ADO guarantee was permitted, provided that this rice arrived at Indonesian ports before April 1, 1968. This measure became effective on Novem- ber 8, 1967. November 28. The ban on the export of remilling or smokehouse rubber was temporarily suspended for producing regions without remilling or smokehouse factories or where the processing capacity of these factories was insufficient to absorp total production. The BE and ADO pro- ceeds from such exports were to be used solely to finance the establishment, construction, or expan- sion of processing capacity of remilling or smoke- house rubber factories. November 29. Announcement No. 16/Inv/ BLLD/1967 of the Bureau of Foreign Exchange Transactions provided that sales of stocks denomi- nated in foreign currency and owned by a foreign citizen or a foreign corporate body required prior application to the Foreign Exchange Transac- tions Bureau, through the intermediary of the bank where the stocks were deposited. December 4. Purchases of aid BE's required cash payment of 100 per cent of rupiah counter- value and could be made by registered importers only. December 6. Exporters were required to regis- ter their exports with their foreign exchange banks by submitting an Export Declaration form indicat- ing the "f .o.b.-net price." For Category A exports, the "f.o.b.-net price" to be indicated was the one fixed by the Department of Commerce; for Cate- gory B exports, exporters themselves could set the "f.o.b.-net price," provided that it was in accordance with price levels in world markets. December 30. The Banking Law was passed by Parliament. Foreign banks were allowed to open branches or start joint ventures in Indonesia. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1968: January 12. Travelers could not bring in or take out domestic banknotes in excess of Rp 2,500. January 22. The exchange rate applied prin- cipally to foreign aid transactions, henceforth called the special BE rate, was depreciated from Rp 140 to Rp 240 per US$1. It was to be adjusted in line with the BE market rate, and it was made applicable also to purchases of export BE whose validity period had expired. Previ- ously, the BE/BNI rate was applicable to both aid exports and government transactions; it was seldom changed and consequently did not reflect the movements of the BE market rate. January 22. The DP rate was applied to expen- ditures by diplomatic missions; previously, these were effected at the BE/BNI rate. January 27. Imports of gold no longer required a license. January 27. All import commodities were grouped in three lists: a BE list, a DP list, and a negative list of prohibited items. The BE list was divided into three subgroups: "very essen- tial," "essential," and "semiessential." January 29. The valuation basis for the calcu- lation of import duties was raised from Rp 130 to Rp 240 per US$1. February 1. The exchange rate applicable to oil transactions was set at Rp 240 per U.S. dollar. Previously, a rate of Rp 85 per U.S. dollar was applicable to such transactions. 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0117316 gram of fine gold per Iranian Rial or Rls 75.75 = US$1. The offi- cial rates are Rls 75.00 buying, and Rls 75.175 selling, per US$1. Exchange rates for other cur- rencies quoted by the central bank 2 are based on these buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, taking into consideration the exchange rates of the quoted currencies in the international exchange markets. Exchange rates for currencies not quoted by the central bank are determined by the author- ized banks with due regard to the rates against the U.S. dollar currently quoted in the international exchange markets. The following charges are levied by the author- ized banks on the amount of exchange sold for imports: l/2 of 1 per cent for sanitary services, and Yio of 1 per cent of the invoice amount for the Export Promotion Fund. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Bank Markazi Iran (the central b ank ). All for- eign exchange transactions must take place through authorized banks. The import and export of goods is governed by regulations issued annu- ally by the Ministry of Economy under the approval of the Cabinet. Import policy is formu- lated within an over-all foreign exchange budget. Foreign trade relations with Albania, Mainland China, Eastern Germany, and North Korea are under the control of the Foreign Transactions Corporation within the Ministry of Economy. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts are normally settled in sterling, U.S. dollars, or the currency of the coun- try concerned, provided that the currency is one which is quoted by the central bank. Transactions with the six countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements 3 must be 1 In view of certain changes that took place on Febru- ary 15, 1968 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position on that date. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Franch francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 3 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, and U.S.S.R. conducted through agreement accounts denomi- nated in U.S. dollars. Payments to and from Pakistan and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade and defense materials) are settled over clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U.S. dollars. Pro- ceeds from exports to India may be accepted in Indian rupees. Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals are permitted to maintain accounts freely, in rials as well as in foreign cur- rencies, with the authorized banks; rial accounts may be used only for payments in Iran. Foreign nationals may also maintain time deposits in for- eign currencies in Iran. Foreign currency accounts of foreign nationals may be used for transfers abroad or for sales to authorized banks, provided that such funds originate abroad. Iranian nationals may freely maintain time deposits in foreign currencies in Iran; they also may freely retain, on current accounts with domes- tic banks, all foreign exchange they receive other than export proceeds. Imports and Import Payments All imports into Iran are subject to control by the Government. The import policy is re-examined annually, and a new Import List, effective for the next Iranian year, is published by the Ministry of Economy. The Import List dis- tinguishes between "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Authorized" imports, consisting of nonluxury goods which either are not produced in Iran or are produced in Iran but not in quantities sufficient to meet domestic require- ments, are divided into two main categories: (1) imports for which orders may be placed without prior approval by government agencies,4 and (2) imports that are subject to prior approval by government agencies before the import order is placed. "Unauthorized" imports include goods which have been shifted from the "authorized" list to the "unauthorized" list, as well as goods that 4 Imports of goods that are not included in the bilat- eral import/export list for countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements require special ap- proval by the Ministry of Economy. 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN may be permitted occasionally by the Ministry of Economy when the supply of the protected local product is considered insufficient. For "prohib- ited" goods, no authorizations are given. Imports free of charge of "authorized" goods require prior approval by the Ministry of Econ- omy and the central bank of Iran; however, per- mission is given for the following: imports destined for official charitable institutions or government organizations; machinery, spare parts, and raw or intermediate materials for productive institutions, up to US$500 a shipment; and all other imports of "authorized" goods up to US$150 a shipment. Specified commodities, such as tobacco and cigarette paper, are imported under state monop- oly. Gold may be imported only by the central bank. Unless otherwise specifically authorized, pay- ment for all commercial imports must be made through the official exchange market. Payments may be made either against bills for collection or documentary letters of credit. Payments against bills for collection may be made without authori- zation for goods (mainly capital goods and raw materials) listed in the Schedule attached to Cir- cular No. 116 of August 3, 1965 (Iranian date 12.5.1344). Payments for imports of other goods required by domestic industries may also be made against bills for collection with special permission from the central bank. All other import payments must be made against documentary letters of credit. All orders for imports must be registered with the Bank Markazi Iran through an authorized bank; registration is effected against a pro forma invoice. The import of gifts is restricted to Rls 10,000 for each person a year. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited and spe- cial regulations apply to certain commodities originating in Hong Kong. At the time of registration of imports, importers are required to pay Rls 3 per US$1 of the amount of the order as a registration fee. They must at the same time deposit with the Bank Markazi Iran, through an authorized bank, Rl 0.50 per US$1 of the amount of the import order for machinery eligible for payment against bills for collection, Rls 2 per US$1 for other goods eligible for payment against bills for collection, and Rls 10, Rls 30, and Rls 75.50 (depending on 208 the essentiality of the goods) per US$1 for goods for which payment must be made against a docu- mentary letter of credit. This deposit is liable to forfeiture up to Rls 3 per US$1 in the event that any misrepresentation by the importer is subse- quently discovered but it is otherwise refundable upon presentation of the customs clearance certifi- cate after the respective goods have been cleared through customs, or if and when the order is canceled. Authorized banks make payments for permitted imports against the presentation of shipping docu- ments. Approval of the shipping documents by the authorized banks represents approval of the for- eign exchange transfer. Almost all imports are subject to commercial profit taxes, in addition to tariffs, which are either specific or ad valorem. The ad valorem commer- cial profit tax ranges from 1 per cent to 225 per cent. Monopoly taxes are included in the com- mercial profit taxes. The authorities specify in the Import List the commercial profit taxes for each year. Ail taxes are paid to the customs before customs clearance. The clearance through cus- toms is authorized upon the presentation of ship- ping documents approved by the authorized banks, specifying that payment has been made or will be made, and, when required, that the special import authorization has been received from government agencies prior to lading of goods in the country of origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports are made on the same basis as payments for those imports. Exchange is granted to merchants for insurance of imports against bills for collection; for imports covered by documentary letters of credit, insurance must be taken out in Iran. Exchange is not granted to merchants for insur- ance of Iranian exports sold f.o.b. Foreign nation- als working in Iran as technical assistants and whose employment has been recognized as neces- sary by the Government may take out in foreign exchange about 50 per cent of their net salaries. The annual travel allowance for Iranian nationals —which is limited to US$500 or its equivalent in other currencies for travel to Europe, the United States, or the Far East, and to US$100 for other countries —may be sold by authorized banks upon presentation of the traveler's passport. For chil- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dren under 12 years of age the allowances are 30 per cent of the above amounts. In addition, authorized banks may sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$120 for each written request to Iranian nationals for assistance to persons abroad without the submission of supporting docu- ments, provided that the remittance is made in the form of a mail or telegraphic transfer. Iranian nationals may also freely make remittances abroad from domestic current accounts in which they retain foreign currencies received from sources other than exports; balances in such accounts are freely transferable. Purchases of foreign currency from the banks for payments in respect of non- commercial invisibles not mentioned above require licenses from the central bank. Iranian nationals leaving the country are required to pay a travel tax of Rls 10,000 for each single-voyage exit permit, except for pilgrimage travel for which the tax is Rls 3,000. Lower rates apply to family members traveling on the same passport (wife and children from 7-18 years of age), viz., Rls 750 a person for pilgrimages and Rls 2,500 a person for other travel. Iranians resi- dent abroad and students studying abroad but visiting home temporarily are exempt from pay- ment of the tax; so are Iranian workers leaving the country when traveling in a group to a foreign assignment. Travelers leaving Iran may take with them Rls 3,000 in Iranian banknotes. Travelers of foreign nationality may not export foreign cur- rency in excess of the amount they imported less the amounts they have sold to authorized banks, as recorded in their passports; they may, however, convert rials up to the equivalent of US$50 into other currencies upon presentation of their visaed passports. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of oil to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of some commodities require licenses. A commercial profit tax is imposed on a few exports, mainly consumer goods or raw materials. The commercial profit tax charged at the time of import on materials contained in goods for export may be returned to the exporter after the export has taken place. Under a system of export subsi- dies ( that are announced semiannually), the Min- istry of Economy allows the exporter 20 per cent IRAN of the f.o.b. value of exports of manganese ore and 7% per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports of lead ore. However, the actual rate paid to the exporter by the Ministry of Economy is 90 per cent of the percentage mentioned for ores; the remainder is put at the disposal of the Ministry of Economy to promote exports. The exporter must offer for surrender the for- eign exchange value of his exports, as appraised by the customs, within eight months after the goods have been exported. Authorized banks accept export proceeds only in specified currencies (see footnote 2) or, for exports to India, in Indian rupees. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank, where they remain at the free disposal of the account holder. The import of Iranian currency by travelers to Iran is permitted in unlimited amounts. The repa- triation of Iranian banknotes through the mail is not permitted. Travelers, during their stay in Iran, may sell their exchange only to an authorized bank at the bank's buying rate. Capital Iranian nationals may retain on domestic for- eign currency accounts any capital receipts accru- ing in foreign exchange; transfers abroad from such accounts may be made freely, as may domes- tic transfers to other Iranian nationals. Transfers of capital abroad which would involve the pur- chase of foreign exchange from the banking sys- tem require the approval of the central bank; except as noted below, such approval is given only in exceptional circumstances. In accordance with the law concerning the encouragement and protection of foreign capital investment in Iran (1955) and regulations imple- menting the law, foreign capital invested in approved development or productive activities in industry, mining, agriculture, or transport may be repatriated, together with net profits (in accor- dance with the provisions contained in the imple- menting regulations), in the form of foreign exchange and/or goods. Transfers of exchange must be made at the selling rate prevailing at the 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN date of transfer. However, the central bank has the option of buying the exchange or accepting it as a deposit to be converted into rials at a rate mutually agreed upon in a separate agreement, and this rate is applicable to the funds when they are repatriated. Capital imported in the form of foreign exchange must be in currencies acceptable to the central bank; the exchange is converted into rials at the buying rate prevailing at the date of application for conversion. The law does not set up any limit of participation with respect to the ratio of foreign to domestic investment, but the Super- visory Board encourages participation by Iranians in the proposed investment. Gold Residents may freely and without license pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Iran; Iranian nationals are not permitted to hold gold abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form, except jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, require the prior approval of the central bank, unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities; in practice, all imports are made by the central bank and exports are prohibited. The central bank from time to time releases unworked gold to domestic jewelers and other authorized industrial users. Commercial imports of articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as watches, require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. Changes during 1967 January 18. Banks were permitted to sell to Iranian nationals at any time foreign exchange equivalent to US$120 against a written request indicating the reason for the purchase; the trans- fers were limited to those made for assistance of persons abroad, i.e., mainly to family remittances and student remittances. The banks raised their commission on each application from Rls 4 to Rls 130. Only mail or telegraphic transfers could be purchased under this arrangement. The travel allowances were not affected. February 9. A bilateral payments agreement was concluded with Bulgaria; settlements were to be effected through accounts denominated in U.S. dollars with the Bulgarian Foreign Trade Bank and with the Bank Markazi. 210 February 19. The registration of import orders and the opening of letters of credit for specified types of automobiles were no longer permitted. March 7. Foreigners could, subject to prior approval by the central bank, maintain time deposits in foreign currencies in Iran. The mini- mum term was set at three months. March 20. Imports from Rhodesia were pro- hibited. March 20. The export subsidy on certain skins (salambore) was terminated. March 21. The Import/Export Regulations for the Iranian year 1346 (March 21, 1967-March 20, 1968) came into effect. The protective policy for Iranian industry was maintained. Imports of a range of goods, including cars, tractors, rubber tires, fertilizers, and sheet glass, were made sub- ject to the prior approval of the Government. The commercial profits tax was increased on a number of products including passenger vehicles, pow- dered milk, and woolens. Import duties on auto- mobiles and a wide range of other commodities were increased. April 8. Banks were authorized to accept from Iranian nationals time deposits in foreign curren- cies for a minimum term of three months; both principal and interest were transferable abroad upon maturity. Such accounts could also be held at the central bank. April 9. The import of a range of machinery items was freed from the requirement of prior approval by the Ministry of Economy. July 1. A regional payments agreement between Pakistan, Iran, and Turkey (the members of the Regional Cooperation for Development) came into effect. Fifty per cent of each payment for visible trade (other than defense materials and border trade) between members was to be settled through clearing accounts denominated in U.S. dollars which the three central banks maintained with each other, and the other 50 per cent in con- vertible currency. July 30. A five-year tax relief program for exporters was announced. With the exclusion of specified goods, income from most minor exports was exempted from taxation with effect from March 21, 1967. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution September 10. Imports of coffee, tea, pepper, and certain other agricultural commodities no longer required the prior approval of the Ministry of Agriculture. September 16. Iranian nationals were permitted to retain all foreign exchange receipts, other than export proceeds, on current accounts with do- mestic banks. Transfers to and from these accounts within Iran, as well as transfers abroad to the debit of the accounts, could be effected freely. October 29. The Bank Markazi's selling rate for the U.S. dollar was reduced from Rls 76.50 per US$1 to Rls 75.50 per US$1; selling rates for other currencies quoted by the Bank were corre- spondingly reduced. October 29. The advance deposit requirements for imports were decreased. That for imports of machinery under bills for collection was reduced from Rls 3 to Rl 0.50 per US$1; for other goods imported under bills for collection, the requirement IRAN was reduced from Rls 3 to Rls 2 per US$1; and for goods imported under letters of credit previ- ously requiring deposits of Rls 11.50, Rls 31.50, or Rls 76.50 per US$1 the rates of deposit were, respectively, reduced to Rls 10, Rls 30, and Rls 75.50 per US$1. A commission of Rl 1 per US$1 of the import value, payable to the Bank Markazi at the time of the import registration, was instituted for all imports. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1968: February 15. The Bank Markazi's selling rate for the U.S. dollar was reduced from Rls 75.50 per US$1 to Rls 75.175 per US$1. February 15. At the time of registration of imports, importers were required to pay a registra- tion fee of Rls 3 per US$1 of the amount of the import order; previously, this fee was Rl 1 per US$1. 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Iraqi Dinar or ID 1 = US$2.80. Transactions in the official market are carried out in any of the listed currencies x or in Iraqi dinars through non- resident accounts in Iraq. The Central Bank of Iraq quotes official rates for the listed currencies for its transactions with authorized dealers. The official rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1967 were US$2.80758 buying, and US$2.79288 selling, per ID 1. An exchange tax is levied on the Iraqi dinar equivalent of foreign exchange granted to a person who leaves Iraq or resides abroad, except on amounts transferred for the account of persons studying abroad, persons on official mis- sions, and foreigners (other than those married to Iraqis). The tax is 8 per cent for the first ID 500 (with the exception of certain exempted amounts; see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) and 12 per cent on amounts above ID 500 (with the same exemptions) granted during any calendar year. There is a small free market (mainly in banknotes) in Iranian rials and Saudi Arabian riyals. Administration of Control The Board of Administration of the Central Bank of Iraq is entrusted with all powers and responsibilities in connection with exchange con- trol; it has delegated this authority to the Foreign Exchange Committee, headed by the Governor of the Central Bank, to the Foreign Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank, and to the licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Board of Administration. The Directorate-General of Imports and Exports in the Ministry of Economy is the licensing authority for imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Settlements must be made in any of the listed currencies,1 or, under bilateral payments agree- 1 The listed currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 212 ments,2 in dinars or pounds sterling through the appropriate clearing account. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Transactions permitted in convertible currencies may alternatively be settled in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of capital trans- fers. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and all imports from Hong Kong other than certain capital goods are prohibited. Imports of 69 commodities are prohibited from all sources. Imports of jute, sugar, tea, olive oil, certain medical supplies, automobiles, and some other commodities are a government monopoly. All private imports except those of the oil com- panies are licensed in accordance with an annual import program. Quotas are distributed by the Directorate-General of Imports and Exports in accordance with its own criteria; each category of importer is limited to specified types of commodi- ties. Imports of consumer goods generally are more heavily restricted than those of raw materials and construction materials for industrial use. Some commodities may only be imported by government agencies or state trading companies; other com- modities may also be imported by registered pri- vate importers or by contractors who have entered into contracts with the Iraqi Government. New importers who meet the requirements may also be granted import privileges. Licenses for private imports are valid for 6 months from the date of issue and are automatically renewable for a similar period if a letter of credit has been opened. Licenses for imports by the Government or by official agencies are valid for 12 months from the date of issue. 2 Iraq has bilateral agreements with Mainland China, United A rab Republic, and Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Licensed dealers make exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for travel,3 educa- tional and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports carried on a c. & f. basis, insurance pre- miums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. Licensed dealers are per- mitted to transfer up to ID 50 a month for family maintenance on behalf of foreign nationals 'resi- dent in Iraq, provided that remittances do not exceed half of the resident's monthly income; it is necessary to refer to the exchange control authorities for amounts exceeding this limit. There is a basic travel allowance of ID 100 a calendar year for each person 18 years of age or over, of ID 50 for persons aged between 5 and 18, and of ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger, subject to a limit of ID 200 for each pass- port covering more than one person. Tourist travel exchange additional to the basic allowances is sub- ject to ad hoc approval of the Central Bank. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes and the equivalent of ID 15 in foreign cur- rency. Residents on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to take out the equivalent of ID 150 in listed currencies or in Saudi Arabian riyals (ID 75 for persons over 5 and under 18, and ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger). An exchange tax is levied on the Iraqi dinar equivalent of foreign exchange granted to a person who leaves Iraq or resides abroad, except on amounts transferred for the account of persons studying abroad, persons on official missions, and foreigners (other than those married to Iraqis). The tax is 8 per cent on the first ID 500 granted during any calendar year and 12 per cent on amounts above ID 500, with the following exemp- tions: ID 150 for persons 18 years of age or over, ID 75 for persons aged between 5 and 18, and ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger. 3 As at the end of 1967, travel abroad by residents, o ther than off ic ial trave l, was restricted to A rab countries and neighboring countries. IRAQ Travelers leaving Iraq must deposit with an authorized bank 10 per cent of the Iraqi dinar equivalent of the foreign exchange granted. The deposit is refunded upon the traveler's return to Iraq, subject to the fulfillment of certain formali- ties. The following are exempt from the deposit requirement: officials of government, semigovern- ment, and public utility departments, certain per- sons traveling for study purposes, foreigners except non-Iraqi wives of Iraqi nationals, and persons leaving on a pilgrimage. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Hong Kong, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The Ministry of Economy has authority to prohibit exports of agri- cultural products when supply falls short of domes- tic demand. All other exports are licensed freely. The re-export of such goods as cars and agricul- tural machinery is prohibited. Exporters must generally undertake to repatriate their foreign exchange proceeds through a licensed dealer and to surrender them. Proceeds from exports of dates taken by sailing boats to countries of the Persian Gulf area (excluding Iran) and India are exempt from these requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes, in unlimited amounts, provided that they are declared to the Iraqi customs; foreigners may re-export any unused amount. Travelers may bring in ID 5 in Iraqi notes. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, but they must deposit it with a licensed dealer; such de- posits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. With minor exceptions, foreign companies starting operations in Iraq must use Iraqi capital to the extent of at least 51 per cent of their total capital. One half of the profits after income tax of foreign service companies (com- panies rendering services only, including banking and insurance firms) is transferable. The transfer 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ of profits net of income tax from foreign invest- ments in other economic activities is limited to 10 per cent per annum of the paid-up capital for trading companies, and to 20 per cent of the paid-up capital for industrial companies. These percentages are applicable for each year separately. They also apply to profits on capital resulting from reinvestment of profits in excess of the transferable percentages. Arab capital invested in Iraq is exempt from these percentage limitations. Interest payments may be made freely, subject to adminis- trative checking. Imports of capital from Israel are prohibited. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval. Under the Industrial Development Law (No. 31 of 1961) and the Industrial Promotion Law (No. 164 of 1964), specified enterprises in Iraq are granted partial or total exemption during the first five years of operation from income tax, stamp duties, and customs duties on their profits up to 10 per cent of paid-up capital, provided that (1) the principal work of the enterprise is done by machine; (2) all workers and employees other than essential technicians or experts are Iraqi citi- zens or Arabs; (3) the value of machinery and tools required, excluding power-generating plant, exceeds ID 3,000; and (4) foreign non-Arab participation in the enterprise does not exceed 40 per cent. Similar exemptions for profits up to 5 per cent of paid-up capital are granted during the second five-year period of operation. The specified enterprises are those whose main purpose is to process raw materials into semimanufactured or finished products or to process semimanufac- tured products into finished products, including assembly. Under the Iraqization Law of June 1961, all branches of foreign firms and all foreign- owned firms (except b ank s )4 must have a majority of equity capital held by Iraqi nationals; this law does not cover export agencies and operations requiring special skills. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Iraq. Imports and exports of gold in any form require the approval of the Central Bank. * All commercial banks and insurance companies were nationalized on July 14, 1964. 214 Gold may be brought into Iraq, provided that it is declared at the point of entry on a foreign exchange form. Changes during 1967 January 1. In implementation of the third stage of the Arab Common Market Agreement, certain commodities were exempted from import and export restrictions in trade with the member states. January 1. The import program for the public and private sectors for 1967 took effect. Imports (other than defense items and goods for industrial projects executed by foreign firms) would amount to US$336 million, compared with an initial ceil- ing of US$364 million under the 1966 program. The import of luxury items would remain severely restricted. January 1. The basic travel allowance was reduced from the equivalent of ID 300 to that of ID 100. January 1. The registration of new importers was restricted and the issuance of import permits was confined to firms actively engaged in foreign trade. June 6. Exports of oil to specified destinations were suspended. On June 26, the ban was lifted for sales to France and Turkey, and in September 1967 for sales to other countries. June 12. Travel abroad by residents was pro- hibited, with the exception of official travel. The ban was lifted on December 25 for travel in Arab countries and neighboring countries only. June 14. The issuance of import licenses was suspended. Letters of credit could no longer be opened for licenses already issued. Some of these licenses were revalidated in August, when the issuance of import licenses was resumed. June 15. The inoperative payments agreement with Lebanon was formally terminated. July 27. A trade agreement with the United Arab Republic was signed, which provided for the reciprocal elimination of import duties. The swing under the bilateral payments agreement was increased to <£ 1.5 million. November. Certain commodities could be exported on the basis of compensation trans- actions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Irish Pound or £Ir 1 = US$2.40. Transactions in sterling take place at parity. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on London market rates. Certain capital transactions involving invest- ment currency or property currency (see section on Capital, below) take place at different effective rates. On February 15, 1961, Ireland accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks author- ized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of In- dustry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of Agri- culture and Fisheries if the goods are agricultural in character. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Com- missioners. Prescription of Currency Ireland is a member of the Sterling Area, and payments to and from other parts of the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency; certain insurance payments within the Sterling Area, however, may be made in non- Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any non- Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. The proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be received in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any non- Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. The proceeds of permitted exports to Rhodesia must be received in non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds; payments to Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts Accounts of persons resident in other coun- tries of the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. Accounts of persons resident in coun- tries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, with the exception of Rhodesian Accounts, are designated External Accounts. These may be credited with payments authorized for transfer to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, and with the proceeds in Irish pounds of any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds sold by a resident of a country outside the Sterling Area to an authorized bank in Ireland. Balances on these accounts may be trans- ferred freely to other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, used for payments to resi- dents of the Sterling Area, or converted through an authorized bank in Ireland into any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Accounts held by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. The opening of such accounts, and all debits and credits thereto, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Rho- desia require a special license. With this exception, the import of goods into Ireland is subject to two types of administrative control. Under one type, which covers only a limited range of commodities for protective and other nonbalance of payments purposes, imports of certain commodities are sub- ject to quantitative restrictions which, in most cases, are on a world-wide basis. Individual im- port licenses are required for these goods and are used to limit the quantity of goods imported. In addition, special quota restrictions apply to certain textiles and yarns originating in any of 16 specified countries or territories.1 All other imports are free of import licensing. Under the other type of control, prior permission of the 1 These are Bulgaria, Ma in land China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, Pakistan, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Central Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods originating outside the Sterling Area, if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than nine months after the date of the order. For permitted imports, appropriate exchange or permission to credit Irish pounds or sterling to an External Account is granted automatically. Exchange control forms are required for import payments exceeding .£2,000 to countries outside the Sterling Area. Payments for Invisibles Payments to other territories of the Sterling Area are not subject to exchange control unless they are for transactions outside the Sterling Area. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require approval. Approval to make payments for most invisibles is given by the author- ized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tourist travel outside the Sterling Area (other than to Rhodesia) there is a basic allowance for residents of the State of .£250 a person for each trip. For business travel, up to <£ 1,500 is allowed for each journey. Limits are also estab- lished for allowances for education and other purposes. Applications for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is involved. Not more than .£250 of a foreign currency allowance may be issued in the form of currency notes. Persons traveling to des- tinations outside the United Kingdom (other than to Rhodesia) may also take with them up to £25 in Sterling Area currency notes. Travelers who are resident outside the Sterling Area (other than in Rhodesia) may take with them any foreign cur- rency notes that they brought into Ireland. There is no restriction on the amount of Irish or other banknotes that may be taken to the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. There is a special restric- tion on the export of a number of items to Rho- desia. Exporters of goods to countries outside the Sterling Area must obtain payment for the goods within six months of shipment, if the value of the goods exceeds £100. When payment is received 216 in non-Sterling Area currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding £2,000 to countries outside the Sterling Area. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles, but if non- Sterling Area currencies are received they must be offered for sale to an authorized bank or per- mission for their retention must be obtained. Any non-Sterling Area currency held by a person after his return from a trip abroad may be retained for three months from the date he received the exchange, for use on a subsequent trip abroad. There are no limitations on the import of Irish or foreign banknotes. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all transfers of capital to countries outside the Sterling Area. Applications for transfer of capital at the official market rate of exchange by residents of the State emigrating to countries outside the Ster- ling Area (other than to Rhodesia) are approved up to a limit of £5,000 a fam i ly. Where the total value of an emigrant's assets exceeds £5,000, the transfer of the excess amount outside the Sterling Area is restricted for a period of four years from the emigrant's redesignation as a nonresident, i.e., from the date of departure from Ireland. There- after, the assets would be treated in the same way as those of non-Sterling Area residents who had never been resident in Ireland. However, per- mission is given at any time after redesignation for the restricted funds to be transferred abroad through the investment currency market (see below) or invested in Sterling Area securities. Applications for the transfer of resident-owned capital for purposes other than emigration are con- sidered on their merits. There are no restrictions on the inflow of capi- tal, but purchases of unquoted Irish securities by nonresidents of the Sterling Area require approval, and the purchase of nonurban land by foreign nationals in most cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in non-Sterling Area currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. However, investment ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution currency, i.e., the foreign currency proceeds from the sale of non-Sterling Area securities 2 sold out- side the Sterling Area, may be fu l ly reinvested in non-Sterling Area securities, provided that the securities sold were held prior to April 7, 1965, or acquired by "switches" f rom securities so held, and that the investment is carried out within six months from the date of sale through a bank, a stockbroker, or a solicitor. Where the securities sold were purchased with investment currency on or after April 7, 1965, 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate. Investment currency may be invested temporarily in certificates of deposit with up to six months to run to final maturity, without incurring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on resale, provided that the limit of six months for the holding of investment currency is not exceeded. In certain cases, the proceeds from the sale or liquidation of direct investments outside the Ster- ling Area are eligible for investment in non-Sterling Area securities, provided that 25 per cent of such proceeds is surrendered at the official rate. The foreign currency proceeds (referred to as property currency) f rom the sale outside the Sterling Area of property owned by residents, mainly houses and apartments, may be used, subject to individual permission, to purchase for personal use a house or apartment in a country outside the Sterling Area; payments for attendant expenses and improvemen ts must also be made with property currency. Approval is normally limited to one property a fam i ly, and purchases of property cur- rency are limited to reasonable amounts. Trans- actions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred outside the Sterling Area. Dealings in Irish registered securities are permitted freely between residents of the Sterling Area. Specific approval is required for all dealings in securities payable in Rhodesian pounds. Gold Dealings in gold coin and gold bullion are restricted. Permission is normally granted to resi- dents to acquire gold coins for numismatic pur- poses. There are no restrictions on the import of gold coin or bullion but the permission of the 2 Non-Sterling Area securities are all securities ex- pressed in the currency of a coun try outside the S ter l ing Area o ther than the Rhodesian pound. IRELAND Central Bank is required for export. Such permis- sion is not normally granted except to industrial users. Changes during 1967 January 2. Export control on cement and watches was removed. March 1. The export to Rhodesia of certain specified goods was prohibited except under and in accordance with a license issued by the Minister for Industry and Commerce. April 24. Blocked Accounts were abolished. Following the abolition of Blocked Sterling Accounts in the United Kingdom and the unifica- tion of the market for blocked sterling with the official exchange market, Irish currency and ster- ling that previously had to be credited to Blocked Accounts in Ireland when accruing to nonresidents of the Sterling Area became normally eligible for credit to External Accounts, and Irish currency already held on Blocked Accounts could be trans- ferred to External Accounts. However, restricted assets in excess of <£5,000 of persons granted emigration facilities on or after August 18, 1966 were not affected. Persons who were granted emi- gration facilities before August 18, 1966 and whose assets in excess of entitlements were held subject to the rules in force before that date could have such assets or the proceeds f rom their sale credited to External Accounts. May 18. All non-Sterling Area currencies were designated as specified currencies. The prescrip- tion of currency regulations applicable to Rho- desia were revised correspondingly. May 27. The import of certain types of auto- mobile tires of U.K. manu fac tu re required a spe- cific license. June 30. Subject to prior approval by the Cen- tral Bank of Ireland, authorized banks could issue certificates of deposit in non-Sterling Area cur- rencies. Permission would normally be granted for certificates denominated in U.S. dollars and with a ma tur i ty of not more than five years. Pur- chases of such certificates by residents other than banks could only be made with investment cur- rency and through a bank, stockbroker, or solic- itor; banks could freely use to purchase certificates 2 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND of deposit any foreign currency balances held for their own account or held on behalf of customers, but the sales or maturity proceeds of such holdings could not be sold as investment currency. Trans- actions in certificates for and on behalf of residents of the United Kingdom could only be effected through U.K. authorized depositories, and trans- actions on behalf of residents of other Sterling Area territories required the prior approval of the Central Bank. The issue or sale of certificates to nonresidents of the Sterling Area was freely per- mitted, provided that payment was made in accord- ance with the prescription of currency regulations; for such transactions and for payment of sales or maturity proceeds, investment currency could not be used. November 18. The par value was changed from <£Ir 1 = US$2.80 to <£Ir 1 = US$2.40. November 30. The importation of all types of fertilizer manufactured or produced in, or con- signed from, Eastern Germany was prohibited, except under and in accordance with a license issued by the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries. December 22. Ireland became a full contracting party to the GATT and invoked Article XXXV of the General Agreement in respect of Japan. 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.253906 gram of fine gold per Israel Pound or I <£ 3.50 = US$ 1. All exchange transactions take place at rates based on the par value. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Depart- ment of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance under the responsibility of the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange in cooperation with other government agencies, and is carried out through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Settlements with countries with which payments agreements are in fo r c el are usually made in U.S. dollars or sterling as account- ing units. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either on foreign currency accounts or on local currency accounts. A nonresident abroad may use his foreign cur- rency account freely; when in Israel, he may con- vert funds held on the account into local currency at the official rate. Local currency accounts of nonresidents are of two types: (1) Registered Accounts —for payments to and holdings of foreign aviation, shipping, insurance, and film companies and for holdings of former residents—may be established only with special approval. Aviation, shipping, and insurance companies may freely convert at the official rate of exchange any amounts held on these accounts which are surplus to requirements; film companies may do so under individual arrangements made with each company. Registered Account funds held by former residents may be used for investment in listed Israel securi- ties, for purchase of real estate, for tourist expenses in Israel up to an amount of I .£100 a day for the account holder and for each member of his 1 Israel has bilateral paymen ts agreements with Brazil, Bulgaria, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Portugal, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. fam i ly, for remittances of up to I .£2,500 in sup- port of relatives who are residents of Israel, for the settlement of taxes payable in Israel by the owner of the account, and for donations to public and charitable institutions. Ownership of Registered Accounts may not be transferred. (2) Blocked Accounts may be used to hold funds derived from former investments which are not eligible for transfer at the official rate and funds left behind in Israel by tourists. Balances may not be trans- ferred from one nonresident to another, but the accounts may be liquidated by purchasing foreign securities against Israel pounds and selling them abroad against foreign exchange. Otherwise, Blocked Accounts may be used within Israel for the same purposes as Registered Accounts but no limit is placed on the amounts that may be withdrawn. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited from all sources. Importers of goods listed in the Free Import Orders (about one half of total imports in 1967) must be approved as importers by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. These goods are free of all licensing and restriction. All other imports are subject to licensing. For commodities on the Automatic Approval List (about 40 per cent of total imports), licenses are issued automatically upon application. All individual import licenses must be countersigned by the Department of For- eign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance. The currency and method of payment are pre- scribed in each license; if a convertible currency is prescribed, payment may be made in any con- vertible currency. Six basic food products (frozen meat, milk powder, wheat, oilseeds, edible fats, and sugar) are imported exclusively by or for account of the Government of Israel. Exchange to pay for items listed in the Free Import Orders or to pay for licensed imports is granted automatically. An import license may prescribe whether, if payment is to be made by documentary credit, the fu ll amount of foreign currency required must be purchased at the time of opening the credit; in such cases, funds not transferred abroad immediately must be deposited in a special account with the Bank of Israel until 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL transfer is made. Licenses are issued for imports of goods on consignment, provided that the recipient of the license imports goods valued at US$250,000 within three months and undertakes to deposit 10 per cent of the value of the goods in local currency with the Bank of Israel through an authorized bank. Each license is valid only for a single commodity, and an importer cannot receive more than two such licenses a year. The approval of the Department of Foreign Exchange Control is required for all imports effected under foreign credits. Payments for Invisibles Most payments abroad for invisibles require individual licenses. Each resident is allowed exchange equivalent to US$30-250, which is obtainable on demand, for certain purposes such as the purchase of books, membership dues, and registration in a university. For tourist travel abroad, there is an exchange allowance equivalent to US$350 a traveler for each journey. Not more than I £100 in Israel banknotes may be taken out by travelers. Foreign tourists leaving Israel are permitted to repurchase through author- ized dealers part of the same foreign currency they previously exchanged into Israel pounds, but not more than the equivalent of I £,1,050. Residents traveling abroad must pay a travel tax; the tax is I £255 plus 7.5 per cent of the price of the ticket for travel by sea, and I £290 plus 7.5 per cent of the price of the ticket for travel by air. Export- ers doing more than US$100,000 of export busi- ness a year are exempt from travel tax on business trips. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses if paid for in freely convertible currencies. For some com- modities, however, export licensing is retained for the purpose of quality control. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry maintains a check on export transactions with a low value-added content which are made w i th bilateral partners: this is done to discourage switch transactions. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be surrendered or held on a PAZAK account (see section on Pro- ceeds from Invisibles, be low). 220 Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles must, in gen- eral, be surrendered. Alternatively, they may be kept in foreign exchange on PAZAK accounts, balances on which may be exchanged into Israel currency at any time or used to make authorized payments. One third of the foreign exchange received by residents of Israel as restitution payments, and as pensions by disabled soldiers who served in World War II, may be retained in TAMAM accounts (see section on Capital, below). For ten years after entering Israel, new immi- grants are exempt from surrendering their foreign exchange to the Treasury, and they may keep these currencies with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. Tourists visiting Israel are expected to bring with them the amounts of foreign currency that they will need during their stay. Not more than I £100 in Israel banknotes may be brought in by travelers. Tourists and others visiting Israel who are holders of Registered Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above) may draw upon such accounts to the extent of I £100 a day for themselves and the same amount for each member of their families; if they are holders of Blocked Accounts, they may draw on these without limit. Capital Foreign exchange representing incoming capital has to be surrendered at the official rate or held in a PAZAK account (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, above). Capital brought into Israel for the purpose of investment may, subject to approval, be granted preferential treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments of August 16, 1959, which permits a nonresident who has made an "approved" investment in foreign currency to transfer all his profits abroad in the same cur- rency at the official rate. Repayment and amor- tization of capital may also be transferred on the following terms: if the investment has been kept for less than five years, the capital may be with- drawn in five equal installments; if the investment has been kept for more than five years, it may be withdrawn immediately. Current policy is to grant "approved" status only to enterprises in selected ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution fields of production that fulfill one of the follow- ing conditions: (1) that they are established in "priority areas"; (2) that they are export-oriented, i.e., either at least 50 per cent of output is exported or existing productive capacity is increased by at least 50 per cent while at least 50 per cent of the additional output is exported; or (3) that although for economic reasons the enterprise cannot be established in a priority area, its production is of the import-substitution type. Foreign investments made in Israel without taking advantage of the 1959 law do not benefit from these transfer privi- leges, but most old investments have in fact been recognized as "approved" investments. Interest and dividends on bonds or shares registered on the Tel Aviv stock exchange that have been purchased by nonresidents with exchange converted at the official rate may be transferred abroad in foreign currency at the official rate; this applies also to amounts received through sales of such shares. Payments due to nonresidents and not permitted to be transferred abroad may be credited to Regis- tered Accounts or Blocked Accounts, subject to prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liquidation of foreign assets held by residents are treated in the same way as proceeds from invisi- bles. New immigrants may, for ten years from the date on which they first entered, retain their for- eign assets and use them freely. Transfers abroad of a capital na ture by residents other than new immigrants are generally not permitted. Foreign securities may be purchased abroad only by holders of TAMAM accounts and holders of NAT AD accounts; residents who do not hold either type of account may purchase foreign securi- ties with Israel pounds from the holders of TAMAM or NAT AD accounts. As a result, for- eign securities are traded in Israel, against pay- ment in Israel pounds, at premiums over their for- eign prices.2 Holders of TAMAM accounts may use them to purchase abroad, for themselves or their families, securities denominated in con- vertible foreign currencies and quoted on certain official stock exchanges in the country of issue and, subject to submission of evidence to the authorized bank ma in ta in ing the account, for legal costs in 2 These p rem iums are reflected in the so-called NATAD ra te for domestic dealings in fo re ign securities. ISRAEL respect of restitution payments, for travel expenses abroad exceeding the basic travel exchange allo- cation of US$350,3 and for certain other purposes. Foreign securities purchased by debiting a TAMAM account may be sold abroad for foreign currency and the proceeds again credited to a TAMAM account, or the securities may be sold to other residents against payment in Israel pounds or foreign currency. If the foreign securities pur- chased from a holder of a TAMAM account are sold to another resident for foreign currency, the proceeds are credited to a NATAD account. Holders of NATAD accounts may use them for the purchase of foreign securities both from non- residents and from residents (including holders of TAMAM accounts), or may exchange the bal- ances for Israel pounds at the official rate. Both TAMAM and NATAD accounts may also be used for purchases of gold, in Israel or abroad. Gold Residents, including private persons, may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form either in Israel or abroad; purchases by private persons must be financed out of TAMAM or NATAD accounts, except for purchases of jewelry and articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as watches. If the gold is held in Israel it must be deposited for safekeeping with an authorized bank, except for collectors' coins and personal jewelry. The import and export of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, or coins, medals, and medal- lions, is subject to license issued by the Ministry of Finance; licenses are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Changes during 1967 During the year on various dates import restrictions were fu r ther relaxed by the addition of commodities to the Free Import Orders or the Automatic Approval List and by deletion of commodities from the list of prohibited imports. February 1. The foreign exchange allowance for foreign travel was reduced from the equivalent 3 For travel purposes, not more than US$1,200 a per- son a year in TAMAM funds may be used by the account holder on his own beha lf and for each member of his f am i l y. 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL of US$500 to that of US$350 a traveler for each trip. February 21. A foreign exchange allowance of the equivalent of US$250 was granted for mem- bership dues paid by corporate bodies and for pay- ments in respect of patent rights. April 30. The bilateral payments agreement with Rumania was terminated. June 23. The administration of exchange and trade controls was extended to the Old Sector of Jerusalem. November 19. The par value was changed from I<£3.00 = US$1 to I<£3.50 = US$1. November 19. Customs duties were reduced by 12.5 per cent, in order to maintain their amount in terms of local currency at the level existing before devaluation. 222 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00142187 gram of fine gold per Italian Lira or Lit 625.00 = US$1. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dol- lars are maintained between official limits of Lit 620.50 buying, and Lit 629.50 selling, per US$ 1. Market rates for certain other currencies x vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Italy and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. The monetary authori- ties may intervene in the forward exchange market from time to time; otherwise, forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currencies, and in forward exchange transactions up to 180 days in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies. Transactions in foreign banknotes take place at freely negotiated rates. Italy accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano del Cambi) on the basis of instructions issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. All sales and pur- chases of exchange pass through banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Certain imports and exports require the prior visa of the National Foreign Trade Institute. Issues of securities by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are subject to the rules governing the issuing in Italy of Italian securities. Payments to and from the Republic of San Marino or Vatican City are not subject to exchange control. 1 These currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish krpnor, and Swiss francs, wh ich cu r ren- cies are referred to in this survey as externally conver t ib le European currencies, and Canadian dollars. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries may be made in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally convertible European currencies, or in lire on Foreign Accounts. Nonresident Accounts The main types of accounts in Italian lire which nonresidents are allowed to maintain with authorized banks in Italy are Foreign Accounts and Capital Accounts. The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain investments, is described below. 1. Foreign Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, from Capital Accounts, and from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, with authorized current and capital payments, with payments for approved investments abroad by residents of Italy, and with the proceeds from sales of U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible Euro- pean currencies. They may be debited for pur- chases of any of these currencies, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account Under Law No. 43, for payments to residents of Italy for current and capital trans- actions, for payments due to residents of Italy on account of their disinvestments abroad, and for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his delegates. 2. Capital Accounts may be credited with transfers from Foreign Accounts, from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, and from other Cap- ital Accounts, with Italian banknotes (in denomi- nations other than Lit 50,000 or Lit 100,000) sent to Italy by banks abroad, and with the proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investments in Italy not made under the provisions of Law No. 211 of March 2, 1948 or Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 (see below). They may be debited for transfers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts and for the purchase of invest- ments not made under Law No. 43. 3. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in Italy converti- ble currencies or externally convertible European 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY currencies in accordance with the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be credited with transfers from Foreign Accounts or from other Special Accounts and with the proceeds from sales of investments that have been made in accordance with Law No. 43. They may be debited for purchases of the same currency that was originally sold and for investments in Italy, and balances on them may be transferred to For- eign Accounts, Capital Accounts, or to any other Special Account Under Law No. 43. Nonresidents may also maintain Foreign Accounts in foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports of Rhodesian origin require an individual license and most are prohibited. Prac- tically all imports from other countries except Japan, Mainland China, North Viet-Nam, and the Soviet countries are free of quantitative restric- tion; all goods, however, require either a bank certificate for submission to the customs authori- ties or a license issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Commodities that still require individual licenses when imported from these other coun- tries are included in a negative list (Tabella A Import)2 which includes goods listed under some 50 tariff headings or their parts—of these, about 16 relate to agricultural products and food- stuffs. However, the general permission to import goods not included in the Tabella A Import applies to Somalia, the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia only if the goods both originate in and are shipped direct from the country concerned; in addition, in respect of imports from the United Arab Republic, the payee must reside in that country or in one of the European OECD coun- tries. A more extensive negative list (Tabella B Import) contains those commodities which require an individual license when originating in and imported from Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., or North Viet-Nam. The list includes 2 Tabella A Import applies to all countries except A lban ia, Bulgaria, Ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Mon- golia, Poland, Rhodesia, Rum an i a, U.S.S.R., and No r th V ie t-Nam. 224 some 110 tariff items or subitems related to agri- cultural products and foodstuffs, and about 840 tariff items or subitems related to other goods. There is a special list of commodities whose importation is unilaterally and de facto liberalized when they both originate in and are shipped from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, or the U.S.S.R. A separate negative list applies to Japan indi- cating the goods (listed under 96 tariff items or their parts) that are subject to restrictive import licensing when imported from that country. A special list contains those commodities of Japanese origin (at present comprising 100 tariff items or subitems) for which import licenses are issued freely. All other goods of Japanese origin may be imported freely without an individual license, irrespective of the country from which they are shipped. Imports from non-EEC countries of most prod- ucts covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC (including cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and poultry meat) are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of beef, veal, dairy products, most oils and fats, sugar, and specified fruits and vegetables. For imports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for imports from Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a form completed by the importer is required; for imports over Lit 2 million in value, an import document completed by an authorized bank is required. The importer must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, through which he must carry out all payments operations related to his import transactions. For all authorized imports, the authorized banks provide exchange or permit payment in Italian lire to a nonresident account, provided that appro- priate payment terms are observed (see section on Capital, below). International postal money orders may be used to pay for imports not exceed- ing Lit 1 million in value, or any lower amount within the limits established for each country to which this service is provided; amounts in excess of Lit 1 million must be approved by the represen- tative of the Italian Exchange Office at the branch ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of the Bank of Italy having jurisdiction for the area concerned. Payments for invisibles In principle, payments abroad for invisibles require licenses issued by the exchange control authorities. Under general authorization, however, the authorized banks may sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the necessary documents are submitted. Exchange is granted freely for remit- tances of earnings on investments. Residents may use international postal money orders for financial payments in the currency and within the limits established for each country; for payments exceed- ing Lit 1 million, however, prior authorization is required by the representative of the Italian Exchange Office at the branch of the Bank of Italy having jurisdiction for the area concerned. Certain transactions (but not the related pay- ments) in respect of services are subject to approval by the Ministry of Foreign Trade or the Ministry of Industry. These transactions can be divided into two groups: (1) contracts which require a permit if they involve residents of speci- fied countries 3 and (2) contracts which require a permit regardless of the nationality of the nonresi- dents involved. The first group includes transac- tions giving rise to expenditures for chartering ships (excluding charters for a single t r ip ); repairs to ships which are not urgent and not necessary for safety of operation; news agencies and news- paper correspondents (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a month for the same payee ); pur- chase of publication rights, information agencies, etc. ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million per con- t rac t ); copyrights (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a year per contract); services of profes- sional workers and company managers (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion); and services of entertainers and athletes ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million). The second group includes trans- actions giving rise to expenditures for production abroad of films and advertising shorts; utilization of films, scripts, synchronization, etc.; collabora- tion in cinematography; insurance of ships and 8 A lban ia, Bhu tan, Bu lgar ia, Cambodia, Ma in land China ( inc lud ing Mongo l ia), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rum an i a, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, and (only for cha r te r ing sh ip s) Yugoslavia. ITALY aircraft against risks of operation;4 and other transactions not permitted by general authoriza- tion (provided that the amounts involved exceed Lit 1 m i l l ion ). Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain from the banks exchange equivalent to Lit 1 million for each trip for tourism, business, medical treatment, and education (the correspond- ing amount for group travel is Lit 500,000); banks are authorized to supply foreign exchange above these allowances, provided that they are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. To the extent that he refrains from obtaining an allocation of foreign exchange, a resident traveler may take in addition a proportionate amount in Italian banknotes, up to Lit 1 million. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes that they have previously declared upon entry as well as Lit 100,000 in Italian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any country of a few commodities in a special list (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for exports from Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a form completed by the exporter is required; for exports exceeding Lit 2 million in value, an export document completed by an authorized bank is required. The exporter must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, through which he must carry out the payments operations related to his export transactions. Unless special approval is obtained for d iffer- ent terms of payment (see section on Capital, below), exchange receipts must be collected within one year of the arrival of the goods in the country of destination, and they must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within 30 days of receipt. Proceeds in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in foreign exchange accounts for six months, during which period such balances may be used for permitted transactions or be sold to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies to residents for authorized trans- 4 Such transactions need authorization by the M in is try of Indus t ry. 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY actions or to negotiate them freely with the Italian Exchange Office or among themselves. After expi- ration of the retention period, unused balances must be sold to the Italian Exchange Office at the lowest official exchange rate quoted during the retention period (these official rates are deter- mined daily on the basis of the average closing rates in Milan and Rome ). Export proceeds may also be received by international postal money order, up to amounts within the limits established for individual countries. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same requirements as receipts from exports. Ship- ping and insurance companies and travel and for- warding agencies may keep operating accounts in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies. Residents may retain up to the equivalent of Lit 200,000 in for- eign banknotes left over from trips abroad and may use this exchange for other trips abroad or sell it at any time to an authorized bank. Persons may bring in any amount in Italian or foreign banknotes. Capital Inward and outward movements of nonresident capital are free. However, loans of any kind from nonresidents to residents and from residents to nonresidents require specific authorization from the Ministry of the Treasury or the Ministry of Foreign Trade, respectively, except, with regard to OECD countries, long-term loans (other than loans from financial institutions to nonresidents) for the purpose of establishing or maintaining lasting economic relations and loans to relatives up to the third degree of relationship; and, with regard to EEC countries, short-term (up to one year and not exceeding Lit 250 million) and medium-term (up to five years and not exceeding Lit 50 m i l l ion) financial loans (i.e., loans not connected with commercial operations or the per- formance of services); for none of these is any kind of authorization required. Repayment of such loans may be made freely. Foreign invest- ment in Italy is, in principle, governed by Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 and subsequent im p l em e n t i ng regulations. 226 Direct investment in OECD countries, by physi- cal or juridical persons (other than participation by a financial institution that has its main office in Italy in a foreign company not having the same corporate purpose), is permitted in any form and without any limit. Direct investment in other countries may be made only by juridical persons in firms that are in the same line of business as that of the Italian firm making the investment; other types of direct investment in such countries require special authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these investments also covers the reinvestment of earn- ings and the use for this purpose of the liquidation proceeds of previous investments (af ter crediting the proceeds of the disinvestment to bank accounts similar to those established for export proceeds; see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Residents of Italy are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of Italy or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on foreign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among themselves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities, except securities of Lit 100,000 or less, have to be deposited with an Italian bank or with a bank abroad for account of an Italian bank. Residents are also free to buy and sell shares in foreign mu tual funds or investment trusts, provided that they are quoted on an official stock exchange abroad, with the exception of open-end funds whose holdings include securities that are not quoted on official stock exchanges abroad. All issues of securities by nonresidents on the Italian capital market require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and are subject to the rules governing the issue in Italy of domestic securities. These rules include the prior approval of the Bank of Italy, and, for issues beyond Lit 500 million, that of the Ministry of the Trea- sury, the Ministry of Industry, and the Interminis- terial Credit Committee. Transfers in connection with donations, inheri- tances, and dowries may be made freely. The transfer of property of permanent emigrants is allowed in two stages: up to the equivalent of Lit 4 million 5 a person upon presentation of speci- fied documents at the time of leaving Italy, and the r> On Ap r il 4, 1968 th is a l lowance was increased to Lit 6 m i l l i o n. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution remainder when residence has been established abroad. Special regulations apply to commercial credits and credits related to the performance of services. Advance payments for imports may be made freely if importation is to take place within 360 days; in all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required. Deferred payments for imports are permitted freely if settle- ment is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, within 360 days after importation, and the balance within 24 months after importation; such payments require the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office if the settlement is to take place between 12 months and 24 months after importation. In all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required. Advance payments for exports may be received freely if exportation is to take place within 360 days; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office. Deferred payments for exports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, within 360 days after exporta- tion, and the balance within 24 months after exportation; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Virtually identical regulations are in force for the permitted credit terms for imports and exports of services. In relations with EEC countries, the reciprocal granting of credits for commercial transactions or the performance of services, with a ma tur i ty longer than the time limits that banks are authorized to approve and up to five years, may be effected af ter examination of the documents by the Italian Exchange Office. Loans and credits (the latter only beyond a certain duration, generally 180-360 days) not connected with commercial transactions or with the performance of services require the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. However, finan- cial loans may be granted to or by residents of EEC countries as indicated above. The export is not permitted of securities, except those which are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against U.S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, or externally convertible European cur- ITALY rencies, or against funds on a Foreign Account or Capital Account. Gold Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in Italy. Residents other than the mone- tary .authorities and authorized banks are not allowed to acquire abroad gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by banks on behalf of the monetary authorities and for industrial use. Commercial imports of articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as watches, are liberalized. Changes during 1967 January 28. The max imum value of imports and exports that could be effected without exchange control formalities, and hence without production of currency forms to the customs, was increased from Lit 250,000 to Lit 500,000 per shipment; this limit was fur ther raised to Lit 1 million with effect from December 5, 1967. Imports and exports of goods ranging in value from Lit 500,000 (previously Lit 250,000) to Lit 1 million (previously Lit 500,000) required only a form completed by the importer or exporter instead of a bank certificate. (This limit was fu r- ther raised to Lit 2 million with effect from January 13, 1968.) February 15. The importation of the following goods, as well as their transportation on vessels or a ircraft flying the I ta l ian flag, was prohibited when of Rhodesian origin: asbestos, iron ore, chromium, cast iron, sugar, tobacco, copper, meat and meat products, leather, and hides and skins. Also forbidden was transport to Rhodesia over- land, in Italian aircraft, or in vessels flying the Italian flag, or refueling supplies of petroleum or petroleum products, even if the contracts were drawn up and the relevant permits issued before February 15. Except with special authorization, it was for- bidden to effect transit, intermediary, or transpor- tation operations in respect of goods shipped from or destined for Rhodesia, and to make investments 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY in Rhodesia or to extend credit of any type or duration to Rhodesia. February 15. All exports to Rhodesia required an individual license. Any activity was prohibited that aimed at promoting the sale or dispatch to Rhodesia of arms, ammunition, military aircraft or vehicles, etc. March 14. Imports from and exports to Eastern Germany of commodities not included in Tabella B Import or Tabella Esport, respectively, were liberalized de facto. The customs were authorized to permit such imports and exports, provided that an import or export document established by an authorized bank was submitted; this document required the prior visa of the National Foreign Trade Institute. The procedure was initiated on a temporary, experimental basis, without preju- dice to the principle that all trade with Eastern Germany was subject to ministerial authorization. March 21. Any participation in companies hav- ing their headquarters in Rhodesia, including the purchase of shares in such companies, required individual authorization. March 30. The limit up to which inward and outward payments in respect of current invisibles were exempted from special authorization was raised from Lit 250,000 to Lit 500,000. The cor- responding limit of Lit 250,000 on transactions in specified currencies between banks and nonbank residents also was raised to Lit 500,000, as was the limit of Lit 250,000 on import and export pay- ments that could be settled through postal chan- nels. May 3. The import of a large number of com- modities when originating in and shipped from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, or the U.S.S.R. was liberalized on a unilateral and experimental basis. The customs authorities were authorized to grant direct permission for the import of these commodities without limitation as to quantity or value, regard- less of whether or not they were included in the trade agreements in effect with each of those countries; for a few, however, the prior visa of the National Foreign Trade Institute was required on the import payment form. The provisions of Tabella B Import remained in effect. July 20. Imports from all sources of certain vegetable oils, margarine, and certain other oils and fats were freed from quantitative restrictions. September 5. Imports from all sources of cane and beet sugar were freed from quantitative restric- tions. November 10. The maximum amount of Italian banknotes which residents traveling abroad were permitted to take out, provided that they refrained from obtaining an allocation of foreign exchange, was increased from Lit 500,000 to Lit 1 million. The basic exchange allowance for a resident travel- ing abroad was also increased from the equivalent of Lit 500,000 to that of Lit 1 million (from Lit 300,000 to Lit 500,000 for group trave l). November 10. The amount in Italian banknotes that nonresident travelers could take out was increased from Lit 50,000 to Lit 100,000. November 10. The period within which non- bank residents must surrender foreign exchange was extended from 7 to 30 days after receipt; that within which the taking up of credit abroad must be reported was extended from 15 to 30 days. November 10. The period within which claims on and debts to nonresidents were required to be settled, unless a special authorization for other arrangements had been obtained, was increased to 360 days. 228 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Exchange System No par value for the currency of Ivory Coast has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afri- que de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting from the relation CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market, rate for the currency concerned, and include a com- mission. Forward exchange transactions, which are permitted in any currency except thdt of Rhodesia, and for any period, take place at freely negotiated rates. Except with respect to Rhodesia, there are no restrictions on foreign exchange deal- ings, whe ther spot or forward, by residents or nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. With the exceptions noted below, there are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements, although certain controls are applied to borrowing abroad, to issues and sales of foreign securities in Ivory Coast, and to inward and ou tward direct investment (see section on Capital, be low ). All settlements with Rho- desia are prohibited for noneconomic reasons. In practice, settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area are usually made through cor- respondent banks in France, either in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs; settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are usually made in currencies of that Area, in prac- tice mainly in French francs. The following is applicable to paymen ts and transactions between Ivory Coast and all foreign countries 2 except Rhodesia. Residents are not 1 The CFA f r a nc is issued by the B anque Cen tra le des E t a ts de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the com- mon cu r rency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, M a u r i t a n i a, N ige r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta. 2 Foreign coun t r ies are defined as all coun t r ies o t h er t h an Ivo ry Coast. required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, which may be held in Ivory Coast or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in CFA francs or in any for- eign currency may be held in Ivory Coast by any nonresident. Balances on nonresident accounts may be transferred freely to any type of resident or nonresident account and used for any payment in Ivory Coast or abroad, including the purchase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any paymen t, including any amount of interest. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of foreign or domestic securities. Imports and exports of gold are controlled and restricted; these require prior approval by the M in is try of Economic and Financial A f fa i rs. Ivory Coast's control measures affecting inward and outward direct investment and borrowing abroad do not apply to relations with ( 1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member coun- tries of the West African Monetary Union (Daho- mey, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l t a ); and ( 3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzav i l le), Gabon, and the Malagasy Repub l ic) ,3 provided that they accord Ivory Coast reciprocity in respect of free- dom of payments and transfers. Administration of Control The Directorate of External Finance and Credit in the Ministry of Economic and Financial A f f a i rs supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, adver- tising, or sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast, inward and outward direct investment, and imports and exports of gold. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the inter- mediary of the banks, the postal administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile the balance of payment statistics. All 3 E a r ly in 1968, Ma li also established an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury and liberalized i ts exchange con tro l. 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST banks in Ivory Coast are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licenses, except those for gold, are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Economic and Financial Affa irs. Imports and Import Payments A few imports from all sources are prohibited (a specified type of coffee-husking machine) or subject to import license (sugar, paint, matches, and detergents). Imports of certain commodities, including rice, are linked to purchases of the domestic product. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. As a rule, imports from countries outside this Area require import licenses and may be made in accordance with an import program, which is determined annually by the Department of For- eign Trade. Under this program, semiannual global quotas are established for imports f rom EEC countries other than France, from countries with which Ivory Coast maintains bilateral trade agreements,4 and for imports from all other coun- tries outside the French Franc Area. The last- mentioned global quotas may be used for imports from EEC countries when the corresponding EEC quotas are exhausted. The quotas establish limits up to which import licenses may be issued, for specified commodities, to licensed importers and, in exceptional cases, to industrial or agricul- tural producers who are considered as end-users of the imported goods. The import program also provides for m in imum imports from France of certain products and contains a special ceiling on imports of textiles from certain low-wage coun- tries. Certain products, contained in two libera- lized lists, may be imported freely from any source and from any EEC country other than France, respectively. Imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Certain imports from Mainland China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Pakistan, and Portugal are suspended. Liberalized imports require neither import licenses nor import certificates. Payments for imports from all countries other than Rhodesia may be made freely, at any time, and without any 4 Ivory Coast has bilateral trade agreements w i th A lg e r i a, Israel, Spain, Sweden, Sw i tzer land, and Tunisia. 230 formality. Commodity fu tu res may be dealt in freely, in Ivory Coast or abroad. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. Payments to Rhodesia, however, are prohibited. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may take out any amount in domes- tic and foreign banknotes. Travelers also may freely take out up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are free of license and free of any other formality. Exports of agricultural commod- ities, however, require the visa of the Directorate of Foreign Trade. All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports are free of exchange controls. The repatriation and surrender of export proceeds is not required. Exporters may grant credit for any period and are free to sell forward their antici- pated export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents and the proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. No payments may be received, however, from Rhodesia. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes. Travelers may also bring in up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomina- tion or face value. Capital All capital movements between Ivory Coast and Rhodesia are prohibited. The situation in respect of other countries is as follows. Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license, through banks or any other channel. Foreign and domestic securities of all types may be imported or exported freely, whether through the intermediary of a bank or not, and transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic and foreign real ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution estate (except when forming part of a direct investment) are unrestricted. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation and (except when forming part of a direct investment) may be freely disposed of. Certain controls are maintained over borrow- ing abroad, over inward and outward direct invest- ment, and over the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast, but these con- trols relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Ivory Coast, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in Ivory Coast,5 and Ivory Coast direct investments abroad,6 must be declared to the Minister of Economic and Finan- cial A f fa i rs when they are being made, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits. The Min- ister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The liquidation of direct investments in Ivory Coast or abroad must similarly be declared in advance to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Ivory Coast investments abroad or foreign investments in Ivory Coast, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each opera- tion. Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 5 Including those made by companies in Ivory Coast th at are d irec t ly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Ivory Coast of foreign companies. 6 Inc lud ing those made through the intermediary of foreign companies th at are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Ivory Coast and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Ivory Coast. IVORY COAST 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economic and Financial A f fa i r s, as do issues by Ivory Coast com- panies. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Ivory Coast Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Ivory Coast has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Ivory Coast, or by branches or subsidiaries in Ivory Coast of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economic and Financial Affairs. The following are, however, exempt from this authori- zation: ( 1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Ivory Coast and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be notified to the Min- ister of Economic and Financial A f fa i rs within 20 days, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad is not subject to authorization or declaration. Banks in Ivory Coast may freely grant overdrafts on nonresident accounts for any period. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 pro- vides tax and customs duty benefits and other spe- cial privileges for new enterprises recognized as having priority status. 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Gold Residents are free to hold gold at home or abroad. They are also free to acquire and dispose of gold in any form in Ivory Coast. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Economic and Financial Affairs, which is granted liberally. Exempt f rom this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO, ( 2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles), (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles (other than coins and bars) whose combined weight does not exceed 500 grams, and (4) imports and exports of up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1967 January 1. Arrete No. 3171 made all imports of sugar subject to import license. January 1. By virtue of Law No. 67-198 of May 23, 1967 persons and firms of all EEC mem- ber countries were put on an equal footing in respect of the right of establishment and the per- formance of services. February 16. Ordinance No. 67-45 of Febru- ary 2, 1967 prohibited all monetary transactions with Rhodesia and all imports from and exports to Rhodesia. March 16. By virtue of Arrete No. 566 of February 23, 1967 permission to import rice was made conditional on prior purchases of a specified quan t i ty of domestic rice. May 4. Ivory Coast signed the Protocol of Association for the establishment of a West Afri- can Economic Community. July 1. Law No. 67-285 of June 30, 1967 established the principle that financial relations with foreign countries were free. With minor exceptions, all existing legislation contrary to this principle was revoked, including Law No. 62-62 of February 16, 1962 concerning exchange con- trol. Previously, current and capital payments to all French Franc Area countries were already unrestricted; they were also free of control, as 232 were inward transfers originating in French Franc Area countries. The law also provided for the statistical registration of all inward and outward payments. Normally, the repatriation and surrender of claims, earnings, and proceeds accruing abroad would no longer be required. Banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO could be freely imported and exported. Import and export regu- lations were not affected, although all exchange control formalities were abolished; these included the requirements that import licenses and import certificates be domiciled with an authorized bank, and that exporters sign a foreign exchange com- mitment in respect of all exports to countries out- side the French Franc Area. July 1. Decree No. 67-286 of June 30, 1967 established the principal rules for the application of Law No. 67-33. The decree defined the con- cept of "foreign countries" and indicated the types of capital transactions with foreign countries that would be subject either to declaration or prior approval. It also provided that the import and export of gold, with certain exceptions, required prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The import and domestic negotiation of the cur- rencies of Guinea and Mali ceased to be pro- hibited. July 1. Decree No. 67-287 of June 30, 1967 created a Balance of Payments Committee charged with periodically compiling a national balance of payments. For this purpose, all banks and finan- cial institutions as well as the postal administra- tion were required to notify the BCEAO of all payments between Ivory Coast and foreign coun- tries, all transactions in foreign currency, all trans- actions in CFA francs that affected financial rela- tions with foreign countries, and all transactions in securities between residents and nonresidents. The BCEAO was authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks, the postal administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. July 1. Arrete No. 2320 MAEF/FINEX of July 26, 1967 provided that the declarations and approval applications in respect of the remaining capital controls had to be submitted to the Direc- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST torate of External Finance and Credit in the Min- istry of Economic and Financial Affa irs. This Directorate would also receive applications for import and export licenses for gold; such licenses would be valid for three months. All exchange control formalities in respect of imports and exports were formally abolished, as were all other formalities for liberalized imports and exports; exports of agricultural products, how- ever, required the visa of the Directorate of For- eign Trade. Import and export licenses would normally be valid for six months, July 8. A notice to importers was issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade setting out the new import procedure. 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Jamaican Pound or £J 1 = US$2.40. The cur- rency is freely convertible into sterling at parity, subject to banking commissions. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the buying and selling rates in the London market. The Bank of Jamaica is authorized by law to levy a commission charge of up to % of 1 per cent on inward and outward transfers; on December 31, 1967 these charges were % 6 of 1 per cent on inward transfers and % of 1 per cent on outward transfers. Jamaica accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from Feb- rua ry 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange con- trol on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Ministry is required. The com- mercial banks are designated as authorized dealers and have au thor i ty to release foreign exchange for imports, basic travel allowances, and certain other payments. Most imports are regulated by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Jamaica is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of other Sterling Area countries. Settle- ments w i th other parts of the Sterling Area may be made free ly in any Sterling Area currency. Pay- ments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting Jamaican pounds to an Exter- nal Account or in any foreign currency.1 Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area must be received to the debit of an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Special regula- tions apply to settlements with Rhodesia, and all payments to Rhodesia require specific au thor iza t ion. 1 Fore ign cu r r en c i es are a ll non -S te r l ing Area c u r r e n- cies. 234 Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents of Jamaica and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area. The commercial banks are empowered to open External Accounts in Jamaican pounds for resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area, except Rhodesia. The funds on these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling and may be transferred freely between residents of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area. External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents of the Sterling Area approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresi- dents (e.g., proceeds from the sale of sterling and Jamaican pound securities or other capital pro- ceeds) are designated Blocked Accounts. Blocked funds may be reinvested in Sterling Area securities which are not redeemable either optionally or con- tractually w i th in five years f rom the date of acqui- sition; the income f rom such securities, and the proceeds at ma tu r i ty of any that are redeemable, are normally available for credit to an External Account. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts for use in Jamaica by the non- resident owner must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Following the United Kingdom's decision to dispense with Blocked Accounts, Jamaica decided to continue blocking procedures. However, detailed arrangements for the ultimate release of blocked funds were not finalized in 1967. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported freely under an open general license.2 Other imports, i.e., some 2 The open general license applies to all coun t r ies except A lban ia, Bulgaria, Ma in land China, Cuba, Czecho- s lovak ia, Eastern Ge rmany, H u n g a r y, J ap an, No r th Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Ruman ia, South A f r ica, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 150 tariff items or groups of tariff items included in a special schedule and all imports originating in Mainland China, Japan, the Soviet countries, Rhodesia, South Africa, or Cuba, require indi- vidual import licenses. Licenses for imports from Japan are issued according to criteria of essenti- ality. The special schedule comprises (1) goods for which specific quotas are assigned to importers according to their past performance, e.g., certain types of footwear ( for these items import licenses are granted by the Trade Administrator against allotted quo tas); (2) goods which are prohibited, e.g., automobiles with a wheel base over 116 inches, canned milk, cement, cigars, citrus prod- ucts, cheap clothing, household detergents, sugar, and coffee; and (3) goods the licensing of which depends upon local supply, e.g., poultry, eggs, and vegetables. Payments for imports from the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Payments for imports f rom other countries may be made by crediting an External Account or by pur- chasing non-Sterling Area currency from an authorized dealer, provided that the licensing requirements, if any, have been met, and that the importer presents a copy of the settlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and value, together with documentary evidence that the goods either have been shipped or are about to be shipped, or that the importer is under contract to make pre- payment up to six months prior to shipment; specific exchange control approval is required for advance payments preceding shipment by more than six months. Certain goods are subject to a 5 per cent con- sumption tax ( 2% per cent on coloring materials), whether they are imported or manufactured domestically. Where such goods are imported, the tax is collected at the port of entry and is calcu- lated on the sum of the value accepted for customs, plus the customs du ty plus the tonnage tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles originating in the Ster- ling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Payments for invisibles originating out- side the Sterling Area require the approval of the U.S.S.R., and No r th Viet-Nam. Goods imported under the license must be consigned f rom one of the permitted countries and must also originate in a perm i t ted coun try. JAMAICA authorities. Except for transactions involving resi- dents of Rhodesia, the following applies. Approval is granted freely for payments for all commercial transactions, when the application is supported by the appropriate documentary evidence. For pay- ments for certain other purposes, e.g., insurance premiums, approval is granted upon request. A basic exchange allocation of <£J 250 for each journey for travel other than for business and pro- fessional reasons outside the Sterling Area is made available automatically to residents by the author- ized dealers; the central bank authorizes the release 'of additional amounts for bona fide tourist travel if the excess is considered reasonable. Facili- ties for travel for business and professional reasons outside the Sterling Area may be provided by authorized banks at the rate of <£ J 20 a day for a period of one month. Expenses for hotel accom- modations, meals en route, etc., that are settled in Jamaica in sterling must be deducted from the travel allocations. Residents must obtain prior approval f rom the Bank of Jamaica to make cash gifts, which cannot exceed £J 250 in a calendar year f rom each donor, to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Authorized dealers may, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence, sell non-Sterling Area currency for the following: re funds of income tax due to nonresidents; consu- lar fees without limit, as well as transfers f rom the Ministry of External Affa irs to accounts in the names of embassies and their established staffs, High Commissioners, and diplomats; up to a limit of £J 1,000 for (1) advertising and promotional expenses, (2) renewal and re fund of premiums due to nonresident insurers, and ( 3) subscriptions to trade organizations; up to a limit of £J 2,000 for commissions and expenses due by Jamaican firms to their agents and representatives and for serial rights in Jamaica of newspaper and magazine articles, photographs, strip cartoons, etc.; specified payments, up to a limit of £ J 2,500, that are due by Jamaican insurers to nonresident insured par- ties under life or endowment insurance policies; agents' expenses and fees, up to <£ J 2,500, due by Jamaican insurers to nonresidents in respect of direct insurance policies. With the exception of tourist travel, requests for additional amounts or for purposes for which there are no standard limits (e.g., remittances by charitable institutions) are approved if the authorities are satisfied that no capital flight is involved. 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA Travelers going abroad may take with them Jamaican banknotes not exceeding £J 10 and other notes, with the exception of U.K. notes, not exceeding £J 100 in value. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over £J 10 to countries outside the Sterling Area require export licenses. Certain other exports require individual licenses irrespective of destination; these include all re- exports and some exports (mostly agricultural products) that are subject to licensing to ensure adequate local supplies. Exporters to countries in the Sterling Area are not required to repatriate their export proceeds; exporters to other countries are required to surrender their exchange proceeds, which must be obtained in a non-Sterling Area cur- rency, to authorized dealers within six months from the date of shipment. However, certain exporters may retain, with the approval of the exchange control authorities, an agreed portion of their proceeds to facilitate the import of items necessary for their operations. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in non-Sterling Area currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Receipts in Sterling Area currencies may be retained. Travelers to Jamaica may bring in Jamaican banknotes up to £J 10 (i.e., <£ stg. 10) a traveler, notes of other Sterling Area territories up to an aggregate value of <£ J 10 a traveler, and any amount of non-Sterling Area banknotes; resi- dent travelers are required to sell their holdings of non-Sterling Area currencies to a local authorized dealer. Capital There are no restrictions on investments in the Sterling Area by residents. Investments in non- Sterling Area securities require the approval of the exchange control authorities, and such securities must be purchased with investment currency, which may be obtained only in the United King- dom. The sale of securities, whether sterling secu- rities or foreign currency securities, by residents of Jamaica to nonresidents of the Sterling Area may 236 be allowed, provided that the full proceeds are received in External Account sterling or in non- Sterling Area currency; the latter must be sur- rendered to an authorized dealer in Jamaica. Pur- chases of property for personal use outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the exchange control authorities, and such property may be pur- chased only through the United Kingdom and only with property currency. Direct investments in the Sterling Area may be made freely by residents. Direct investments in other countries are only permitted through the investment currency market in the United Kingdom. Direct investments in Jamaica by nonresidents for which "approved status" is sought require the approval of the exchange control authorities (which is usually granted) and must be made in the currency appropriate to the country of perma- nent residence of the investor, in External Account sterling, or in goods and services in lieu of cash. To qualify for "approved status," an enterprise must have adequate capital and the nonresident investor must take an active part in management. For foreign investments granted "approved sta- tus," repatriation of the capital (including any appreciation in value) is permitted at any time; remittances of profits and dividends are permitted when the application is supported by the appropri- ate set of accounts. Remittances of profits result- ing from foreign investment in respect of which "approved status" was not sought or granted are not restricted, but the realization of the invested capital (if the enterprise is bought by a resident) has to take place through Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Payments for amortization of, and interest on, foreign loans (i.e., loans made by nonresidents of the Sterling Area) are permitted upon application to the exchange control authorities. However, non- residents are not normally permitted to take secu- rity in respect of loans made to Jamaican compa- nies owned or controlled by them. Authorized dealers may, without reference to the exchange control authorities, make loans or overdrafts to nonresident individuals and nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled Jamaican companies, up to £J 1,000 and £J 10,000, respectively. Other requests are referred to the Bank of Jamaica. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Transfers to nonresident beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been met. Repatriates taking up residence in the country of their nationality outside the Sterling Area may transfer all their sterling assets at the official mar- ket rate of exchange. Jamaican nationals emigrat- ing to countries outside the Sterling Area are granted a settling-in allowance of the equivalent of £J 5,000 at the official market rate of exchange; any sterling assets in excess of the allowance are restricted for four years but may at any time be transferred outside the Sterling Area through the investment currency market in the United Kingdom. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for num isma t ic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jew- elry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- ta ry au thor i t ies and industrial users. Changes during 1967 Dur ing the year, many imports were added to the list of exceptions to the open general license; these included all types of ear thmov ing machinery and electric cables. March 17. The Bank of Jamaica's commission charge on inward transfers was reduced from %c of 1 per cent to % of 1 per cent. May 4. An amendment to the First Schedule to the Exchange Control Law, 1954 excluded Rhodesia f rom Jamaica's definition of the Sterling Area. June 9. The consumption tax was raised f rom 21 /{> to 5 per cent for all commodities subject to it, except coloring materials. The tax was also applied at the rate of 5 per cent to a number of commodi- ties previously not subject to it. September 18. Repatriates tak ing up residence in the coun t ry of the ir na t iona l i ty outside the Ster- l ing Area could t ran s fer all the ir sterling assets at JAMAICA the official market rate of exchange; blocking of their sterling assets under Section 42 of the Exchange Control Law would in f u t u re not nor- mally be imposed. The amount for which the commercial banks had delegated authority to approve transfer was reduced from <£J 5,000 to <£ J 2,500. Previously, repatriates could receive in the coun t ry of their nationality, after emigration, a settling-in allowance of the equivalent of «£ J 5,000 for each fam i ly unit from their declared sterling assets; the remainder either was released at the rate of «£ J 3,600 a year at the official rate, on the annual anniversary of the date of their departure, or was restricted under Section 42 of the Exchange Control Law for five years, with the option of dis- posing of these funds at any time through the security sterling market. September 18. The period of restriction of sterling assets in excess of the settling-in allowance of <£J 5,000 that were declared by Jamaican nationals emigrating to countries outside the Ster- ling Area was reduced from five to four years. As previously, at any time du r ing this period, these excess assets could be transferred outside the Sterling Area through the investment currency market. The amount for which the commercial banks had delegated au thor i ty to approve transfer at the official market rate of exchange was reduced f rom £J 5,000 to <£ J 2,500. September 20. For all types of travel, travel services such as hotel accommodation that were settled in sterling in Jamaica were deducted from the exchange allocation. The period for which authorized banks could provide exchange, at the rate of £J 20 a day, for business and pro- fessional travel outside the Sterling Area, was reduced f rom three months to one mon th. Passport ma rk ing was reintroduced for all foreign exchange granted for travel outside the Sterling Area. October 2. The au tho r i ty former ly delegated to commercial banks to permit residents to make cash gifts up to <£ J 250 in any one year to persons resi- dent outside the Sterling Area was withdrawn. Applications hencefor th had to be made to the Bank of Jama ica, which normally permitted such g if ts up to the same annual amount. October 26. All non-Sterling Area currencies were designated specified currencies. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA November 18. Sterling was redefined as cur- rency issued by the Government of the United Kingdom (previously it was defined as any Sterling Area currency, including the Jamaican pound) and was considered a foreign currency. The Sched- uled Territories were redefined to mean Jamaica; this had the result of extending exchange control to transactions with the Sterling Area. November 21. The par value was changed from <£J 1 = US$2.80 to £J 1 = US$2.40. November 22. The Bank of Jamaica's commis- sion charge on outward transfers was increased from % of 1 per cent to % of 1 per cent, and that on inward transfers was reduced from % of 1 per cent to YIQ of 1 per cent. November 28. The obligation for the Bank of Jamaica to issue Jamaican notes in exchange for sterling to any person on demand, and to redeem Jamaican notes for sterling on demand, was limited to dealings with commercial banks. December 6. The Scheduled Territories, ster- ling, and foreign currency were redefined as they were defined prior to November 18, 1967. As a result, exchange control no longer was applied to the Sterling Area. December 7. Restrictions on imports from Japan were relaxed by the issuance of licenses for imports from that country of the less expensive lines of textile fabrics. 238 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00246853 gram of fine gold per Japanese Yen or ¥ 360.00 = US$1. The offi- cial limits of buy ing and selling rates for U.S. dol- lars (spo t), which are set by the Ministry of Finance, are ¥ 362.70 (upper l im i t) and ¥357.30 (lower l im i t ), per US$1; the exchange authorities will buy or sell exchange at rates within this range. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions. Japan accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (M IT I ), and the Bank of Japan as the Government's agent. However, much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licensing is handled by MITI. Inward capital investments of a long-term character require the approval of the Minister of Finance (in some cases at the same time that of the competent Min- ister) a f ter deliberation by the Foreign Investment Council. Outward capital investments require the approval of the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any currency, and receipts may be obtained in any of the designated receivable cu r renc ies ;a receipts in other currencies require an individual license. Set- tlements in yen with foreign countries must be made through a Nonresident Free Yen Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two main nonresident accounts, as described below. 1. Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. These accounts may in principle be opened by any non- 1 In add i t ion to yen, the designated receivable c u r r e n- cies are Au s t ra l ian dollars, Au s t r i an sch i l l ings, Be lg ian francs, Canadian do l lars, Danish k rone r, deu tsche m a r k, French f ranc s, I t a l i an l i re, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds s t e r l i n g, Swedish kroner, Swiss f ranc s, and U.S. do l l a r s. resident with any authorized bank in Japan and may be credited with the yen proceeds from exports of goods to Japan and from other author- ized transactions incidental thereto, with yen pro- ceeds from sales of designated receivable foreign currencies, with transfers from other Free Yen Accounts, and with the countervalue in yen of authorized outward payments. There are no restrictions on payments from these accounts. The yen balances on these accounts may be converted into any foreign currency. 2. Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. They may be credited with yen proceeds from transactions other than those which are authorized to be credited to Non- resident Free Yen Accounts. Permitted credits to Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts include pro- ceeds from the sales of debentures and beneficiary certificates sold within six months from the date of validated acquisition, proceeds from sales of fixed assets which a nonresident acquired when he was a resident, and yen in excess of the amount of US$10,000 which emigrants of foreign nationality leaving Japan permanently are allowed to take out of Japan. Balances on these accounts are not convertible into foreign currencies, although remit- tances are permitted each year up to one fifth of the balance at the end of the previous year or the equivalent of US$2,000, whichever is the higher. Withdrawals from these accounts are authorized for certain purposes, such as meeting the outlays involved in managing investments in Japan and the expenses of nonresidents staying in Japan. Transfers to other Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts are authorized freely, thus enabling the individual account holder to repatriate his funds by selling them to another nonresident in re turn for foreign currency. In addition, there are Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts in which certain proceeds from invest- ments liquidated by foreigners may be placed. Balances on these accounts may be used for remit- tances abroad or for making other investments under certain conditions. However, these accounts are of limited importance, because proceeds from foreigners' liquidated investments may be remitted through Nonresident Free Yen Accounts without 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN having been placed in Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts. Imports and Import Payments Most imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Other imports are subject to individual licensing by the authorized banks, but in practice 93 per cent of nongovernment imports are liberalized. There are d ifferent licensing procedures for imports requiring payment in foreign currencies: (1) Under the Import Quota System (covering imports of goods on the "negative list," which comprises 124 i tems ), the importer must first obtain from MITI an import quota, which is based on the quan t i ta t ive principle. If the quota is granted, the importer receives an import quota certificate which entitles him to receive an import license from an authorized bank automatically upon appli- cation. Practically all import quota certificates are issued on a global basis, without regard to the country of origin or the currency of settlement. ( 2) Under the Automatic Import Quota System, import quotas for specified categories of imports are granted automatically on a global basis and w i thout restriction by MITI. (3) Under the Automatic Approval System, imports are, in effect, free of quantitative restriction, since licenses to import the commodities specified under this system are issued freely and without limitation by the authorized banks, on application. All items subject to the Automatic Approval System may be imported from any country, except, for some of these items, from Rhodesia. Payment for imported goods must be made under one of the standard methods of settlement for imports (generally w i th in a period from the date of receipt of the shipping documents or the goods to four months af ter customs clearance). When the settlement proposal is not in accord- ance with one of the standard methods, prior approval of MITI must be obtained. In general, importers must make a deposit with an authorized bank when applying for an import license; curren t ly the amount of this deposit is 1 per cent or 5 per cent of the value of the intended imports, depending on the goods to be imported ( for imports from the Ryukyu Islands and the Bonin Islands, the deposit is V io °f 1 Per c e n t ). The deposit is returned a f ter 80 per cent of the goods has been imported or if the import transac- 240 tion is canceled for a reason acceptable to the control authorities. The percentage of deposit can be increased or decreased. The 1 per cent deposit may be made in cash, securities, or other collateral; the 5 per cent deposit must be made in cash. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval. How- ever, most such payments are approved freely by authorized banks w i thout any limitation or within certain established limits. Payments for certain invisibles, including payments that exceed the established limits, are referred to the Bank of Japan for the purpose of capital control; except for certain travel expenditures, they are automati- cally approved without undue delay, upon verifica- tion of the authenticity of the current transaction. For tourism, other travel for personal reasons, and business travel, an allowance equivalent to US$500 a person a trip is automatically made available; for additional amounts, special authori- zation is required. A traveler is permitted to pay in yen, before departure, the cost of transportation to and from his destination. Certain contracts require approval; but when a license for a contract has been granted, any payment resulting from the contract may be made freely. Settlements which are not made under a "standard" method require, in principle, individual approval; under this method, payments for services, etc., may not be made more than three months before, or later than six months after, receipt of the services, etc. Both residents and nonresidents may take out freely ¥ 20,000 in Japanese currency. A nonresi- dent may take out freely foreign currencies up to the amount which he brought into Japan. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports (except exports without exchange) must be registered with an authorized bank ("bank cer- t if ica t ion"), in order that the requirements con- cerning prescription of currency and surrender of proceeds may be enforced. Licenses are not generally required, except for goods subject to the following restrictions: restric- tions on strategic goods to control their export to communist countries; restrictions on goods in short supply in the domestic market (e.g., minerals, fer- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tilizers, and staple food s ); and restrictions designed to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., on such com- modities as pottery and porcelain, sewing machines, and certain tex t i les ). Exports under processing and consignment sale contracts and exports for which settlement is not under the standard method also require individual licenses. Under the standard method of settlement for exports, the value of the exported goods must, in general, be settled by drawing a bill of exchange payable w i th in five months a f ter sight or w i th in six months a f ter shipment in a designated receiv- able currency. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in 10 days from the date of acquisition. However, trad- ing concerns resident in Japan may be permitted to hold foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized banks, in which they may keep their proceeds in U.S. dollars and /or sterling f rom exports and invisibles for a max imum of 20 days; du r ing this period, they may use the exchange to make approved paymen ts for their imports or for cu r rent invisibles, or sell it to the authorized banks for yen. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts under the standard method of settle- ment may be accepted w i thout a license. Under this method, receipts for the va lue of services, etc., must be obtained w i th in one year before, or w i th in six mon ths a f te r, rendering the service, etc. But contracts for services performed for nonresi- dents when payment is to be received by a non- standard method are subject to ind iv idual licens- ing. Receipts f rom invisibles mus t, as a rule, be surrendered. However, in order to fac i l i ta te pay- men ts for current invisibles, specified residents (sh ipp ing companies, etc .) are authorized to keep foreign currency deposit accounts w i th banks in the designated receivable foreign currencies. Both residents and nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in foreign or Japanese currency. Capital Foreign inves tmen ts in Japan are generally sub- ject to approval, ma in ly in accordance w i th the Foreign Inves tment Law (Law No. 163 of May 10, 1950) or the Foreign Exchange Control Law JAPAN (Law No. 228 of December 1, 1949). All acquisi- tions of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary cer- tificates, and claims in the form of loans by foreign investors are in principle subject to validation or license. However, acquisitions of stocks in the securities ma rket are au toma t ica l ly approved by the Bank of Japan as follows: up to 20 per cent total foreign participation in the stock of a corpo- ration not classified as a restricted industry, up to 15 per cent total foreign participation in the stock of a corporation classified as a restricted indus t ry ,- and up to 7 per cent of the total capital of any corporation if acquired by a single holder. Acqui- sition of stock for participation in management is subject, except in the case of newly established companies in the liberalized industries, to indi- v idual screening, but it is approved in principle if there is no adverse effect on the Japanese econ- omy. All these acquisitions must be made against yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or its equ iva lent if the investor wishes to obtain remit- tance rights upon validation. Stocks in the form of stock dividends on earned surplus or revaluation of assets may be acquired freely, but application for rem i t tance rights must be made w i th in three mon ths f rom the date of acquisition. The fo l low ing are deemed to be the same as yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange, if they are reinvested in Japan and if approval had been obtained for their acquisition: proceeds f rom the redemption a f t er ma tu r i ty of debentures, beneficiary certifi- cates, or claims in the form of loans; dividends on stocks; interest on debentures or on c la ims in the form of loans; d is tr ibu ted profits of beneficiary certificates; receipts f rom technological assistance contracts; and proceeds f rom sales of stocks, debentures, and benef ic iary certificates. In the event of expropriation or compulsory sale of a foreign inves tmen t, the amount paid on account of expropriation may be repatriated free ly. Rem i t tance of the proceeds f rom the sale of validated stock, as well as t rans fer abroad of earn- ings on foreign investments acquired w i th foreign currency, is perm i t ted. Proceeds f rom the sale of validated debentures and benef ic iary certificates may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen - R e s t r i c t ed i n d u s t r i es i n c l u de w a t e rw o r k s, r a i lw a ys and o t h er t r a n s p o r t a t i o n, e lec t r ic and gas u t i l i t i e s, and b a n k s. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Accounts, if the securities have been held for six mon ths f rom the date of acquisition. participation is considered exceptionally detri- mental to Japan's interests. Proceeds from the sale of stocks, bonds, deben- tures, beneficiary certificates, etc., acquired w i th yen w i thd rawn f rom Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, provided that the securities have been held for at least three years f rom the date of acquisition (or from December 18, 1964 for securities acquired before that d a t e ). Repaymen ts of loans extended to residents from Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts become remittable, subject to licensing by the Bank of Japan, beginning three years f rom the date of the loan. When foreign companies desire to establish a branch or a plant in Japan, they are required to inform the Ministry of Finance and MITI through the Bank of Japan. When branches or plants established by foreign companies wish to bring in funds from their ma in offices abroad, they are required to obtain licenses. The branches estab- lished in accordance with approved procedures are permitted to remit their profits and principal abroad. Foreign investment in Japan generally requires approval by the Minister of Finance (in some cases, at the same time the approval of the com- petent Minister) af ter deliberation by the Foreign Investment Council. However, foreign investment aimed at setting up new jo int ventures in those industries listed in Categories A and B of the Liberalization List are au toma t ica l ly approved by the competent Ministers. For foreign investment in the indus tr ies listed in Category A (33 indus- t r ies ), however, the au toma t ic approval will be given only if the foreign capital ratio does not exceed 50 per cent, while investments in Category B (17 indus tr ies) will be automatically approved w i thout restriction on the extent of foreign partici- pation. Even where investments for establishing new enterprises in the 50 liberalized industries are concerned, however, individual screening is required in the following instances: ( 1) when the setting up of new companies is only nominal and when these companies may be actually scheduled for eventual merger with companies already in existence; ( 2) when foreign capital may have the controlling power over management in the indus- tries listed in Category A; or ( 3) when foreign 242 Purchases by nonresidents of real estate in Japan for residential or other nonprofit purposes and of offices require approval by the Bank of Japan; purchases of real estate for other purposes require approval by the Ministry of Finance. The t rans fer abroad of capital by residents and the mak ing of investments abroad are subject to approval. Japanese emigrants may remit all their liquid assets to their new country of domicile sub- ject only to verification by an authorized bank or the Bank of Japan. Emigrants of foreign nation- ality leaving Japan may remit to their new country of domicile up to US$10,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies; additional amoun ts may be granted according to the merits of each case. The rema in ing liquid assets in Japan of such for- eigners may be credited to Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. Securities acquired w i th approval under the Foreign Investment Law may be imported and exported freely. Gold Domestic producers must sell 5 per cent of their production to the Government, at ¥ 405 per gram (equ iva lent to US$35 a troy ounce ); subject to government guidance, they may sell the remainder at ¥ 660 a gram for domestic industrial and dental use. The Government from time to time purchases gold in the London market for resale at ¥ 660 a gram to m in ing companies, which must resell in turn, at the same price, to processors. Exports and other imports of gold are not permitted. Resi- dents other than gold producers and industrial users are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Japan. Changes during 1967 February 75. Re-exports of coffee beans and exports of coffee products were prohibited. July 1. The l im i ta t ions were relaxed on the au toma t ic approval procedure of the Bank of Japan governing the acquisition of the stocks of domestic companies by foreign investors for pur- poses other than participation in management. The l im it on the acquisition by foreign investors ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN as a group of the stock of a corporation not classi- fied as a restricted industry was raised from 15 per cent to 20 per cent, and that on such acquisition of the stock of a corporation classified as a restricted industry from 10 per cent to 15 per cent; the limit on the acquisition by a single holder of the stock of any corporation was raised from 5 per cent to 7 per cent. July 1. A liberalization program for inward direct investment was adopted. The new system involved the automatic approval of applications for the acquisition of stocks by foreign investors for participation in newly established companies in certain industries (designated as liberalized indus- tr ies), provided that specific requirements were met. Japanese industries were divided into a liberalized category and a nonliberalized category. The former consisted of Category A, for which automatic approval would only be given if foreign ownership did not exceed 50 per cent (33 indus- tr ies), and Category B, for which approval would be given without restriction on the extent of foreign participation (17 industries). 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Jordan Dinar or JD 1 = US$2.80. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are US$2.82 buying, and US$2.78 selling, per JD 1. The rate of the Central Bank of Jordan for the pound sterling is JD 1 = <£ 1 3s. 4d., buying and selling. Authorized banks deal in U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies at rates usually based on the rates in the New York market. A fee of 4 per cent is levied on the issue of import licenses. A fee of ^o of 1 per cent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Cen- tral Bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institutions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank of Jordan, which also issues exchange licenses; the Central Bank has, however, delegated to author- ized banks the issuance of exchange licenses up to a permitted annual limit for payments for educa- tional expenses of Jordanians studying abroad. Import policy is formu la ted by an Import Com- mittee, which is composed of the Controller of Imports, the Undersecretary for National Econ- omy, the Director of Customs, the Director of the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank, the Director of Income Tax, and two repre- sentatives of the Chamber of Commerce. The decisions of the Import Committee are carried out by the Controller of Imports of the Ministry of National Economy. Prescription of Currency Jordan is a member of the Sterling Area, and most of its trade is financed in sterling. Payments to residents of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. In practice, such pay- ments are made in sterling to a Resident Account in the United Kingdom, or in Jordan d inars to a nonresident Sterling Area Account w i th an author- ized bank in Jordan. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area (except Yugo- s l av i a )1 must be made in sterling to an External 1 Und er an ag reement w i th the Yugos lav B a nk for Foreign Trade, the proceeds of e x p o r ts of J o r d a n i an 244 Account in the United Kingdom, or in Jordan dinars to a nonresident External Account with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in currency appro- priate to the country of residence of the recipient and/or the country of origin of the goods. Proceeds from exports and invisibles must be collected, and surrendered where required, as follows: from residents of the Sterling Area, in resident sterling or in Jordan dinars from a non- resident Sterling Area Account with an authorized bank in Jordan; from residents of countries out- side the Sterling Area, in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Jordan dinars f rom a nonresident External Account with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in any convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank of Jordan, authorized banks may open non- resident accounts designated either Sterling Area Accounts or External Accounts, according to the permanent residence of the account holder. These accounts must be fed with appropriate funds. The approval of the Central Bank of Jordan is neces- sary for redesignation of residence, for transfers from resident to nonresident accounts, and for transfers from Sterling Area Accounts to External Accounts. Transfers between similarly designated nonresident accounts, transfers from External Accounts to Sterling Area Accounts, and transfers from nonresident to resident accounts are per- mitted freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items - f rom any source and all imports from Israel and Rhodesia are pro- hibited. All other imports, unless covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting coun- try (i.e., agricultural products from neighboring countries and imports covered by the Arab Com- phospha tes to Yugos lav ia may be used on ly to m ake paymen ts to Yugos lav ia for impo r ts of Yugos lav goods and app roved inv is ib les. -'These in c lude ca rbon ic acid; a r ak; alcohol; non a l- coholic beverages; cigarettes; d iese l-eng ined cars, lorr ies, and buses; maca ron i, spaghe t t i, and s im i lar p roduc ts; m i l i ta ry u n i f o rm s; and l iqu id batteries. Impor ts of bar- ley, len t i ls, olives, olive oil, and some other a g r i c u l t u r al commod i t ies are proh ib i ted in good crop years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution mon Market Ag reemen t ), require import licenses if their c.i.f. value is JD 50 or more. These are granted freely by the Ministry of National Econ- omy, except for certain items 3 which are subject to scrutiny by the Minister of National Economy (whose prior approval is also required for imports of industrial machinery and of all materials needed for the establishment or expansion of an industrial firm) or scrutiny by the competent ministry. Importers of tea and iron bars must obtain 75 per cent and 50 per cent, respectively, of their annual requirements f rom India. Imports require an exchange license f rom the Central Bank. Exchange licenses are granted auto- matically when an import license has been obtained. A fee of 4 per cent is levied on licenses for imports that are to be paid for in any currency other than Jordan dinars. Import licenses are valid for 12 months. The importer must complete the process of importation w i th in the period of validity of the license. He may either open a letter of credit or pay against docu- men ts. In either case an exchange license from the Central Bank is required. With minor exceptions, imports should, in prin- ciple, enter the country through the port of Aqaba; goods that do not meet this requirement are sub- ject to a penalty of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value, unless the goods enter through Beirut or Latakia, when the penalty is 2 per cent. Imports that require an import license also require an exchange license, which is granted auto- ma t ica l ly. A fee of Yi o of 1 per cent is levied on exchange licenses for imports, except those made by government depar tmen ts and certain approved institutions. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for invisibles are subject to exchange control approval. Payments for the fol- lowing types of invisibles are generally permitted up to certain limits: income of nonresidents; sav- ings of foreign nationals who intend to re turn to their own countries; remittances to refugee depen- 3 These i t ems on the " res t r ic ted list" in c lude ghee, m a r g a r i n e, and o ther vege tab le f a t s; t om a to j u i c e; sac- c h a r i n e; D u l c i n; p e c t i n; p e t ro l eum p r o d u c ts ( ex c ept a v i- a t ion f u e l ); de te rgen t s; supe rpho spha te s; c em en t; t a n n ed l e a th e r; am u s em e nt m a ch in e s; b l a n k e t s; woolen rug s; paper n a p k i ns a nd s im i l ar p rodu c t s; d ry b a t t e r i e s; shav- i ng l o t i o n; a nd t o o t h p a s t e. JORDAN dents; reasonable living expenses of Jordanian nationals abroad; expenses of Jordan ian residents traveling abroad; expenditures for education; expenses of medical trea tmen t; business expenses abroad; and insurance paymen ts in accordance with special regulations. Remittances for fam i ly maintenance may be made by postal order at a rate not exceeding JD 10 a month to any one per- son resident abroad. The policy in respect of pay- ments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and non- discriminatory. Residents traveling to any of the other A rab countries may take out up to JD 100 in Jordan ian notes and coins or its equivalent in foreign cur- rency. All travelers to other destinations may take out up to JD 25 in domestic notes and coins or the equivalent in foreign currency. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coins and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared upon entry. All travelers may take out checks, travelers checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan in accordance w i th exchange permits authorized by the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds exceeding JD 50 must be col- lected and the foreign exchange, including sterling, surrendered. Proceeds from exports to Arab League countries of agricultural products and locally manufac tured goods are exempt f rom the surrender requirement, except for the products of tobacco and cigarette factories, the phosphate company, the dyeing and tann ing company, the cement plant, and the petroleum refinery; also exempt are proceeds f rom exports to Iran of agri- cu l tural products. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange (including sterling) receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to an author- ized bank. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in a max imum of JD 100 in Jordan ian currency notes and any amount in foreign currencies. Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any for- eign currency ( inc lud ing s ter l ing) at his disposal. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Capital Capital may be imported freely, but exports of capital require approval and normally are not allowed. Current income resulting from nonresi- dent investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, effective January 16, 1967 (Law No. 1 of 1967), profits from approved foreign invest- ments may be remitted, without limitation, in the currency of the original investment. A f ter two years repatriation of the capital is permitted in three equal annual installments in the same foreign currency in which the original investment was made. The Investment Committee may approve more liberal provisions. All transactions under the investment law require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or investment pur- poses. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1967 January 16. The Law for the Encouragement of Investment (Law No. 1 of 1967) came into effect, superseding the Law for the Encourage- ment and Guidance of Industry (Law No. 27 of 1955, as amended) and the Law for the Encour- agement of Investment of Foreign Capital (Law No. 28 of 1955, as amended ). The new law removed the ceiling of 10 per cent a year on the transfer of profits from approved investments and increased the period af ter which capital repatria- tion could begin from one to two years after the date of the investment. March 11. In accordance with a decision of the twenty-fourth Arab League Conference, the 246 import of the products of nine specified foreign companies was prohibited. On May 22, this pro- hibition was extended to the products of three specified U.S. companies. May 1. The fee of %0 of 1 per cent on exchange licenses for invisibles was abolished. June 12. The Central Bank required the banks to restrict withdrawals from existing balances in current accounts, savings accounts, and other bank accounts to JD 200 a month for each account holder; exempt were cash withdrawals from the accounts of government departments and agen- cies, diplomatic missions, the UN and its agencies, foreign depositors holding nonresident accounts, religious and benevolent institutions, hospitals, and certain commercial and industrial companies. June 12. The Central Bank terminated the authority delegated to the commercial banks to issue exchange licenses for the opening of docu- mentary import credits and for import payments. Henceforth, these exchange licenses were granted by the Central Bank. June 24. Imports could enter Jordan through any port; previously, they were, with minor excep- tions, required to enter through Aqaba. August 7. For imports entered through Beirut or Latakia, the penalty on goods not imported through the port of Aqaba was reduced from 10 per cent to 5 per cent. August 22. The penalty on goods imported through Beirut or Latakia was reduced from 5 per cent to 2 per cent. September 9. Authorized banks were allowed to issue exchange licenses for payments in respect of educational expenses of Jordanians studying abroad, up to JD 25 for each payment, with a limit of four such payments for each recipient in any one year. These payments were additional to the allocations made by the Central Bank for Jordanian nationals studying abroad. October 21. The amount of currency that resi- dents traveling to other Arab countries could take out was raised from JD 25 to JD 100 in Jordanian notes and coins or its equivalent in foreign notes and coins. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Kenya Shilling or K Sh 7.14286 = US$1. There is a fixed relationship between the Kenya shilling and the pound sterling at <£! = K Sh 17.1429. The Kenya shilling circulates concurrently with the East African shilling previously issued by the East African Currency Board, which has ceased to be legal tender and is being withdrawn from circulation. The official buying and selling rates of the pound sterling d iffer from parity by Y32 per cent and ^ 6 per cent, respectively. The Cen- tral Bank of Kenya deals with authorized banks at these rates, and the public in its tu rn deals with the authorized banks. The Central Bank does not deal in foreign currencies l other than sterling. Banks in Kenya base their rates for such foreign currencies on the current market rates in London. East African shillings continue to be exchanged at the rate of K Sh 20 for EA Sh 20, but East African shillings imported with specific exchange control approval are redeemed at a rate of K Sh 17.1429 for EA Sh 20. Administration of Control The Minister for Finance has delegated the administration of exchange control to the Cen- tral Bank of Kenya. Authority for approving normal import payments, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments to countries other than Tanzania and Uganda is delegated to the authorized banks. Import and export controls are administered by the Director of Trade and Supplies in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The responsibility for issuing import and export licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications should be sub- mitted by the importer or exporter in Kenya before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. The government-owned Kenya National Trading Corporation, Ltd., has a monopoly over the import of rice and certain textiles, and the Min- istry of Commerce and Industry is the sole 1 Foreign currenc ies are all currencies other than the Kenya sh i l l ing, the Tanzania sh i l l ing, the Uganda sh i l l ing, and the East A f r i c an s h i l l i n g. importer of sugar for consumption. Certain agri- cultural imports and exports are effected by State Marketing Boards. Together with Tanzania and Uganda, Kenya is part of the East African currency area. Payments from Kenya to Tanzania and Uganda are free of restrictions. Prescription of Currency Kenya is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom; all set- tlements with Tanzania and Uganda, however, must be effected in East African currency.2 Pay- ments to residents of countries in the rest of the Sterling Area other than Tanzania and Uganda may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of a Nonresident Sterling Area Account in Kenya or in any other Sterling Area currency; receipts from such countries must be obtained in Kenya shillings from a Nonresident Sterling Area Account in Kenya or in any other Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Kenya to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Kenya shil- lings to the credit of an External Account in Kenya, or in any other non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds that is appropriate to the coun- try of residence of the payee. Receipts from coun- tries outside the Sterling Area other than Rho- desia may be obtained in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Kenya shil- lings from an External Account in Kenya, or in any other specified currency 3 that is not a Ster- ling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. 2 East A f r ican currency comprises Kenya shillings, Tanzania shillings, and Uganda shillings. 3 The specified currencies are listed as follows: Aus- t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwe- gian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, the Uganda shilling, and the East Afr ican s h i l l i n g. 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Tanzania and Uganda. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments to such Sterling Area countries by Kenya residents, with transfers from other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, with transfers from External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Kenya of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) or gold by residents of any country outside the Sterling Area. They may be debited freely for payments for exports to other countries in the Sterling Area except Tanzania and Uganda and other payments due by residents of other coun- tries in the Sterling Area except Tanzania and Uganda to Kenya residents, for payments to resi- dents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Tanzania and Uganda for any purpose, for transfers to other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts in Kenya, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Kenya; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Tanzania or Uganda has been obtained, Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Kenya or elsewhere in the Sterling Area and for purchases in Kenya of any non- Sterling Area currency or gold from authorized dealers. Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) and gold by nonresi- dents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Tanzania or Uganda has been obtained, External Accounts may also be credited with transfers from Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts. External Accounts may be debited 248 freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts in Kenya or in any other Sterling Area country, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed pro- cedures, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Kenyan Government or by local authorities and officially quoted in Kenya ;4 the redemption proceeds of these securities, which must have a life of five years at the time of acquisi- tion, are transferable, and interest is freely trans- ferable to nonresidents as and when it accrues. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Kenya, and to Blocked Accounts in Tanzania and Uganda, require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy; for protective rea- sons, certain other imports are not being licensed. All imports from metropolitan Portugal, Rho- desia, Somalia,5 and South Africa are prohibited. With certain exceptions, imports from Tanzania and Uganda are unrestricted, but many goods imported from these countries require a specific license unless they are of Tanzanian or Ugandan origin. Specific import licenses are required for a number of goods from all other sources and for all goods of Japanese origin. Other goods may be imported without licenses. When the importer has obtained a license from the Director of Trade and Supplies, or if the trans- action is covered by an open general license, exchange is provided automatically by an author- ized bank upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are controlled. Author- ized banks are empowered to approve specified 4 Such securities must be payab le in East A f r i c an cur- rency and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years f rom the date of acquisition. "The p roh ib i t ion on imports f rom Somalia was l if ted in J a n u a ry 1968. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution categories of current paymen ts up to established limits; with the exception of transfers of savings from salaries by expatriate workers in Kenya, amounts above these limits as well as all other current payments are approved administratively, if the authorities are satisfied that such payments do not represent an illegal export of capital. The basic allowance for travel outside the Scheduled Terr i tor ies0 by adults is K Sh 5,000 a person (K Sh 2,500 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) a year, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes .7 Travelers to destinations outside Tan- zania and Uganda may take out up to K Sh 250 in domestic currency notes; travelers proceeding direct to Tanzania or Uganda may export any amount in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, or East A f r ican shilling notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 14,000 a person for a fu ll scholastic year and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon produc- tion of evidence of debt. A resident of Kenya may not send as a cash gift to a country other than Tanzania or Uganda more than K Sh 200 a year w i thout specific exchange control approval. Facilities exist whereby nationals of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda who come to work in Kenya for not more than four years may remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their monthly earnings, but not more than K Sh 3,000 a mon th, to cover fam i ly maintenance, savings, etc.; this amount is to cover all their commitments outside the Scheduled Territories. Nationals of Sterling Area countries other than Scheduled Territories who are employed and have been resident in Kenya for over four years may transfer uncom- mitted up to 20 per cent of their salaries, but not more than K Sh 1,200 a mon th; the total of their committed and uncommitted remittances must not exceed 50 per cent of their salary. Exports and Export Proceeds Export of certain foods tuffs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to 0 Kenya's exchange control regu la t ions de f ine the Scheduled Terr i tor ies as K eny a, Tanzan ia, and Ug and a. 7 Banks are not p e rm i t t e d, w i thout specific app rova l, to sell exchange for t ravel to Aden, B u r u n d i, Democ ra t ic R epub l ic of Congo, E th iop ia, M a l aw i, M o z am b i q u e, Rhod e s i a, Rw a n d a, Soma l ia, Sudan, and Z amb i a. KENYA restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Kenya. Exports of certain minerals, precious stones, and strategic materials are also subject to licensing. Export licenses for some commodities are required only for destina- tions other than Tanzania or Uganda. Other goods may be exported without licenses. All exports to metropolitan Portugal, Rhodesia, Somalia,8 and South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected within six months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Kenya for con- version into Kenya shillings. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 3) must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in freely foreign cur- rency notes; the import of Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda shilling notes must not exceed K Sh 250 in value for each traveler unless arriving direct from Tanzania or Uganda, in which case any amount may be brought in. The import of East A f r ican shilling notes f rom countries other than Tanzania or Uganda is prohibited. Capital Capital transfers to all countries other than Tan- zania and Uganda are restricted. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers to destinations other than Tanzania and Uganda require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Kenya perma- nently may transfer their assets up to the equiva- lent of K Sh 100,000 per fam i ly un it if they take up residence in a country outside the Sterling Area; if they re turn to their country of origin in the Sterling Area, they may additionally every 12 months thereafter apply for the release of K Sh 40,000 from their Blocked Accounts. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in approved Scheduled Territory securities, and redemption proceeds become transferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. 8 The p roh ib i t ion on expor ts to Somalia was l i f ted in J r n u a ry 1968. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA There is no restriction on the investment of for- eign funds in Kenya, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is necessary to obtain a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the investment. For- eign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval under the East A f r i- can Licensing Ordinance. Except in respect of Tanzania and Uganda, all imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income f rom such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to Blocked Accounts. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania and Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require exchange control approval. The import of the following from all sources other than Tanzania and Uganda, and from Tanzania and Uganda when originating from other countries, is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued free ly; those for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) and for gold coins are issued to goldsmiths only and are issued restrictively. Changes during 1967 January 9. A number of commodities were added to the list of those subject to individual licensing when originating from countries other than Tanzania and Uganda. Further commodities were added to the list on January 28, January 31, February 22, May 17, and July 28. June 6. Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda signed a treaty establishing an East A f r ican Community and Common Market (the Treaty for East A f r i- can Coopera t ion). 250 July 28. A number of commodities were added to the list of those subject to individual import licensing when imported from and originating in Tanzania and Uganda; they included unmanu fac- tured tobacco, copra, cottonseed oil, coconut oil, superphosphates, plywood, woven cotton fabrics, fishing nets and netting, radios, plastic containers, beans, peas, candy, soap, bicycle tires and tubes, cotton and other blankets, shirts, footwear, matches, and all nylon piece goods. September 14. All banknotes issued by the East African Currency Board ceased to be legal tender in Kenya; until fu r ther notice, they would continue to be exchanged at par by all banks. September 28. The sale to foreigners of land in Kenya was prohibited. December 1. Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda signed the declaration of inauguration of the East Afr ican Commun i ty, thus putting into effect the Treaty for East Afr ican Cooperation. The treaty provided that, with the exception of transfer taxes, there would be no internal tar iffs and no quantita- tive import restrictions other than those on a lim- ited special list of commodities. States which were in deficit in their total trade in specified manu- factured goods with the other two countries were entitled to impose transfer taxes upon such goods originating in the other two countries, but no transfer tax could be imposed for longer than eight years. The treaty also provided for the continua- tion of the common external customs ta r i f f. Subject to exchange control laws and regulations that must not be in conflict with the treaty, remit- tances among the three countries would take place at official par values and free of any exchange commission; bona fide current payments among the three countries were to remain unrestricted, but controls on capital payments could be applied under specified conditions. December 11. Forward exchange facilities were made available to importers and exporters. December 30. The import and export of East A f r ican currency notes, except from and to Tan- zania and Uganda, was prohibited. East Afr ican currency notes imported with specific exchange control approval would be redeemed at the rate of K Sh 17.1429 per EA Sh 20. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Exchange Rate System No par value for the Korean Won has been established with the Fund. Since March 22, 1965 there has been a fluctuating exchange rate deter- mined in an exchange certificate market, where the rate is not permitted to appreciate beyond W 255 per US$1. On December 31, 1967 the official buying and selling rates of the Bank of Korea for the U.S. dollar were W 274.50 and W 274.90, respectively. Exchange certificates valid for 45 days are issued by the Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea and other exchange banks against all foreign exchange earnings except those from sales of won to the UN forces stationed in Korea and to other nonresidents. Exchange certificates are required for all foreign exchange expenditures except for payments for imports under U.S. Public Law 480, payments by commercial banks in connection with their banking transactions, and other payments of less than the equivalent of US$50; the certifi- cates required for the Government's exchange pay- ments are issued against won by the Bank of Korea. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance is in charge of exchange control, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. It carries out policy with respect to pre- scription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for non- merchandise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Govern- ment's agent, executes the above functions in par t; it regulates operations in the certificate market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has also been delegated authority to control receipts and payments related to invisibles. The Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea,1 whose capital is wholly subscribed by the Bank of Korea, has taken over from the latter all its international banking and foreign exchange business. The Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea and the exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of foreign banks, are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. 1 On J a n u a ry 1, 1968, its name was changed to Korea Exchange B ank. Some imports and exports are subject to approval by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try or the ministries concerned. Imports of auto- matic approval items are licensed by the Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea and the authorized banks. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other coun- tries are made in convertible currencies. 'Korea has a bilateral payments agreement with Viet- Nam, but no clearing account has yet been estab- lished. An arrangement with Indonesia provides for certain settlements to be effected through escrow accounts, but the account has not been established and no transactions have taken place under this arrangement. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies (Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Swedish kronor, or U.S. dollars). The methods of payment on account of other settlements require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with the Bank of Korea and the authorized banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon departure from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is required for remittances from balances that have accrued from remunera- tion for services in Korea, air or ship passage fares, or insurance premiums received in Korea, or from exchange deposited in accordance with a decision of the Ministry of Finance (except exchange registered at the customs on entry or remitted from abroad). The deposits may be disposed of by sale to the Bank of Korea or an authorized bank at the prevailing exchange cer- tificate rate, and they may be debited for salary payments to foreign employees. Foreign residents and nonresidents are per- mitted to hold foreign currency time deposit accounts with the Bank of Korea. Certain resi- dents of Korean nationality, such as the airline 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA and some insurance companies, may maintain current deposit accounts in foreign currencies with the Bank of Korea and with authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses; for certain imports (see below) licenses are issued upon application. No licenses are issued for any goods originating from communist countries and for certain imports from all other countries. Imports are divided into two categories: those paid for with Korean for- eign exchange (so-called KFX imports) and those paid for with foreign aid funds. KFX imports are classified as automatic approval, restricted, or prohibited items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved) unless they are in a list of restricted or prohibited commodities. Automatic approval items (761 out of 1,312 basic items in the SITC classification) consist mainly of essential consumer goods not domestically pro- duced and certain raw materials and capital goods. Restricted items (443) in a negative list are subject to individual licenses for which applica- tions are screened on a case-by-case basis by the competent ministries. Prohibited items (108) are mainly luxury goods, items prohibited for reasons of public health or morals, and some domestically produced goods. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are approved automatically, irrespective of their classi- fication. Foreign aid imports are classified as either automatic approval items or restricted items. In principle, no commodities imported with for- eign aid funds are included among the KFX imports, but in exceptional cases payment for imports usually financed with aid funds may be made with KFX exchange. For purposes of licensing imports from specified countries, the position of Korea's balance of trade with the country concerned is taken into account. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders; to maintain the status of a registered trader, a m in imum value of US$100,000 of exports is required each year. Payments for most KFX imports must be made against a letter of credit. Payments for raw materials for export production may also be made against documents or within 90 days from the acceptance of documents. With special per- 252 mission from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, payments for imports other than raw materials for export production may be made against documents or within 90 days from the acceptance of documents. Any other method of settlement requires the approval of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Import payments are made by tendering exchange certificates to an authorized bank. In principle, exchange certifi- cates corresponding to the full import value must be surrendered at the time of opening the letter of credit. For imports to be used for the production of exports, however, importers are allowed under specified conditions to submit instead, until bills of lading are released, bank guarantees denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, import financing is available for such imports allowing payment in exchange certificates to be delayed until 135 days from the release of the bill of lading. When imports are to be used for the production of exports for which an export letter of credit has been obtained, a bank guarantee may be sub- mitted for the fu ll amount of the imports, and the exchange certificates may be surrendered when the bills of lading are released. When imports for exports are supported by a related export con- tract, importers are required to tender exchange certificates corresponding to at least 10 per cent of the value of imports when the letter of credit is opened ("margin system"), while the balance may be met with bank guarantees until the bills of lading are released. Traders are permitted to import raw materials for exports prior to the arrival of letters of credit or the conclusion of export contracts, and without making an advance deposit at the time of opening an import letter of credit; this exemption applies to imports cor- responding to up to 25 per cent of the value of raw materials they had used for exports in the preceding year. Imports for export production of raw materials in the prohibited category are sub- ject to exchange certificate requirements of 30 per cent of the value, to be fulfilled at the time of opening letters of credit; the deposit require- ments, however, for 4 prohibited items, includ- ing cotton fabrics and silk fabrics, are subject to the standard rules listed above. When import pay- ments are made against documents, exchange certificates must be surrendered when the bill of lading is released. Payments against accept- ance of documents are made by tendering ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange certificates within 180 days from the delivery of bills of lading for raw material imports for exports, and within 90 days from the delivery of bills of lading for other KFX imports. Imports of equipment needed to manufac ture certain export items, such as raw silk, veneer sheets, plywood, and sweaters, are allowed in limited amounts under special payment procedures. The amount of foreign exchange certificates to be surrendered at the time of the opening of the letter of credit is 10 per cent of the amount of the letter of credit (30 per cent for imports from those countries where the standard transit time to Korea does not exceed 10 day s ). Exchange certificates corresponding to another 10 per cent of the letter of credit amount (40 per c6nt for imports from those countries where the standard transit time to Korea does not exceed 10 days) must be surrendered at the time of release of the bill of lading, and the remainder is paid in accord- ance with special credit terms. The payments procedures for imports financed by foreign aid d iffer substantially from those financed by KFX; they also vary in accordance with the source of aid. Advance deposits in won are required for some of these imports, and advance deposits in exchange certificates for others. Imports of the Government and of government- operated enterprises are not subject to advance deposit requirements. Also exempt from these requirements are private sector imports of speci- fied commodities from countries remote from Korea. Letters of credit for such imports are opened by the exchange banks against promissory notes denominated in foreign exchange; payments are made when the bill of lading is released, in exchange certificates issued by the foreign exchange banks against won. The Ministry of Finance has authority to apply to any import commodity that it deems nonessen- tial a special customs ta r i f f, which provides for an additional tax of 70 per cent or 90 per cent of the estimated wholesale value of the com- modity. The authority has been invoked in respect of a number of commodities. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require ind iv idual licenses. Payments for invisibles connected with KOREA foreign trade transactions and for certain other items, such as banking charges, insurance pre- miums, communication fees, and periodicals, are licensed automatically. There are certain standard allocations for business travel. Moreover, export- ers whose foreign exchange earnings exceed the equivalent of US$100,000 a year may use part of such earnings for business travel or other trade promotion purposes, such as maintaining over- seas branches. In addition, exporters are author- ized to use exchange earnings up to an amount of US$5,000 a month for the expenses of their overseas branches. All residents departing for travel abroad may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$900 a month; they may purchase an additional US$200 for each trip for extra expenses. Students studying abroad may receive a monthly living allowance of up to US$300. Foreign and Korean currency notes may not be exported without special permission. Nonresident foreigners need not register the for- eign exchange they bring into Korea and, when departing, they may reconvert unused won notes into U.S. dollars up to US$100. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to communist countries, and exports of certain goods (such as raw cotton, silver and platinum ores, wood charcoal, pulp, and waste pape r) to all other countries, are prohibited. Certain exports require individual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an auto- matic approval procedure. The export proceeds in foreign exchange must either be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea or other exchange banks at the market rate or be exchanged into equivalent for- eign exchange certificates. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds derived from invisibles must either be sold to the Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea or other exchange banks or be exchanged for equivalent exchange certificates. The import of Korean currency notes requires special authoriza- tion. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange, which need not be declared upon entry if only specified currencies are carried, or if the amount of foreign exchange in other than 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA the prescribed currencies does not exceed the equivalent of US$50. Capital All capital remittances require approval. For- eign capital investment, loans from abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guarantee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Capital Inducement Law. No limits are placed on conversion and remittance of legitimate profits and dividends, and up to 20 per cent of the original capital invested plus any reinvestment may be repatriated each year, two years from the commencement of operations in Korea. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold coins and gold leaf in Korea for numismatic and investment purposes. With these exceptions, resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in Korea or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial users. Changes during 1967 January 16. The validity period of exchange certificates was extended from 15 to 30 days. The spread between the Bank of Korea's buying and selling rates was widened from 0.6 per cent to 1.8 percen t. January 30. The Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea started its operations. It took over from the Bank of Korea the responsibility for all trans- actions in foreign exchange. February 28. Nonresidents bringing in less than the equivalent of US$1,000 in prescribed cur- rencies or less than the equivalent of US$50 in other foreign currencies no longer were required to register such currency upon entry into Korea. March 29. The number of automatic approval items in the import program was raised from 3,194 to 3,549, and that of semirestricted items 254 from 87 to 92. The number of prohibited items was decreased from 250 to 249. April 14. Korea became a full contracting party to the GATT. May 30. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry announced the trade program for the second half of 1967. The number of automatic approval items in the import program was increased from 3,549 to 3,761. The number of semirestricted items was reduced from 92 to 91, and that of prohibited items from 249 to 244. June 15. The validity period of exchange certificates was extended from 30 to 45 days. July 18. The Government allowed foreign exchange banks to operate in the certificate mar- ket as dealers. July 18. The Swedish krona was added to the list of prescribed currencies. July 18. Restrictions on invisibles were relaxed. The limit for transfers in respect of monthly expenses for maintenance of overseas branches of domestic exporters was raised to US$5,000, and that for monthly living allowances for students was raised from US$150 to US$300. July 18. Subject to certain conditions, over- seas branches of Korean trading firms were allowed to maintain accounts in foreign exchange. July 18. Nonresidents no longer were required to register their holdings of prescribed currencies, regardless of amount. July 21. Notice No. 4374 waived the advance deposit requirements for certain imports from countries remote from Korea. July 25. Import control was shifted from a positive list system to a negative list system. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry announced a new classification of import commodities. These were listed as automatic approval, restricted, and prohibited items. All commodities not included either in the restricted list or in the prohibited list were under automatic approval. The cate- gories of semirestricted and unspecified items were abolished, and the existing import program was terminated. July 25. New procedures were announced for imports of machinery from countries with which ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Korea had a notably unfavorable balance of trade. These were defined as countries from which annual imports were at least twice the amount of Korean exports, provided that the latter exceeded the equivalent of US$25 million. August 8. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry announced the import procedures for some 5,000 restricted items. October 18. Korea invoked Article XXXV of the GATT in respect of Poland. November 21. A new tariff law was passed by the National Assembly, to enter into force on January 1, 1968. It authorized the Government to alter administratively import duty rates by up to 50 per cent. November 25. The Bank of Korea ceased setting and posting daily exchange rates for direct sales and purchases of foreign exchange with the nonbank public. All exchange transactions of exchange banks were now effected at market rates announced daily by the banks themselves. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Kuwaiti Dinar or KD 1 = US$2.80. The com- mercial banks' rates for telegraphic transfers on London are KD 0.8550 buying, and KD 0.8593 selling, per <£ stg. 1. Rates for other currencies in the official market are based on London market rates. There is a free market in which exchange other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian pounds, or South African rand may be dealt in without restrictions as to its origin or use, and in which rates, in practice, differ from official market rates by less than 1 per cent. On Decem- ber 31, 1967, the average selling rate for the U.S. dollar in the official market was KD 0.363 per US$1, and in the free market it was within a range of KD 0.359 to KD 0.360 per US$1. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation in Kuwait. Control is exercised only over the pro- vision of exchange in the official market for pay- ments to territories outside the Sterling Area and over the manner of payment to other Sterling Area territories. It is administered by the Kuwait Cur- rency Board. Authority to provide exchange for imports and related payments and, within limits, for travel is delegated to the banks operating in Kuwait. Individual Letters of Recommendation, required for other payments through the official market in currencies other than those of the Ster- ling Area, are issued by the Currency Board. General and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The limited control over exports is administered by the Customs and Ports Administration of the Ministry of Finance and Oil. Prescription of Currency Kuwait is a member of the Sterling Area, and the banks operating in Kuwait observe prescription of currency requirements broadly similar to those of other parts of the Sterling Area. Payments to other countries in the Sterling Area except South 256 Africa may be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Payments through the official market to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in a non-sterling currency appropriate to the area to which the payment is made. Payments from other countries in the Sterling Area may be received in any Sterling Area currency. Apart f rom payments to the Government, payments from countries out- side the Sterling Area are not, in practice, received through the official market. All settlements with Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all private imports other than foods tuffs; licenses are issued freely, except for wheat, flour, and asbestos pipe. Registered importers handling a variety of com- modities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which are also valid for one year. All imports from Israel, including imports of Israeli manufac ture and those that con- tain Israeli materials or are manufac tured by com- panies financed by Israeli capital, and all imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of alcoholic beverages are pro- hibited from all sources. The importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwa i t is or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaitis own all stock. Sterling Area currencies other than South African rand are provided freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area for imports or for other purposes. Imports from any permitted source may be paid for with exchange acquired in the free market. The banks operating in Kuwait are authorized to provide External Account sterling or a non- sterling currency other than Israel pounds, Por- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tuguese escudos, or Rhodesian pounds for pay- ments for imports from outside the Sterling Area, provided that they receive a fu ll set of documents covering the import and, when payment is to be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account, that they provide confirmation they are satisfied that the goods will be landed in Kuwa i t. When payment is made in a non-sterling currency, the banks operate on the basis of blanket or non- specific Letters of Recommendation which author- ize them to obtain non-sterling currencies other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, or Rho- desian pounds in London up to certain limits and to transfer them to accounts in the country of the currency involved. When the limits are reached, the banks obtain fu r ther authorizations under new Letters of Recommendation on accounting for the use of the previous allocations. For payments for goods purchased in countries outside the Sterling Area for resale without ship- ment to Kuwait, exchange is provided through the official market only if a bank guarantees that the proceeds of the resale will be returned to Kuwait; however, the proceeds of re-exportation of imports financed through the official market need not be surrendered. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of other Sterling Area countries except South Afr ica, or to residents of any country other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia in exchange acquired in the free market. Payments through the official market to resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in a non-sterling currency other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, or Rhodesian pounds for expenses related to imports (such as freight and insurance), as part of the arrangements on pay- ments for imports and thus subject to the same conditions (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). The banks operating in Kuwait have been granted general authority to sell to Kuwa i ti nationals non-sterling currencies other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, or Rho- desian pounds up to the equivalent of KD 500 a person for each tr ip for travel and other sundry expenses outside the Sterling Area, without specific KUWAIT reference to the Currency Board. For business travel, the amount may be increased up to KD 20 a day for a max imum period of three months; this allowance is applicable to all members of the fam i ly who accompany a business traveler. Trav- elers may take with them any amount in Kuwaiti or other banknotes except Israel, Portuguese, Rhodesian, or South African currency. For all other payments for invisibles to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia which are made through the official market, a separate Letter of Recom- mendation must be obtained from the Currency Board for each payment. Such authorization will be granted to provide exchange for medical or educational expenses abroad, if approval is obtained from the competent ministry. Foreign nationals working in Kuwait may remit abroad up to 75 per cent of their basic wages or salaries and, on departure, may transfer their savings. The transfer of income on foreign capital invested in Kuwait will be authorized up to the amount of net profits, including past earnings, on pre- sentation of an audited statement. Similarly, a Letter of Recommendation will be issued to cover payments for business services, if the application is accompanied by an audited certificate. The Currency Board will also issue to Kuwaiti nationals Letters of Recommendation providing an annual allowance in any currency except Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian pounds, or South African rand of the equivalent of up to KD 3,000 for each fam i ly. This may be used for additional travel fund s, for personal remittances, or for any other purpose, including the transfer of capital. This exchange is automatically availa- ble; larger amounts require special authorization by the Currency Board. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry are pro- hibited, and those of certain other items, such as sugar and fats, may be either licensed or pro- hibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. Exports of arms, ammunition, and scrap metal require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are pro- hibited. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports, except that these must not accrue in Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian pounds, or South African rand; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are attached to the use or dis- posal of receipts in any currency other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian pounds, or South African rand. Travelers entering Kuwait may bring with them any amount in Kuwaiti or other banknotes except Israel, Portuguese, Rho- desian, or South African currency. Capital There are no exchange control obligations on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in corporations in Kuwait, and a license is required for the establishment and operation of industries in Kuwait; except for petroleum com- panies, 51 per cent of ownership of new Kuwaiti companies must be held by Kuwaiti nationals. Although the Currency Board supervises out- ward capital movements to all destinations, no restrictions are imposed on outward capital pay- ments by residents or nonresidents to other coun- tries in the Sterling Area except South Africa, or to any country other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia if the payment is made through the free market. A Letter of Recommendation from the Currency Board is required if a currency other than a Sterling Area currency is to be transferred through the official market. When a firm in which nonresident capital is involved is liquidated, per- mission is given automatically for the repatriation through the official market of the nonresident capital involved, in a currency appropriate to the residence of the investor. Under a resolution of September 1963 of the Ministry of Finance and Oil, Kuwaiti nationals may be granted permission to transfer capital, within limits approved by the Exchange Control, to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia for investment pur- 258 poses, provided that the application is supported by sufficient information regarding the purpose of the investment and the country to which the remittance is made. Local banks are granted permission without restriction to invest their deposits outside the Sterling Area except in Israel, Portugal, and Rhodesia. Transfers of capital for other purposes by resi- dents through the official market to countries out- side the Sterling Area are generally not permitted beyond an amount equivalent to KD 3,000 a family per annum (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Additional amounts are sub- ject to the approval of the Currency Board, which is granted only in exceptional cases. Gold The monetary authorities and merchants regis- tered with the Ministry of Trade and Industry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18 carat fine. Kuwaiti nationals may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, bring in and take out their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Imports of gold in any form are exempt from all customs duties and taxes. Changes during 1967 March 1. The amount up to which the com- mercial banks could, without reference to the Currency Board, sell non-sterling currencies to Kuwaiti nationals for travel and sundry expenses was increased from KD 250 to KD 500 a person a trip. June 8. Following the imposition of martial law, the Chairman of the Currency Board was authorized to regulate, irrespective of the monetary area concerned, payments for imports and pay- ments relating to family obligations and travel. No other type of foreign payment or transfer was permitted without an order from the Military Governor-General. June 10. The amount up to which capital transfers to countries outside the Sterling Area were normally permitted to be made through the official market was reduced from KD 3,000 to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution F J, KD 1,000 a family per annum. The delegated authority of the authorized banks to approve payments abroad and to sell the corresponding . , » exchange was restricted to payments in respect of °... . . r / u u i* * commodity imports, payments on behalf of gov- ernment agencies, family remittances by nonna- tionals holding licenses previously issued by the Currency Board, and travel expenses of Kuwaiti nationals; all other payments to all countries required prior approval by the Currency Board. 1r, ~, .A .. T.. , June 10> Oil exports to the United Kingdom , ^u TT .. , c^ .... , A, to an(J ^e United States were prohibited; the pro- , . ,. . ,.. , A ^ TT A« hlbltlon was llfted on Au8ust 29' T A A December 16. The exchange control measures of June 8 and 10, 1967 were rescinded. KUWAIT 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS Exchange Rate System No par value for the Laotian Kip has been established with the Fund. The official rate is K 240 = US$1. This rate applies to imports of aid goods; government requirements; 20 per cent, 40 per cent, or 60 per cent of the proceeds from exports of tin ore and concentrates (depending on grade and o r i g i n ) ;l 20 per cent of the proceeds f rom exports of lumber; 10 per cent of other export proceeds; and specified invisibles. All other transactions take place in an official free market.2 The National Bank of Laos conducts exchange transactions with authorized banks only in U.S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling, at rates equivalent to K 240.00 buying, and K 242.40 selling, per US$1. Banks are authorized to charge commissions not exceeding 1 per cent on pur- chases and sales of these currencies. A Foreign Exchange Operations Fund (FEOF) intervenes in the official free market to create orderly condi- tions and to counteract the expansionary effect of the budget deficit. Residents and nonresidents are permitted to maintain accounts in foreign currencies with authorized banks. These accounts may be credited with unlimited amounts in foreign exchange and may be debited for any payments by the account holder. Transfers between these accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be sold against kips either at the free market rate or, for specified purposes, at the official rate. Administration of Control The National Exchange Office of the Ministry of Finance authorizes imports under the foreign assistance import programs, authorizes payments for invisibles, and records exports. The Foreign Trade Department of the Ministry of National Economy issues export licenses. The four com- mercial banks are authorized to deal, on account of customers only, in foreign exchange at the official and free market rates. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments, but the National Bank provides exchange for authorized payments and accepts export proceeds only in U.S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling. There is a bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. providing for payments to be made through a clearing account maintained in French francs as the unit of account. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain accounts in foreign currencies with authorized banks (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). Imports and Import Payments All importers must pay an annual registration fee to the Government. Imports of charcoal, bricks, roof tiles, matches, rubber sandals, coffee, ice cream, and soft drinks are prohibited, although import licenses are granted when shortages arise. Imports are divided into two categories: (1) those made in accordance with the import pro- grams financed by assistance from Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States; (2) all other imports, for which the importer has to supply his own foreign exchange and which are not subject to licensing. There is a list of commodities which may be imported under the import program financed by the United States; certain of these commodities may not be imported from specified countries.3 However, petroleum products, for which specific U.S. aid is made available, may be imported from some of the countries on the list of excluded countries. Under the various import programs financed with foreign aid, importers apply to the Exchange Office for licenses. After clearance in respect of valuation, the exchange licenses auto- matically become import licenses; for imports under the U.S. import program, the valuation is 1 On F eb ru a ry 20, 1968, the surrender requ i rement for proceeds f rom exports of low-grade tin concentrates was reduced f rom 40 per cent to 20 per cent, and that for h igher-grade concentrates was reduced f rom 60 per cent to 40 per cent. 2 The off ic ial free ma rket ra te has tended to settle a round K 505 per US$1. 3 The coun tr ies from wh ich goods may not be imported under the U.S. import program are Aus tra l ia, Aus t r ia, Be lg ium, Canada, Cuba, Denma rk, France, Federal Republic of Ge rmany, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Monaco, Ne the r lands, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and commun ist coun tr ies (de f ined as not inc lud ing Yugos lav ia). 260 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution checked by the U.S. AID. Under the U.S. import program, suppliers are paid direct from the Spe- cial Letter of Credit opened by the U.S. Govern- ment at the Chase Manhattan Bank of New York in favor of the Royal Lao Government, af ter the goods involved have been certified as con- forming to the list of commodities qualified for foreign financing. Under the U.K. import pro- gram, foreign exchange is made available by the United Kingdom direct to the commercial banks upon the opening of letters of credit. Under the Australian import program, the Laotian Govern- ment requests the Australian Government to pur- chase and deliver to Laos specified goods. The Aus tra l ian Government makes payment to the suppliers and covers all costs up to the Laotian port of entry, when the goods become the property of the Laotian Government. The National Bank does not make foreign exchange available to pay for imports outside the import programs, w i th the exception of imports to meet government requirements. However, import- ers are free to obtain exchange through the official free market for any amount of imports; imports financed in this manner may be obtained from any noncommunist country (see footnote 3 ). Under the import programs financed with for- eign aid, all importers are required to make a covering payment of 100 per cent for letters of credit opened, except for tractors imported under the U.S. program, for which the covering payment is 50 per cent with the balance to be paid within three years a f ter the sale. For customs valuation purposes, the exchange rate for most imports not financed with foreign aid is K 500 per US$1; for all other goods it is K 240 per US$1. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain specified invisibles that are granted foreign exchange at the official rate of K 240 per US$1 require licenses, which are issued by the Exchange Office. Freight and insurance in connection with imports under the foreign aid import programs are regarded as a part of the import paymen t. There is a special foreign exchange budget for payments for invisibles at the official rate. The categories of payments for invisibles for which the National Bank sells for- LAOS eign exchange are as follows: official transfers, covering official expenditures by the Govern- ment; private transfers, covering installation allowances of civil servants abroad, study abroad (initial installation, monthly allowances up to specified limits, transport, and other miscellaneous expenses), and family maintenance; and other transfers, covering mostly unforeseen expenses. All other payments for invisibles are unrestricted, but must be conducted through the official free market. Travelers may take out any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must pay an annual registration fee to the Government. Exports of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. All other exports are subject to authorization, but licenses are auto- matically issued. Twenty, 40, or 60 per cent of proceeds from exports of tin ore and concentrates, depending on grade and source,4 20 per cent of the proceeds from exports of lumber, and 10 per cent of all other export proceeds must be surren- dered in U.S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling at the official rate to the National Bank; the remainder may be kept abroad or with domestic banks or sold in the free market. Should an exporter be paid in a currency other than U.S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling, he must exchange the part that is subject to surrender into one of the acceptable currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requirements are applied to the following invisibles: official expenses (other than salaries of foreign employees) by embassies, missions, representatives, and various foreign institutions; settlements from insurance compa- nies; and receipts of public service companies. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Incoming capital and outgoing capital are not subject to any exchange control requirements. 4 See foo tno te 1. 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS Transactions are conducted through the official free market. April 6. The import duty on gold was raised to 8.5 pe rcen t. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form within the country. Banks and residents who are recognized as industrial users or as importers of gold also may freely import gold in any form, subject to payment of an 8.5 per cent customs duty. Exports of gold by or on behalf of physical or juridical persons other than the monetary authorities are prohibited. Commercial imports and exports of articles con- ta in ing a minor quan t i ty of gold are freely permitted. Changes during 1967 February 9. The import duty on gold was raised from 7.5 per cent to 8 per cent. April 13. The surrender requirement for pro- ceeds from exports of lumber was increased from 10 to 20 per cent. December 6. Exporters were required to deposit with the National Bank, prior to domi- ciling the export license with that Bank, the por- tion of their anticipated export proceeds that was subject to surrender. The Exchange Office would only give its visa on export licenses that were marked by the National Bank to show that this requirement had been met. Previously, exporters had to provide a bank guarantee in respect of pro- ceeds subject to surrender, and export licenses were domiciled with the commercial banks. 262 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Exchange Rate System On July 29, 1947 a par value for the Lebanese Pound was established by Lebanon with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All trans- actions take place at free market rates, which for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1967 were LL 3.11 buying, and LL 3.12 selling, per US$1. Pending the establishment of a new par value with the Fund, a "provisional legal parity" of LL 3.08 = US$1 is applied for the valuation of official assets and government transactions in for- eign exchange and for customs valuation purposes. There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Prescription of Currency In general, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. In some cases, transactions with certain countries with which Lebanon has payments agreements specifying the method or channel of payment may be made through specific accounts.1 Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods from any source and all imports from Israel and Rhodesia are pro- hibited. All imports of arms and imports valued at over LL 500 of certain other commodities (in- cluding wheat, barley, beet and cane sugar, men- thol, leather bags, ladies' dresses, industrial machinery, olive oil, molasses, brushes, poultry, gasoline, kerosene, and liquid gas) that are for the most part produced locally are subject to prior licensing. Import licenses are also required for all machinery for the installation or expansion of manufacturing plants. Licenses are granted for six months and may be renewed for an additional six months (or longer, for imports of industrial mach inery). All other commodities may be imported freely without license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely through the free market. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent is levied on the value of all goods imported by sea or air. A surcharge of 10 per cent of the 1 These countries are Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- m any, Poland, Rum an i a, U.S.S.R., and Un i ted A rab Republic. There is also an inopera t ive paymen ts agree- ment with Gu inea. applicable import duty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Payments for Invisibles No restrictions are placed on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained freely through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a few goods (scraps of iron, cast iron, lead, and t in) to any country, re-exports of certain goods to any destination, and all exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports valued at over LL 200 of a few items—such as livestock, wheat and wheat products, barley, Egyptian cotton, newsprint, petroleum, petroleum products, industrial and agricultural machines and equipment, and certain metals —to any country and all products intended for export to North Korea require export licenses. Re-exports to North Korea are subject to prior clearance by the Ministry of National Economy. Exchange receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold freely through the free market. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license. However, the import, export, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins that no longer are legal tender must be covered by a certificate indicating the gold content and weight and issued by the Service for the Protection of the Consumer. 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Changes during 1967 May. Exports of copper and copper scrap were freed from licensing. June 15. The inoperative payments agreement with Iraq was formally terminated. June 18. Decree 7589 made imports of raw and refined sugar subject to individual import license. June 26. Cash withdrawals from bank accounts in Lebanon by residents or nonresidents, which had been restricted early in June, were freed. July 19. Imports, exports, and domestic sales of foreign gold coins that are no longer legal tender became subject to supervision with respect to gold content and weight. August 5. Legislative Decree No. 63 intro- duced, with effect from August 14, a surcharge equivalent to 10 per cent of the applicable customs duty on specified garments and textiles. The revenue from the surcharge would be applied to subsidize, for one year only, exports of specified textiles, yarns, and garments; the surcharge would be discontinued when the amount required for the subsidies had been collected. September 4. The prohibition on oil exports that had been introduced in June was lifted. 264 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Liberian Dollar or $1 = US$1. U.S. currency is in circulation along with Liberian coinage. Official accounts are kept in dollars and cents. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control. A few items (e.g., arms and ammunition, explo- sives, used clothing, and pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses. Also, imports of certain goods (e.g., obscene literature and narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are pro- hibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Export licenses are required for precious metals, precious stones, ivory, agri- cultural products other than rubber, and certain other items, such as arms, ammunition, and explo- sives. Licenses are issued freely; they serve mainly to enforce taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certification of quality and origin and to safeguard the monopoly of the Liberian Pro- duce Marketing Corporation. The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts f rom invisibles. There are, however, restrictions on the circulation of U.S. banknotes in denominations over $20. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Under an Investment Incentive Code, enterprises undertaking new investment projects may be granted five-year to ten-year tax exemptions and tar iff exemptions on construction materials, raw materials, and capital goods to be used in manu fac tu r ing operations. Other possible benefits include tar iff protection, subject to approval of the legislature. Gold Residents may freely and without license pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. The import and export of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Secre- tary of the Treasury; import licenses are issued free ly but export licenses are granted restrictively. Changes during 1967 May 4. Liberia signed the Protocol of Associa- tion of the West African Economic Community. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Libyan Pound or £L 1 = US$2.80. The Bank of Libya deals with commercial banks in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars only, at rates fixed daily. The rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1967 were US$2.818 buying, and US$2.814 sell- ing, per £L 1; for the pound sterling the buy- ing and selling rates were £L 0.85138 and £L 0.85838, respectively, per £ stg. 1. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through their foreign correspondents or branches; the banks' rates are based on quotations in London, New York, and other centers abroad. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Libya, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to import and export licensing is determined by a consulta- tive Import and Export Council, under the chair- mansh ip of the Minister of National Economy and Trade. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Trade or its dele- gated offices; imports of sugar, salt tobacco, cigarettes, cigarette paper, and unprocessed gold are a government monopoly. Prescription of Currency The Kingdom of Libya is a member of the Ster- ling Area. Settlements with other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency or by crediting Libyan pounds or sterling to a Scheduled Territories Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). Settlements with countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in Libyan pounds or ster- ling through an External Account or in any con- vertible foreign currency. All settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Libya has a trade and paymen ts agreement with the United Arab Republic, under which settle- ments are made through a centralized bilateral clearing account ma in ta ined in sterling. 266 Nonresident Accounts The accounts in Libyan pounds of residents of the Sterling Area are designated Scheduled Terri- tories Accounts, and those of residents of other countries, External Accounts ( the only exceptions being blocked accounts or accounts to which special procedures app ly ). Transfers may be made freely between Scheduled Territories Accounts, between External Accounts, and from External Accounts to Scheduled Territories Accounts. Funds held on Scheduled Territories Accounts may be converted into sterling or any other Ster- ling Area currency. Funds held on External Accounts may be converted into any foreign cur- rency, including sterling. Funds brought into Libya by nonresident con- tractors unde r tak ing contracts in their own names are required to be kept in "special resident accounts" with a bank in Libya. Payments received in Libya by such contractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from Libya to the debit of these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Libya. Nonresidents who are gainfully employed in Libya and have been staying in the country for less than six years may maintain nonresident accounts in Libyan pounds with any authorized bank in Libya. These accounts may be credited with funds originating from salaries, etc., subject to instructions issued by the Bank of Libya. With the approval of the exchange control authority, funds on blocked accounts may be used for expenditures in Libya up to £L 500 a year to cover the cost of current visits to Libya by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for paymen ts in Libya of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent residence, up to £L 1,000 in a calendar year; and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been on a blocked Libyan pound account for five years, they qua l ify for remittance in fu ll to the owner in his coun try of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons who have le ft Libya permanently are being released in installments; balances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have already been released. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Most imports are under open general license and do not require an individual import license. There are two lists of imports subject to individual licens- ing. One list comprises some 26 items or groups of items which require no authorization other than an import license; these goods include various foods tuffs, certain local manufactures, and several revenue-producing commodities. Goods on the other list, which contains 6 groups of items, require the approval of the competent ministry prior to the granting of an import license; the goods include drugs and medicines, live animals, and edible vegetable oils. Imports of sugar, salt, tobacco, cigarettes, and cigarette paper are sub- ject to government monopoly. The Bank of Libya has a monopoly over the import of fine gold. Imports of a few goods from all countries and all imports from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exchange permits required for authorized imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and any necessary import license has been obtained. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require licenses f rom the Bank of Libya.1 These are granted freely for expenses incidental to trade transactions. Appli- cations for remittances in respect of other invisibles are considered on their merits and are granted liberally. Persons leaving the country may take with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of £L 20; residents leaving for personal travel abroad, including tourist travel, may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the fo rm of foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of £L 300 in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in Libya. Children under 12 years of age are allowed one half of this amount. Amounts in excess of the above may be granted in special circumstances. Pilgrims are entitled to a special quota of £L 300 in addition to the basic travel 'W i th e f fect f r om J a n u a ry 6, 1968, the au tho r ized b anks were empowered to approve app l ica t ions by resi- den ts to rem it fo re ign exchange up to <£L 100 in a ca lendar year for the mee t ing of genu ine personal com- m i tm e n ts abroad of a noncomme rc ial n a tu r e. LIBYA allowance. For business travel, residents may take out the equivalent of <£L 250 a trip or, sub- ject to a max imum of £L 2,500 in any period of six months, the equivalent of £L 20 a day. Temporary visitors may take out any travelers checks, letters of credit, or foreign currency notes which they declared on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for all commodities. Export proceeds must be surrendered. Exports of nonmonetary gold (other than for processing abroad), vegetable oils, and mares are prohibited. All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers checks or foreign cur- rency notes may be cashed only at an authorized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Bank of Libya. Travelers entering Libya may bring with them Libyan currency notes, not exceeding a total of £L 20, and other currency notes, travelers checks, letters of credit, bonds, coupons, securities, and other negotiable instruments in unlimited amounts. Libyan currency notes may be repatriated through banking channels, provided that details are given to establish that the notes within the authorized amount were obtained from bona fide travelers from Libya. Capital Many aspects of the activities of oil companies operating in Libya are governed by Petroleum Law No. 25 of 1955, as amended. Under the pro- visions of the Foreign Capital Investment Law of January 30, 1958, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, as well as profits thereon, and salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be transferred freely to the country of origin. Real estate in Libya may be sold only to Libyans. The net sales proceeds af ter tax of real estate belonging to foreign nationals are freely transferable. Nonresident capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ). Residents require the prior 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA approval of the Bank of Libya to borrow funds abroad or to import on consignment or on deferred payment terms when payment is to be made more than 90 days af ter arrival of the goods. As a rule, residents require prior permission to purchase real estate situated outside Libya or invest abroad in securities. Residents of Libya taking up perma- nent residence abroad are permitted to transfer up to <£L 5,000 for a fam i ly; applications for the release of the balance of their assets over a number of years are approved liberally. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars in Libya. The Bank of Libya has a monopoly over the import of unworked gold and sells bars to domestic gold- smiths in limited quantities, to meet genuine com- mercial needs, at <£L 479 per kilogram, a price that has remained unchanged since February 1963; provided that they obtain a license from the Ministry of National Economy and Trade, gold- smiths may have such gold processed abroad, after which it must be reimported. Bars purchased f rom the Bank of Libya must be melted and processed before they can be sold to the public. Exports of gold not for processing are not permitted unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Unworked gold is subject to an import duty of 15 per cent and to a stamp duty. Changes during 1967 February 6. Imports of motor vehicles and of industrial and agricultural machinery required an individual license; licenses were not issued unless an import license for spare parts valued at 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods to be imported was applied for at the same time. March 31. Commercial banks were instructed to restrict the granting of credit to foreign nationals and nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled firms in Libya. May 24. The import of liquid fuels and lubri- cants was made subject to individual licensing. June 1. The cash margin requirements for bank letters of guarantee were simplified; commercial banks were required to obtain a cash margin of 15 per cent of the value of the guarantee from nonresident customers. June 6. Exports of oil to the Federal Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom, and the United States were suspended. The ban was lifted on September 4. June 6. The Bank of Libya suspended the sale of gold to domestic industrial users. It was resumed on August 1. June 6. The Bank of Libya advised the author- ized banks not to make any outward remittances or payments in excess of <£L 5,000, under the authorities delegated to them, without obtaining the prior permission of the Bank of Libya. June 13. All authorities delegated to the banks by Exchange Control Notice No. 13 of Septem- ber 29, 1960 were withdrawn, and all payments in foreign exchange required the prior approval of the Bank of Libya. The revoked authorities were restored to the banks on August 3. July 27. All commercial agencies in Libya were required to be 100 per cent owned by Libyan nationals. October 22. Additional instructions regarding imports on consignment and imports on a deferred payment basis were issued. The Bank of Libya reiterated its instruction to banks that they must insist on evidence of a firm contract between the importer in Libya and the exporter abroad before establishing any import letter of credit. The banks were also advised to satisfy themselves about the standing of the foreign supplier before establishing any letter of credit for imports into Libya; this advice aimed at avoiding payments against false shipping documents and payments for spurious goods. 268 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC 1 Exchange System No par value for the currency of the Malagasy Republic has been established with the Fund. The official un it of currency is the Malagasy Franc, which is equivalent to 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship FMG 246.853 = US$1. The Malagasy Institute of Issue stands ready, in trans- actions with commercial banks, to buy and sell Malagasy francs against French francs at the fixed rate of FMG 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris market rates for the other currency concerned, plus or m inus a commission. Forward exchange transactions, which are permitted in any currency and for any period, take place at freely negotiated rates. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings, whe ther spot or forward, by residents or nonresi- dents, whether banks or nonbanks. There are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements, although certain controls are applied to borrowing abroad, to issues and sales of foreign securities in the Malagasy Repub- lic, and to inward and outward direct investment (see section on Capital, be low ). In practice, set- tlements with countries outside the French Franc Area are usually made through correspondent banks in France, either in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French f rancs; settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are usually made in cur- rencies of that Area, in practice mainly in French francs. The following is applicable to payments and transactions between the Malagasy Republic and all foreign countries.2 Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, which may be held in the Malagasy Republic or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in Malagasy francs or in any foreign currency may be held in the Malagasy Republic by any nonresident. Balances on nonresident-held accounts may be transferred freely to any type of resident-held or nonresident- 1 Th is s u r v ey de sc r ibes the po s i t ion on J a n u a ry 17, 1968. " Fore ign c o u n t r i es a re d e f in ed as a ll c o u n t r i es o t h er t h an the Ma laga sy R epub l i c. held account and used for any payment in the Malagasy Republic or abroad, including the pur- chase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment, including any amount of interest. There are no restrictions on physical imports or exports of foreign or domestic securities. Imports and exports of gold are free and only require a customs declaration. The Malagasy Republic's control measures affecting inward and outward direct investment and borrowing abroad do not apply to relations with ( 1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A f a rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and ( 2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Togo, Upper Volta, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzav i l le), Gabon, and Senegal). Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce supervises borrowing abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in the Malagasy Republic, and inward and outward direct investment. All pay- ments and receipts between the Malagasy Repub- lic and foreign countries are registered, for statis- tical purposes only, by the Malagasy Institute of Issue, through the intermediary of the institution executing the transfer. All registered banks in the Malagasy Republic are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Import licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Bureau of the Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Export authorizations are issued either by the Foreign Trade Bureau (and its provincial offices) or by other specified public agencies, ma in ly stabilization funds or ma rke t ing offices for agricultural products. Imports and Import Payments All impor ts from Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports f rom countries outside the French Franc Area other than liberalized commodities originat- ing in EEC countries are subject to import licens- 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC ing. For protective reasons, a few imports (edible oils, batteries, used ju te bags, used empty barrels, and secondhand clothing) are subject to licensing, irrespective of origin; the import of certain other items f rom all sources is prohibited (certain types of beer, new ju te bags, and new barrels) or sus- pended un t il fu r ther notice (certain types of pape r ). All other goods that both originate in and are shipped f rom the French Franc Area may be imported freely. Imports of certain wines and electric batteries are conditional on purchases of domestic wine and batteries. Imports of cement and household soap are conditional on purchases of Senegalese cement and household soap, respectively. For restricted imports from countries outside the French Franc Area an annual import program is established. This program is determined by a joint French-Malagasy Committee. The import program is based on the establishment of quotas that fix the limits up to which specified commodi- ties may be imported. The program contains global quotas applicable to all EEC countries other than France, and global quotas applicable to all countries outside the French Franc Area (including the EEC countries other than France). The quotas for EEC countries are for individual nonliberalized commodities, while those for all other countries are fixed for groups of commodi- ties as defined in the customs t a r i f f. Payments for permitted imports from all coun- tries may be made free ly, at any time, and w i thout any forma l i ty. Commodity fu tu res may be dealt in freely, in the Malagasy Republic or abroad. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made free ly w i thout individual license. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may take out any amount in domes- tic and foreign banknotes and coins ( inc lud ing gold coins). Certain insurance transactions —but not the related payments —between residents and non- residents are subject to restriction. 270 Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports to all destinations of products under quota and of so-called controlled products require an exit permit (autorisation de sortie); these products include coffee, vanilla, cloves, pepper, sugar, and rice. An exit permit is also required for all com- modities valued at more than FMG 250,000 and originally imported from a country outside the French Franc Area. Exports are free of exchange controls. The repatriation and surrender of export proceeds is not required. Exporters may grant credit for any period and are free to sell forward their anticipated export proceeds. Proceeds front Invisibles Services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to non- residents and the proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes and coins (including gold co ins). Capital Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license, through banks or any other channel. Foreign and domestic securities of all types may be imported or exported freely, whether through the intermediary of a bank or not, and transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic and foreign real estate (except when form ing part of a direct investment) are unrestricted. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation and (except when fo rm ing part of a direct invest- men t) may be freely disposed of. Certain controls are maintained over borrow- ing abroad, over inward and outward direct invest- ment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in the Malagasy Republic, but these controls relate to the trans- actions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or intro- duction of foreign securities in the Malagasy Republic, the control measures do not apply to relations w i th France and its Overseas Depart- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC following are, however, exempt f rom this author- ization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; ( 2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Mala- gasy Republic and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take par t; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed FMG 50 million for any one borrower. The amount of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization must be notified to the Minister of Finance when it is more than FMG 500,000 but less than FMG 50 million. Lending abroad is not subject to authorization or declaration. Banks in the Malagasy Republic may freely grant overdrafts on nonresident accounts for any period. In accordance with the Investment Code of September 1962, as amended by Law No. 65-022 of December 16, 1965, foreign or domestic enter- prises of special interest for the economy may be granted preferential treatment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agrement). Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, supplementary allocations above those allotted in the annual import program, the introduction of quotas for competing imports, etc. Exceptional treatment beyond the benefits provided for by the Investment Code and other existing legislation may be granted in a founding agreement (conven- tion ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in the Malagasy Republic,3 and Malagasy direct investments abroad,4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance (i.e., to the Directorate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce) when they are being made, unless they take the fo rm of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of undistributed profits. The Minister has a period of two months f rom receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The total or partial liquidation of such investments must also be declared. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in the Malagasy Republic, must be reported to the Minister of Finance w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company. The issue, sale, offer ing for sale, or introduc- tion of foreign securities in the Malagasy Repub- lic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Malagasy Gov- ernment, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in the Malagasy Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Malagasy Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Malagasy Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The 3 Inc lud ing those made by companies in the Ma lagasy Repub l ic that are d irec t ly or ind i rec t ly under fore ign con- trol and those made by b ranches or subs id iar ies in the Ma lagasy R epub l ic of foreign companies. 4 Inc lud ing those made th rough the in t e rm ed i a ry of foreign compan ies th at are d i rec t ly or ind i rec t ly con- tro l led by persons in the Ma lagasy R epub l ic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of compan ies in the Ma lagasy R epub l i c. MALAGASY REPUBLIC 1965, all commercial relations with Rhodesia were prohibited, including particularly the import from Rhodesia of the principal Rhodesian export commodities. July 1. The Exchange Office was abolished. July 1. Decree No. 67-268 of June 28, 1967 established the principle that financial relations with foreign countries were free. With minor exceptions, all existing legislation contrary to this principle was revoked. Previously, current and capital payments to all French Franc Area coun- tries already were unrestricted; they were also free of control, as were inward transfers originating in French Franc Area countries. The law also pro- vided for the statistical registration of all inward and outward payments. Normally, the repatria- tion and surrender of claims, earnings, and pro- ceeds accruing abroad would no longer be required. Import and export regulations were not affected, although certain exchange control for- malities connected with trade transactions were abolished. The decree defined the concept of "foreign countries" and indicated the types of capital transactions with foreign countries that would be subject either to declaration or prior approval. It also provided that the import and export of gold would be free, subject only to the submission of an import or export declaration to the customs. The existing limitations on the export of Malagasy and French banknotes were abolished. July 1. Arrete No. 2485few of July 1, 1967 established the principal rules for the application of Decree No. 67-268. It provided that the decla- rations, requests for authorization, and reports required for the implementation of the remaining capital controls had to be submitted to the Direc- torate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. For statistical purposes, all banks and financial institutions as well as the postal administration were required to no t ify the Mala- gasy Institute of Issue of all payments between the Malagasy Republic and foreign countries, all transactions in foreign currency, all transactions in Malagasy francs that affected financial relations with foreign countries, and all transactions in securities between residents and nonresidents. ties connected with trade transactions. These included the requirements that import licenses be domiciled with an authorized bank, and that exporters sign a foreign exchange commitment in respect of all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. With minor exceptions, import licenses remained necessary for all com- modities originating in countries outside the French Franc Area other than liberalized com- modities originating in and shipped from EEC countries. With the exception of those subject to special regulations, all commodities could be exported freely without a license. July 1. The fee was abolished that the Exchange Office charged on all transactions authorized in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area. It ranged from FMG 500 for transactions up to FMG 150,000 to FMG 3,500 for those exceeding FMG 1 million. July 1. The EFAC (Exportations-Frais Acces- soires) accounts were abolished, in which export- ers could retain a portion of their export proceeds received in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area. July 8. Notice No. 943 to importers and export- ers was published. No trade control formality of any kind was required for imports of ( 1) liberal- ized commodities (listed in the Annex to the Notice) originating in and shipped f rom EEC countries; and ( 2) liberalized commodities origi- nating in an EEC country but shipped from a country of the French Franc Area. All other imports originating outside the French Franc Area continued to require an import license issued w i th in the framework of the general import pro- gram. Applications for such licenses had to be submitted to the Foreign Trade Bureau or to the provincial Trade Bureaus. Exports to all countries were free, but those of specified commodities required an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) granted by specified official agencies; these included coffee, rice, tapioca, sugar, various spices, and all commodities valued at more than FMG 250,000 and originally imported from a country outside the French Franc Area. Exit per- mits for roasted coffee would only be issued for shipment to France. July L Arrete No. 2486&W of July 1, 1967 formally abolished the exchange control formali- July 15. Notice No. 944 was published, which revised the regulation making the authorization to 272 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution import certain wines conditional on purchases of domestic wines. November 21. By Decree No. 67-522, a sub- sidy was granted on exports of tapioca to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area. November 25. Notice No. 950 was published, by which the regulations were abolished that made imports of certain wines conditional on purchases of domestic wines. December 9. By Notice No. 951, to become effective on February 1, 1968, imports of cement were made conditional on the purchase of a cer- tain proportion in Senegal, and imports of house- hold soap were made conditional on the purchase MALAGASY REPUBLIC of a certain proportion in Senegal and Ivory Coast. December 18. Law No. 67-028 was promul- gated, to come into force on January 1, 1968; it abrogated Decree No. 67-268 and the regulations issued for its application. The new law maintained the principle of freedom of payments between the Malagasy Republic and foreign countries but stipulated certain exceptional measures that could be taken in defense of the national interest. Subse- quently, for the application of Law No. 67-028, Decree No. 68-002 of January 3, 1968 was issued, as well as a fu r ther Arrete No. 170 on J anu a ry 12, 1968, and Arrete No. 270 on Janu- ary 17, 1968. 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Ma lawi Pound or <£M 1 = US$2.40. The Malawi pound is at par with the pound sterling. The commercial banks base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. On December 29, 1967, the rate for the U.S. dollar was US$2.42 buying, and US$2.39375 selling, per <£M 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Malawi under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the au thor i ty for approving normal cu r rent paymen ts is in turn delegated to the commercial banks. Import policy is formu la ted by the Minister of Economic A f fa i rs, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. The Minister is also responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Malawi is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom.1 For pre- scription of currency purposes, a distinction is made between the rest of the Sterling Area ( the Nonresident Scheduled A rea) and all other coun- tries except Rhodesia ( the Ex ternal Account A r e a ). Settlements with residents of other coun- tries in the Sterling Area may be made in Malawi pounds through a Nonresident Scheduled Area Account, in sterling, or in any other Sterling Area currency. Payments to residents of countries out- side the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in Malawi pounds to the credit of an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Pay- ments f rom residents of countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Malawi pounds f rom an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency f ree ly exchangeable for sterling. Special regula- tions app ly to settlements w i th Rhodesia. 1 U n d er M a l aw i 's exchange con t rol r e g u l a t i o n s, a ll cu r r en c i es o t h er t h an t he M a l a wi p o u nd a re cons ide red fo r e ign c u r r e n c i e s. 274 Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi pounds held by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any Sterling Area currency, with author- ized paymen ts to Sterling Area countries by resi- dents, and w i th transfers from other Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts. Balances on these accounts may be converted freely into other Ster- ling Area currencies, may be used to make pay- ments to residents of Malawi for any purposes, and may be transferred freely to other Nonresi- dent Scheduled Area Accounts; these accounts may also be debited for paymen ts to the account holder while temporarily in Malawi. Transfers to External Accounts require specific approval. Accounts in Malawi pounds held with author- ized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are designated Ex ternal Accounts. These accounts may be cred- ited with authorized paymen ts by residents to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rho- desia, with transfers from other External Accounts held in Malawi or any other Sterling Area terri- tory, with individually approved transfers from Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds by nonresi- dents to authorized banks. They may be debited for paymen ts for any purpose to residents of Malawi and of any other country of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts held in Malawi or any other Sterling Area terri- tory, or to Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts in Malawi, and for purchases of any Sterling Area or non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhode- sian pounds from authorized banks; they may also be debited for withdrawals by the account holder while temporarily staying in Malawi. External Accounts —Rhodesia are accounts in Malawi pounds that are held by persons regarded as residents of Rhodesia. They may only be cred- ited w i th ( 1) the proceeds f rom the sale of Rho- desian currency to an authorized dealer in Malawi, and (2) t rans fe rs f rom another Rhode- sian Ex ternal Account. The accounts may be debited w i th ( 1) paymen ts to residents of Malawi ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for any purpose; (2) payments to the account holder while temporarily staying in Malawi; (3) transfer to another Rhodesian External Account; and (4) transfers to the account holders in Rhodesia. Blocked Accounts in Malawi pounds held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Malawi are credited with non transfer- able capital sums in Malawi currency which have accrued to nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances of Blocked Accounts in Malawi securities, provided that these are held in Malawi to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments The statutory basis of the principal import restrictions is the Control of Goods Ordinance, which authorizes the Minister of Economic A f fa i rs to regulate and control the distribution, disposal, purchase, sale, import, and export of any manu- factured or unmanufac tured commodity. For a number of items,2 import licenses are required regardless of the country of origin. All other goods may be imported free of license when originating in the Sterling Area or, if originating in certain other countries,3 may be imported under an open general license. With respect to other countries,4 an import license is required for all commodities except certain items, such as petro- 2 Certain ag r icu l tu ral and food produc ts, new (m i l i- tary typ e) and used clothing, gold, sugar, wheat flour, cement, flick knives, explosives, a rms and ammun i t ion, game traps, mist nets, w i ld an ima l s, live fish, and copy- r ight ar t ic les. Licenses are also required for ce r ta in commodities o r ig in a t ing in Rhodes ia. 3 Algeria, A rg en t in a, Au s t r ia, Be lg ium, B raz i l, Bu rm a, B u r u n d i, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Cen tral A f r i c an Repub l ic, Chad, Chile, Congo (B razzav i l le ), Democratic Repub l ic of Congo, Cuba, Dahomey, D enm a rk, Domini- can Repub l ic, F in land, France, Gabon, Federal Repub l ic of Ge rmany, Greece, Gu inea, Ha i t i, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Repub l ic of Korea, L iech tens te in, Luxembou rg, Ma lagasy Repub l ic, M a l i, M a u r i t a n i a, Monaco, Morocco, Ne the r lands, N ica ragua, N ige r, No r- way, Pe ru, Po r tug a l, Rw a n d a, San Ma r ino, Senegal, Somalia, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Sw i tze r land, Togo, Tun i- sia, Tu rk ey, Un i ted A r ab R epub l i c, Un i ted States, U p p er Vo l ta, U ruguay, Va t ican C i ty, and Yugos lav ia. 4 These other coun t r i es are Czechos lovak ia, J a p a n, Rhodesia, and a ll coun t r ies t h at a re not c o n t r a c t i ng pa r- t ies to the GATT. MALAWI leum products, exposed cinematographic films, bona fide unsolicited gifts not exceeding <£M 25 in value, samples, advertising materials, etc.; how- ever, licenses are required for only a small number of commodities originating in Czechoslovakia, Japan, or Rhodesia. Payments for imports f rom all countries must be .made within six months af ter the date of import. Foreign exchange for these paymen ts is automati- cally granted by the authorized dealers, subject only to the presentation of relevant documents and compliance with import licensing require- ments. Individual exchange control approval is required, however, for payments in respect of commodities originating in a Sterling Area country but shipped f rom a non-Sterling Area country. Any t rans fer of funds in anticipation of imports is prohibited, except with the permission of the exchange control authorities. Advance payments may, however, be made for imports valued at up to <£M 50 on production of an invoice or other evidence indicating that the seller requires pay- ment in advance. Imports from any Sterling Area country may be paid for in Malawi currency to a local Nonresident Scheduled Area Account, in sterling, or in any other Sterling Area currency. Imports from other areas may be paid for in Malawi currency to a local External Account, in sterling to an External Account held elsewhere in the Sterling Area, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the com- mercial banks w i thout prior reference to the exchange control. The basic exchange allowance for travel is <£M 10 a day for an adult, with a max imum of <£M 300 a calendar year, and £M 5 a day for each child under 18 years of age, with a max imum of <£M 150 a calendar year for chil- dren between 10 and 18, and of <£M 100 a year for children under 10; these allocations are subject to a combined max imum of <£M 1,000 a year for a fam i ly traveling together. The allowance is not cumu la t ive but may be increased by up to 50 per cent if the traveler has not applied for a travel allowance during the preceding three years. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI other purposes, such as education, medical treat- ment, family remittances, and business travel. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange con- trol authorities. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts or holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to <£M 20 in Malawi currency and the equivalent of <£M 10 in foreign currency in addition to their basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed <£M 50 in value are prohibited, unless the Con- troller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that pay- ment has been made or will be made in an appro- priate manner to a resident of Malawi not later than six months af ter the date of exportation. Cer- tain commodities 5 are subject to export licensing, mainly to insure the adequacy of their domestic supplies. Export proceeds in non-Sterling Area currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported by travelers, but not more than <£M 20 in Malawi currency notes and coins may be imported. The import of currency notes and coins of the former Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland is pro- hibited. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted or controlled. Outward transfers of capital, including those to other parts of the Sterling Area, are con- trolled, but nonresidents are permitted to repatri- ate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country f rom sources outside Malawi; there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign- owned companies. 5 Imp l em en ts of wa r, p e t ro l eum p roduc t s, n i c k e l, atomic energy m a t e r i a l s, and ce r ta in a g r i c u l t u r al and a n im al p roduc ts. 276 In general, residents are not permitted to trans- fer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. How- ever, residents may purchase foreign securities (except bearer securities) quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and held to the order of an authorized dealer, and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are permitted to be repatriated by the exchange control authorities of the country con- cerned. All income earned from these investments must be repatriated, and the corresponding foreign exchange must be sold to an authorized dealer. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: ( 1) Persons 50 years of age and over who were self- employed and are leaving the country on retire- ment, or those qualifying for a pension in terms of their contract employment, are allowed exchange up to <£M 7,500 whether single or married. (2) Married persons who have not reached the age of retirement are allowed <£M 3,000 on departure, together with <£M 250 for each child, up to a max imum of <£M 4,000 for a family. ( 3) Unmar- ried persons who have not reached retirement age are allowed <£M 1,500 on departure. (4) The balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but he is permitted to transfer to his new country of resi- dence a sum equal to the original emigration allow- ance on each anniversary of his departure from Malawi, up to a max imum of <£M 4,000. Appli- cations for emigrant's allowances, whether initial or subsequent, must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval. Residents require prior approval to lend to non- residents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly from outside Malawi. Gold Residents of Malawi may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the mone- tary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imports by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties and industrial users. Changes during 1967 January 1-17. Revised import control regula- tions were issued by Government Notices Nos. 22, 23, and 31. Notice No. 31, issued on Janua ry 17, contained a new open general license for imports. Notice No. 22 introduced a licensing requirement for imports from Rhodesia of seven groups of primary commodities and for all exports of nickel, cobalt, u ran ium, and certain rare metals. January 1. A new customs tariff went into effect, replacing the customs tariff (as amended) of the former Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasa- land. The new tariff eliminated the special rates of duty under bilateral trade agreements but did contain two preferential columns, one applicable to the United Kingdom and the other to the other MALAWI Commonwealth countries and to certain fo rmer Commonwealth countries (including Rhodesia and South A f r i c a ). March 10. A list was published in Government Notice No. 75 of products in the agricultural and food sectors, the import and export of which might be restricted or prohibited by orders issued by the Minister of Economic Affairs. Also issued (in Government Notice No. 80) were two lists of such products that were, in fact, subject to import or export license. March 13. A preferential trade agreement was signed w i th South Africa, which entered into force on April 1, 1967. It replaced the trade agreement concluded by the former Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland in May 1960. November 20. The par value of the Malawi pound was changed from £,M 1 = US$2.80 to £M 1 = US$2.40. 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Malaysian Dollar or M$3.06122 = US$1. The Central Bank of Malaysia (Bank Negara Malaysia) stands ready to buy Malaysian currency against sterling at 32.5573d. per M$l and to sell Malaysian currency for sterling at 32.776Id. per M $ l. Malaysian, Singapore, and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charges, at the Central Bank and the commercial banks. The Central Bank has not established official buy ing and selling rates for other currencies. The commercial banks quote mu tua l ly agreed rates for customers for most Sterling Area currencies and for specified curren- cies.1 The rates are calculated on the basis of quotations for Malaysian dollars against sterling in the Kuala Lumpur exchange market and the quotations for other currencies against sterling in the London exchange marke t. On December 31, 1967, the ma rket rate for the U.S. dollar was M$3.06 per US$1. Authorized banks are per- mitted to deal forward in all currencies. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malaysia administers exchange control on behalf of the Malaysian Government throughout Malaysia (West Malaysia, i.e., fo rme r ly the States of Malaya, and East Malaysia, i.e., former ly the States of Sabah and S a r aw ak ) .2 Much of the au thor i ty for approving normal current paymen ts is delegated to com- mercial banks authorized for this purpose. The au thor i ty for import control rests with the Central Government. The day-to-day administration of import control in West Malaysia and Sabah is carried out jo in t ly by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try and the Royal Customs and Excise, and that in Sarawak by the Royal Customs and Excise. 1 These spec if ied c u r r e n c i es are l is ted as Au s t r ian s c h i l l i n g s, B e lg i an f r a n c s, C a n a d i an do l lars, Danish k r o n e r, d eu t s che m a r k, F rench f r a n c s, I t a l i an lire, Japa- nese yen, N e t h e r l a n ds gu i lde rs, No rw eg i an k rone r, Po r tu- guese escudos, Span ish pesetas, Swedish k rone r, Swiss f r a n c s, and U.S. do l la rs. 2 L a b u an and P en ang a re f ree ports. 278 Prescription of Currency Malaysia is a member of the Sterling Area and generally follows the prescription of currency arrangements and the sterling payments system of the United Kingdom. All payments to and f rom Sterling Area countries must be made in a Sterling Area currency. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made either in Malaysian dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Receipts from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be obtained either in Malaysian dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds sold to a bank in Malaysia, with transfers of Malaysian dollars or sterling from other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for transfer to countries outside the Sterling Area. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tar iffs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have not as yet been unified, although steps toward f u ll un if ica t ion are being taken. Some internal ta r i f fs and other trade restrictions still exist between parts of Malaysia. Most imports are perm i t ted freely under open general licenses. Depending on the na ture and origin of the goods, specific licenses are required for certain imports ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for health, security, or moral reasons; certain conditions must be satisfied before licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quantitative restriction pending the introduction of protective customs duties to protect local industries. Imports into all parts of Malaysia of all com- modities from South Africa, Rhodesia, or any territory administered by Rhodesia, and of certain categories of textiles, household articles, steel goods, and bicycles f rom Mainland China, are prohibited. In respect of West Malaysia, imports of rice from any country are conditional on the importer purchasing one ton of rice from the gov- ernment reserve stockpile for every ton impo r ted ;3 imports of wheat flour and rice bran from all sources and imports of sugar 4 are subject to quan- titative restriction for protective reasons; those of wheat flour are prohibited in principle, and since August 1, 1966 no import licenses have been issued. Where necessary, permission is given freely for payments in foreign currency for all permitted imports. Payments in foreign currency are per- mitted freely for goods on open general license; for imports that require a special license, exchange control approval is forthcoming when the license has been granted. Virtually all imports into Malaysia (including Penang but excluding Labuan) are subject to a surtax of 2 per cent of the c.i.f. value, unless they are intended for re-export or for export af ter processing. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling Area may be made freely. Payments related to commercial transactions and personal payments to other countries, except Rhodesia, are, in general, authorized. There are no restric- tions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Special arrangements permit fam i ly remittances to Mainland China to be made through licensed remittance shops up to M$45 from a fam i ly in any one month. Remit- tances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and 3 This ra t io is var ied f rom t ime to t ime depending on the tu rnover of o f f ic ial stocks. 4 In c lud ing jaggery, rock sugar, and molasses u n d er t a r i ff codes 061 101, 061 109, and 061 500. MALAYSIA agreed profits on all bona fide investments are subject to exchange control approval, which nor- mally is given freely. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than M$500 in Malaysian notes and the equivalent of <£ stg. 250 in foreign notes may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers; there is, however, no restriction on the amount of Malaysian notes that may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers going direct to Brunei or Singapore. Exports and Export Proceeds The three territories of Malaysia at present maintain separate export control systems, although the Federal Government retains the right to legis- late in respect of exports from any Malaysian ter- ritory. Exchange control approval is required for all exports exceeding M$20,000 in value to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area; this requirement serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accordance with the prescription of currency regu- lations and are sold to an authorized bank in Malaysia. However, goods sold to non-Sterling Area countries through intermediaries in the United Kingdom or Singapore and shipped direct from Malaysia are exempt from the requirement that the proceeds be sold to a bank in Malaysia. Furthermore, banks in Singapore are authorized to give exchange control approval for exports of Malaysian commodities to non-Sterling Area countries and to certify receipt of the foreign exchange proceeds.5 Exports of rubber from West Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange. Exports of rubber and tin to South Afr ica and any territory admin- istered by South Africa are prohibited. All exports to Rhodesia and any territory administered by Rhodesia are also prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers coming direct from Brunei or Singapore may bring in any amount in Malaysian notes, and other travelers may bring in M$500; otherwise, per- 5 W i th e f fect f rom June 1, 1968, all exports from Malay- sia to countries outside the Sterling Area would have to be au thor ized by a bank in Malaysia and the foreign exchange proceeds sold to a bank in Malaysia. With e f fect f rom the same date, Malaysian exchange control forms wou ld have to be completed and authorized by banks in Ma lays ia for all such exports va lued at M$5,000 or more. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA mission is required for the import of Malaysian notes. Permission is also required for the import of currency notes of India, Indonesia, and Rhode- sia. No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and from other countries in the Sterling Area. Inward and outward capital transfers between Malaysia and countries outside the Sterling Area require exchange control approval; such approval is freely granted for inward transfers, but the sub- sequent utilization of nonresident-owned funds in Malaysia in most cases is subject to individual exchange control approval. Investment by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia in quoted stocks and bonds is freely permitted if made through a recognized stock exchange with funds from an External Account or transferred in a specified currency; investment in stocks and bonds is subject to individual approval, if it is to be made otherwise. Investments in new industrial and development projects that have been granted "pioneer status" are not restricted. The transfer to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area of capital held or accruing in Malaysia is generally permitted but requires prior exchange control approval. Investments by Malaysian nationals in countries outside the Sterling Area may be made upon approval of the exchange control authori- ties; this is given only when such investments are considered to serve the economic interest of the country. Gold Residents other than authorized dealers are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than gold that has been manufactured into jewelry. Goldsmiths are, however, permitted to purchase certain quantities of gold f rom an authorized dealer for the manufacture of bona fide jewelry and ornaments. Permission for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler is not normally given except for imports by author- ized dealers to meet the genuine requirements of goldsmiths for manufacturing jewelry and orna- ments and for industrial uses. Exports of gold in 280 any form other than jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler are prohibited. Changes during 1967 January 19. A surtax of 2 per cent was placed on the c.i.f. value of all imports into Malaysia (including Penang but excluding Labuan) except rice, salt, crude petroleum, and certain items the duty on which was bound by trade agreements. Import duty was levied on certain imports into the free port of Penang. An initial import duty of 5 per cent was imposed on completely built-up vehicles imported into West Malaysia. It was announced that from April 1 an additional export duty of M$0.02 per pound would be levied on all loose rubber exported from West Malaysia; on December 29, however, the introduction of the duty was postponed indefinitely. March 9. Imports of carpets and bovine leather into West Malaysia and Penang became subject to quantitative restrictions. Imports of leather, other than bovine, and reptile skins into West Malaysia and Penang became subject to specific licensing but not to quotas. April 3. A trade agreement with the U.S.S.R. was signed, which provided for most-favored- nation treatment in matters of trade (including customs duties and the issuance of import and export licenses) and shipping and for nondis- criminatory application of import restrictions. The expansion of direct trade between the two coun- tries would be promoted. Payments in respect of current transactions were to be made in converti- ble currencies. The agreement entered into force immediately. May 11. Imports of unmilled wheat into West Malaysia and Penang were made subject to spe- cific licensing. June 5. Malaysia and Singapore announced interchangeability arrangements for their separate currencies (see June 12). The effect was that banks in each country would accept, at par and without charge, notes and coins issued by the currency authorities of the other country and exchange such notes and coins into notes and coins of the country concerned. In turn, each currency authority would arrange for repatriation of the notes and coins issued by the other authori- ties and receive, at par, the equivalent in sterling ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or some other agreed currency. Subsequently, the Brunei Currency Board announced corresponding arrangements for the Brunei dollar. Persons travel- ing in Malaysia, Singapore, and Brunei would therefore be able to use notes and coins of any of the three countries concerned. June 12. The Central Bank of Malaysia replaced the Board of Commissioners of Cur- rency, Malaya and British Borneo, as the sole currency issuing authority in Malaysia and started issuing the Malaysian dollar to replace gradually the Malayan dollar issued by the latter. The agreed par value of the new currency was the same as that of the old. Malayan dollars were exchange- able for Malaysian dollars at par (see also November 19, be low ). June 15. Revised lists went into effect for West Malaysia and Penang of imports subject to quota and of imports subject to specific license but not to quota. The effect was that imports of many add i t ional commodities were restricted. June 19. Imported raw materials for re-export such as tin ore, raw rubber for remilling, and tuna fish were exempted f rom the 2 per cent import surtax. July 17. Following the abolition on April 12, 1967 of Blocked Accounts in the United King- dom, Blocked Malaysian Dollar Accounts were abolished. Subject to prior exchange control approval, existing balances in Blocked Accounts and proceeds from sales of investments in Malay- sia by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area could be freely repatriated. Previously, most capital proceeds (other than funds invested in "pioneer status" enterprises) due to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area were not permitted to be transferred abroad but had to be credited to the Blocked Accounts; balances in such accounts could either be invested in Malay- sian securities with a ma tur i ty beyond five years or be transferred to a Blocked Account in the United Kingdom, in which case the funds could be realized through the security sterling ma rke t. July 27. Quan t i ta t ive restrictions were removed on the import of large household refrigerators into West Malaysia, East Malaysia, and Penang. MALAYSIA Imports of television receivers and certain parts into West Malaysia and Penang were made sub- ject to specific licensing. August 7. Malaysia signed the Declaration of Bangkok creating the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN ). August 10. Imports of motorcycles and their accessories and scooters were made subject to quantitative restriction and specific licensing, except in Labuan. August 10. An order was issued by the Minis- ter of Finance under the power given by the Cus- toms (Malaysian Common Tar iffs) Act, 1966 to bring some 1,640 items under the Malaysian common import tariff, i.e., about 60 per cent of all items listed in the Malaysian Trade Classifica- tion and Customs Tariff. The order was to apply throughout the Federation, except Penang and Labuan (where it applied only for some 100 and some 30 tariff items, respectively, that became dutiable the re ). The effect of the order was that the goods affected could be moved duty-free throughout Malaysia. September 1. Reduced import quotas for pas- senger automobiles went into effect. September 14. Imports of iron or steel tubes became subject to specific licensing and quantita- tive restriction. September 21. The prohibition on the import of bicycles was extended to parts and accessories. Imports of certain rice-milling machinery into West Malaysia were prohibited, except under an import license. October 12. from licensing. Imports of carpets were freed November 19. Following the devaluation of the pound sterling on November 18, the par value of the new Malaysian dollar was maintained, while the rate in terms of sterling of the old Malayan dollar was left unchanged at 2s. 4d. As a result, the Ma layan dollar was depreciated to M$0.8571. November 30. Buses and trucks no longer required an individual license, provided that they were imported completely unassembled. 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution M A L I1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Republic of Mali has been established with the Fund. The official un it of currency is the Mali Franc, defined as a monetary un it containing 0.0018 gram of fine gold. Parity rates for the CFA f ranc, the French franc, and the U.S. dollar are MF 2, MF 100, and MF 493.706 respectively. Only the Bank of the Republic of Mali is authorized to carry out exchange transactions with the public. Purchases and sales of French francs and CFA francs are made by the Bank of the Republic at their respective parities. The official buy ing rate for the U.S. dollar is MF 490, and the selling rate is MF 492; for 19 additional curren- cies 2 official buy ing and selling rates also are fixed. Rates for other currencies are established separately for each operation. Bilateral payments arrangements with a number of countries (see section on Prescription of Currency, below) pro- vide for settlements of transactions covered by these arrangements through accounts denominated either in Mali francs or in other specified cur- rencies; rates for these specified currencies are unitary. The Bank of the Republic is in charge of settle- ments covered by bilateral payments agreements. Settlements with other countries are generally made directly with the countries concerned. Administration of Control The Bank of the Republic has sole authority in exchange control matters; it exerts this authority through the Exchange Control Office, one of its departments. None of its exchange control powers has been delegated to any other bank or institution. Licenses for imports are issued by the Ministry of Commerce; those for imports of investment goods must be countersigned by the Ministry of Planning. Unless confirmed by the Bank of the Republic, import licenses do not constitute author- 1 This survey presents the position on December 31, 1967. Cer ta in changes that took place in Ma rch 1968 are described in a note at the end of th is su rvey. 2 Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f r an c s, Canad ian do l lars, CFA f r an c s, D a n i sh k r o n e r, deu t sche m a r k, French f ranc s, I t a l i an l i r e, Lebanese pound s, Moroccan d i r h am s, N e t h e r l a n ds gu i lde r s, N i g e r i an pound s, No rweg ian k ro- ner, pounds s te r l ing, Por tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rono r, Swiss f rancs, and Yugoslav d ina rs. 282 ization for mak ing payment for imports; the Bank is not obliged to make the corresponding transfers. A stamp tax is levied on import and export licenses and on applications for financial transfers. The tax is MF 200 for each MF 100,000 or frac- tion thereof on amoun ts up to MF 1 million. On amounts in excess of MF 1 million, the tax is MF 1,000 for each MF 1 million or fraction thereof. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments arrangements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agreements. Bilateral accounts are main- tained with Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, Camer- oon, Mainland China, Congo (Brazzav i l le), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, North Korea, Maur i tan ia, Morocco, Poland, Ruman ia, Senegal, the U.S.S.R., the United Arab Republic, North Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia.3 Payments with Niger are channeled through an account maintained by the Bank of the Republic at the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfr ique de TOuest (BCEAO) in Niamey. There are no special prescription of currency regulations applicable to settlements with other countries; settlements with these countries that require individual licenses must be made in con- vertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Exchange control regulations provide for two categories of nonresident accounts: ( 1) Free Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Currencies and (2) Nonresident Accounts in Mali Francs. The first category may be credited only with transfers f rom abroad of convertible currencies; the accounts may be used for all payments in Mali and for transfers abroad subject to the approval of the Bank of the Republic, which is granted freely. Transfers between these accounts are free. The second category may be credited with amounts due to nonresidents in Mali francs for rents, capital receipts, etc. Debits from these accounts may be 3 The paymen ts a r rangemen ts w i th A lban ia, Cameroon, Congo (B r a z z a v i l l e ), and M a u r i t a n ia are inope ra t ive. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution made in accordance with the provisions of the exchange control regulations. All operations through these accounts require the approval of the Bank of the Republic. Certain categories of nonresident funds in Mali francs of a capital or other na tu re are credited to special foreign accounts, which are de facto blocked. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, safety, and similar reasons. Imports of all other goods require individual licenses. Licenses are valid up to six months; however, if the need for a longer period is justified, they may be extended for three months. Import licenses are of two kinds —licenses for which the Bank of the Republic grants foreign exchange and licenses "without foreign exchange" for transactions to be financed by the importer with funds he holds abroad or receives under the EXIC procedure (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low). Imports may be made either by private import- ers or by state enterprises, among which the Societe Malienne de I'lmport-Export (SOMIEX) is by far the most important, having a monopoly over the import of 11 items.4 All imports from and exports to countries that have payments agree- ments with Mali are made by SOMIEX or Unicoop. An allocation commission establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his turn- over and the number of his employees. Import licenses are issued to the private importer up to the limit of the quota accorded to him. In addition, importers may import any goods "without for- eign exchange" or under the EXIC procedure. Payments for imports may be made only when authorized by the Bank of the Republic, the import license being a document required for cus- toms clearance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require ind iv idual approval, which is granted on a restricted basis. Payments for expenses incidental to foreign trade are permitted when payment for the basic import 4 Flour, m i lk, salt, sugar, oil, tea, soap, matches, ciga- re t tes, cemen t, and em p ty bags; t r a de in the se commod i- t ies is reserved for SOM IEX. MALI transaction is authorized, or when the export trans- action is permitted. Specified current payments are licensed up to established limits (e.g., percentages of salaries drawn by fore igners). Income and profits f rom nonresident invest- ments in Mali that are granted benefits under the special foreign investment law (see section on Capital, below) may be transferred in accordance with provisions of investment agreements con- cluded by the Government with individual non- resident investors. Foreign enterprises operating in Mali that are not granted the benefits of the special foreign investment law may only transfer abroad up to 25 per cent of their income or profits. Residents of Mali may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of MF 3,000 a day for official or business trips. This daily exchange allowance may be increased to the equivalent of MF 5,000 a day if the increase is justified by the high cost of living in the country to be visited. In exceptional cases, higher exchange allowances may be granted. Nonresidents leaving Mali af ter a temporary stay may export foreign means of payment up to the amount declared upon entry into the country. They may also exchange Malian currency for for- eign currency, provided that they can prove the previous sale of such foreign currency to the Bank of the Republic or to an authorized agent. The export of Malian currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require individual licenses in order to assure the repatriation of export proceeds. The export of cotton from irrigated land, groundnuts, hides, skins, and meat, which constitute most of the controlled export trade, is reserved for state enterprises. With the exceptions mentioned below, proceeds accruing from exports must be surrendered. At the time the export licenses are issued, exporters are required by law to make a guarantee deposit equal to 10 per cent of the value of the intended exports; this deposit is returned upon submission of evidence that the exchange proceeds have been surrendered. This requirement, however, is not at present being applied. 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI Under the EXIC (Exportation et Importation Concomitante) procedure, exporters may retain 75 per cent of proceeds from exports except those covered by the monopoly of state trading com- panies and cotton exported by the Compagnie Franchise pour le Developpement des Fibres Tex- tiles (CFDT), for payment for their own imports that are made through regular official channels. Balances on EXIC accounts and import rights under the EXIC procedure are not transferable. Proceeds front Invisibles Proceeds accruing from transactions in invisi- bles must be surrendered. The import of Malian currency is prohibited. Foreign currency may be imported freely. Capital Residents, whether of foreign or Malian nation- ality, may not make capital transfers on private account without authorization. Foreigners leaving Mali permanently are per- mitted to transfer abroad ( 1) funds up to a total of six months' salary, resulting from the sale of personal property that was in their possession for at least six months, and ( 2) savings out of their salary and income earned in Mali, provided that they have not taken advantage of transfer privi- leges in respect of their salary (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Funds specified under ( 1) and ( 2) may be transferred abroad in five equal annual installments. Nonresident enterprises operating in Mali are permitted to transfer abroad in ten equal install- ments funds accruing from the partial or total liquidation of such enterprises. Funds mentioned in this and the preceding paragraph that are kept on special foreign accounts with the Bank of the Republic bear 3 per cent interest a year, which is transferable. All or part of certain categories of funds in Mali francs owned by nonresidents may be used to purchase 3 per cent 20-year bonds issued by the Bank of the Republic or to make investments that are approved by the Ministry of Planning. Proceeds f rom the amortization of bonds as well as interest on them may be transferred abroad. According to Law No. 62 of January 15, 1962, the Government may grant special privileged sta- 284 tus, providing for transfer, tax, and other prefer- ential treatment, to nonresident investments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Eco- nomic Plan. Under this law, each foreign invest- ment is treated individually. Preferential investment treatment may permit (1) the transfer of profits during a period not exceeding 15 years and the repatriation of pro- ceeds accruing from the liquidation of an invest- ment or ( 2) the transfer during a period to be established in each case of agreed amounts that would include the value of investments and profits, the max imum yearly rate of which is also to be agreed. In the latter instance, an enterprise becomes the property of the Government without any indemnity, af ter the established period has lapsed. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Mali for numismatic purposes and for ornaments. With this exception, residents other than the mone- tary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold may be made freely. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1967 During the year, the authorities suspended until fu r ther notice the application of the requirement providing for a 10 per cent guarantee deposit pay- able upon application for an export license. February 15. An agreement concerning mone- tary relations with France was signed. Mali would create a new, jointly managed bank of issue. France would then ensure the free con- vertibility of Mali's currency. For that purpose, an Operations Account would be opened with the French Treasury. Subsequently, after a period to be agreed upon, Mali would resume membership in the West African Monetary Union. May 5. The official exchange rate was changed from MF 246.853 = US$1 to MF 493.706 = US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May 9. By Arrete No. 401, exporters of com- modities other than those under state monopoly or cotton sold by the CFDT were permitted to retain on EXIC accounts 75 per cent of export proceeds instead of 40 or 50 per cent, as previously. May 9. Arrete No. 401 permitted resident and nonresident holders of gold or foreign exchange to import these freely and to surrender them without explaining their origin. Foreign banknotes could be surrendered anonymously. May 13. Arrete No. 421 prohibited the estab- lishment of new import or export firms. July 1. By virtue of Law No. 67/AN-RM of Ju ly 6, 1967, all means of paymen t, including Malian currency and foreign exchange, were con- sidered merchandise. Infractions of the exchange regulations became punishable as infractions of the customs regulations. July 1. Law No. 67-31 introduced a special export tax. The commodities on which it was levied included groundnuts and raw cotton. July 1. Imports under the EXIC procedure and imports "without foreign exchange" were no longer limited to specified commodities. July 1. By virtue of Law No. 67-29 of June 30, 1967, the m in imum rate of the "special import tax" was raised from 6 per cent to 10 per cent. The other rates at which the tax was levied remained unchanged at 15 per cent and 25 per cent. MALI Fertilizers, agricultural tractors, cane sugar, and certain other commodities were exempted from all import duties and import taxes by virtue of Law No. 67-36 of July 12, 1967. December 19. Additional financial agreements were signed with France. These provided for free convertibility of the Mali f ranc by March 31, 1968, at the latest, on the basis of the existing exchange rate between the Mali f ranc and the French franc, and for the establishment by that date of a jointly managed bank of issue which would have an Operations Account with the French Treasury. NOTE. —On March 29, 1968, Arrete No. 240 of the Minister of Finance was issued, which had as its purpose the liberalization of exchange con- trol in line with the existing legislation of most countries of the French Franc Area. In conse- quence, since that date financial and trade pay- ments, both inward and outward, have been entirely free. Imports remain subject to a license or equivalent document, but not the correspond- ing payments. So far as manual exchange is con- cerned, the sale of foreign currency against Mali francs is limited to the equivalent of MF 50,000 for each traveler; exportation of Malian currency is unrestricted. The import or export of gold, other precious metals, and precious stones requires prior au thor iza t ion. Prior approval is also required for borrowing abroad (except in France and Monaco). 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 1 Exchange System No par value for the currency of Maur i tan ia has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Mauritanian agency of the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks in Mauritania take place at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Forward exchange transactions, which are permitted in any currency and for any period, take place at freely negotiated rates. Domestic transactions in banknotes and coins that are legal tender in Guinea or Mali are proh ib i ted ;3 otherwise there are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings, whether spot or forward, by residents or nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. There are no restrictions on paymen ts and no prescription of currency requirements, although certain controls are applied to borrowing abroad, to issues and sales of foreign securities in Mauri- tan ia, and to inward and ou twa rd direct invest- ment (see section on Capital, be low ). In practice, settlements w i th countries outside the French Franc A rea are usua l ly made through corre- spondent banks in France, either in any of the currencies of those coun tr ies —prov ided t h at the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange ma rke t —or in French f rancs; settlements w i th other countries of the French Franc Area are usua l ly made in currenc ies of that Area, in prac- tice ma in ly in French f rancs. There is an inopera- tive paymen ts agreement w i th Ma l i. 1 In v iew of a change th at took place on J a n u a ry 1, 1968 (see note at the end of th is s u r v e y ), th is survey presents the s i tua t ion on t h at da te. 2 The CFA f r a nc is issued by the B a n q ue Cen t ra le des Etats de I 'A f r ique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common c u r r e n cy in Dahomey, Ivo ry Coast, M a u r i t a n i a, N ige r, Senegal, Togo, and Upp er Vo l ta. "Dec ree No. 68-138 of Ap r il 18, 1968 revoked these p roh ib i t ions for M a l i an currency. Decree No. 68-123 of M a r ch 30, 1968 prohibited a ll f i n a n c i al opera t ions w i th Is rae l, Po r tug a l, and Sou th A f r i c a. 286 The following is applicable to payments and transactions between Mauritania and all foreign countries.4 Residents are not required to repatri- ate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, which may be held in Maur i tan ia or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in CFA francs or in any foreign currency may be held in Mauritania by any nonresident. Balances on nonresident accounts may be transferred freely to any type of resident or nonresident account and used for any payment in Maur i tan ia or abroad, including the purchase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment, including any amount of interest. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of foreign or domestic securi- ties. Imports and exports of gold are controlled and restricted; these require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Mauritania's control measures affecting inward and outward direct investment and borrowing abroad do not apply to relations with ( 1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; ( 2) the other member countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazza- v i l l e ), Gabon, and the Malagasy Repub l ic) .5 Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and Commerce supervises borrowing abroad by residents, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Maur i tan ia, inward and ou tward direct investment, and imports and exports of gold. In the near fu tu re, the Directorate of Exter- nal Finance (which has not yet been established) will be entrusted w i th th is supervision. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the in te rmed ia ry of the banks and the 4 Foreign coun tr ies are de f ined as all coun t r ies o ther t h an M a u r i t a n i a. 5 Ear ly in 1968, Ma li also established an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury and l ibe ra l ized i ts exchange control. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution postal administration, any informa t ion necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All registered banks in Mauritania are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licenses are issued by the Trade Bu- reau of the Foreign Trade Department in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce, which also issues import certificates for liberalized commodi- ties and export certificates. For statistical pur- poses only, the BCEAO stamps its visa on all import and export licenses. The National Import and Export Corporation (SONIMEX) has a monopoly over imports of certain essential food- s tu f fs and certain textiles. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Israeli, Portuguese, and South A f r i- can origin and/or provenance are prohibited. The import of a few goods is prohibited from any source for reasons of health or public policy. With these exceptions, imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area are free of license and quan t i ta t ive restrictions. Most imports from other countries are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, determined each year by a joint French-Mauritanian Committee. Under this program, global quotas are established for nonliberalized imports f rom EEC countries other than France and for imports from all other coun- tries outside the French Franc Area; the quotas for the non-EEC countries may also be used for imports f rom EEC countries. The quotas fix the limits up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities to licensed traders and to indus tr ial or agricultural producers. Virtually all imports from EEC countries other than France, and some imports from all sources, are liberalized; there are three liberalization lists, applicable respectively to the former OEEC area, to the United States and Canada, and to all countries outside the French Franc Area. For goods admit- ted w i thout quan t i ta t ive restriction, certificates of importation are issued. The National Import and Export Corporation (SONIMEX) has a monopoly over the import of sugar, rice, green tea, percales, and Guinea cloth. Payments for imports f rom all countries may be made free ly, at any time, and w i thout any for- MAURITANIA mality. Commodity fu tu r es may be dealt in freely, in Mau r i tan ia or abroad. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles to all countries may be made freely without individual license. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in domestic and foreign banknotes. How- ever, persons normally resident in Maur i tan ia, when traveling to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union, must declare to the customs authorities at the point of exit the amount of BCEAO banknotes they are carrying if this amount exceeds CFAF 150,000. Travelers also may freely take out up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Exports to other countries may also be made freely but require an export certifi- cate. All exports to Israel, Portugal, and South Afr ica are prohibited. The repatriation and surrender of export pro- ceeds is not required. Exporters may grant credit for any period and are free to sell forward their anticipated export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to non- residents and the proceeds f rom invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes other than Guinean and Malian banknotes, whose import is prohibited.6 Travelers may also bring in up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Capital Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license, through banks or any other channel. Foreign and domestic securities of all types may be freely imported or exported physically, whether through the inter- mediary of a bank or not, and transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic 3 However, see footnote 3. 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA and foreign real estate (except when forming part of a direct investment) are unrestricted. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation and may (except when forming part of a direct investment) be freely disposed of. Certain controls are maintained over borrow- ing abroad, over inward and outward direct invest- ment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania, but these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts; with the exception of those over the issuing or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania, the con- trol measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in Maur i tan ia ,7 and Maur i tan ian direct investments abroad,8 must be declared to the Minister of Finance when they are being made, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting f rom reinvestment of undis- tributed profits. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Maur i tan ian investments abroad or for- eign investments in Mauritania, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days follow- ing each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, as do 7 Inc lud ing those made by companies in M a u r i t a n ia th at are d i rec t ly or ind i rec t ly u n d er foreign control and those made by b ranches or subs id iar ies in M a u r i t a n ia of fore ign companies. 8 Inc lud ing those made th rough the in t e rm ed i a ry of fore ign compan ies t h at are d i rec t ly or ind i r e c t ly con- t ro l led by persons in M a u r i t a n ia and those made by b ranches or subs id ia r ies abroad of compan ies in M a u r i t a n i a. 288 issues by Mauritanian companies. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in con- nection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Mauritanian Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Mauritania has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Mauri- tania, or by branches or subsidiaries in Mauritania of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Min- ister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans consti- tuting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Mauritania and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be notified to the Minister of Finance within 20 days, unless the total outstand- ing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad is not subject to authorization or declaration. Banks in Mauritania may freely grant overdrafts on nonresident accounts for any period. The Investment Code (Law 61-122) enacted on June 26, 1961 and amended by Law 67-168 on July 17, 1967 provides for two kinds of prefer- ential treatment for the establishment of specified companies in Mauritania: a priority regime and a long-term fiscal stability regime. Under the first regime, the proposed investment must amount to at least CFAF 75 million, to be made w i th in a period of up to 2 years, and must provide perma- nent employment for at least 20 persons. The benefits accorded under this regime include exemp- tions for a specified number of years from duties on the import of certain materials as well as f rom ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution taxes on specified income. Under the second regime, certain companies considered to be of exceptional importance to the development of the country and making a m in imum investment of CFAF 1 billion in less than 5 years are accorded special benefits, which consist mainly of the stabilization of some or all taxes for a period of up to 25 years. Gold Residents are free to hold gold in any form, at home or abroad. They are also free to acquire and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO, (2) imports and exports of m anu f a c tu r ed articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- c les), ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles (o ther than coins and bars) whose combined weight does not exceed 500 grams, and ( 4) imports and exports of up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1967 During the year, trade agreements were succes- sively concluded with Mainland China, Ruman ia, No r th Korea, Cambodia, and Congo (Brazza- v i l le ). February 15. Imports of automobiles and bicycles were freed from quantitative restriction when shipped from and originating in EEC coun- tries other than France. May 4. Mauritania signed the Protocol of Association for the establishment of a West African Economic Community. May 20. Decree No. 67-105 prohibited all imports originating in or shipped from Israel. July 1. Law No. 67-128 of June 29, 1967 established the principle that financial relations with foreign countries were free. With minor exceptions, all existing legislation contrary to this principle was revoked, including Law No. 63-027 of January 25, 1963 concerning exchange control. The law also provided for the statistical registra- MAURITANIA tion of all inward and outward payments. Previ- ously, current and capital payments to all French Franc Area countries except Mali were already not only unrestricted but also free of supervision, as were inward transfers originating in French Franc Area countries other than Mali. Normally, the repatriation and surrender of claims, earnings, and proceeds accruing abroad would no longer be required. Import and export regulations were not affected, although certain exchange control formalities were abolished; these included the requirements that import licenses and import certificates be domiciled with an authorized bank, and that exporters sign a foreign exchange commitment in respect of all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. July 1. Decree No. 67-129 of June 30, 1967 established the principal rules for the application of Law No. 67-128. The decree defined the con- cept of "foreign countries" and indicated the types of capital transactions with foreign countries that would be subject either to declaration or prior approval. It also provided that the import and export of gold, with certain exceptions, required prior approval by the Minister of Finance and that the import and export of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO were free, with the proviso that residents traveling to countries outside the West African Monetary Union must declare to the customs any amount in BCEAO notes carried if that amount exceeded CFAF 150,000. The importation, as well as the negotiation in Mauri- tania, remained prohibited of banknotes and coins that were legal tender in Guinea or Mali. July 1. Decree No. 67-130 of June 30, 1967 created a Balance of Payments Committee charged with periodically compiling a national balance of payments. For this purpose, all banks and financial institutions as well as the postal admin- istration were required to notify the BCEAO of all payments between Mauritania and foreign coun- tries, all transactions in foreign currency, all transactions in CFA francs that affected financial relations with foreign countries, and all trans- actions in securities between residents and non- residents. The BCEAO was authorized to collect, either directly or through the in termed iary of the banks and the postal adm in is tra t ion, any informa- tion necessary to compile the balance of paymen ts statistics. 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA July 17. Law No. 67-168 amended the Invest- ment Code. Commerce, and would be sent to the BCEAO for statistical registration. October 21. Circular No. 26 MF/C of the Ministry of Finance and Commerce established the procedures for the granting of import licenses and of import and export certificates. In view of the abolition of the Exchange Office, these would all be issued by the Trade Bureau of the Foreign Trade Department in the Ministry of Finance and NOTE. —The following change took place early in 1968: January L The bilateral payments agreement with Spain was terminated. Henceforth, all settle- ments with that country took place in convertible currencies. 290 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0710937 gram of fine gold per Mexican Peso or Mex$ 12.50 = US$1. The official rates are Mex$12.49 buy ing, and Mex $12.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at ma rket rates fluctuating within these limits. The closing ma rket rates on December 29, 1967 were Mex$ 12.490 buying, and Mex$ 12.491 selling, per US$1. On November 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or cur- rency for paymen ts to or from nonresidents are imposed on importers, exporters, or others. In accordance w i th paymen ts agreements with Hun- gary, Poland, Spain, and Yugoslavia, paymen ts for transactions with those countries are recorded by the Bank of Mexico through special accounts. Payments between Mexico and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela may be settled through accounts ma in ta ined with each other by the Bank of Mexico and the central banks concerned, w i th in the framework of the LAFTA mu l t i la teral clearing system. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Honduras, and N ica ragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Mexican pesos through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the cen tral banks of Central America. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made f ree ly. A few imports are prohibited. For a con- siderable number of items, import licenses from the M in is t ry of Indus t ry and Trade are required before firm orders are placed; the issuance of such licenses is sub ject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. For specified commodities, "open end" import licenses (permisos ablertos} may be granted that permit un l im i ted impo r ta t ion du r ing a specified period of t ime, such as six mon ths or a yea r; subject to screening of the importer's pe r fo rm- ance, repeated renewal of the license is possible. Some items require an import license only when imported f rom countries other than the members of LAFTA. Applications, except those for "open end" licenses, are screened by the Ministry of Industry and Trade with the aid of a committee composed of importers and pr iva te entrepre- neurs'. Import licenses for leather goods, alco- holic beverages, cigarettes, and motorcars and their spare parts are subject to an over-all annual limit. All imports by the public sector and imports of certain goods by the private sector (assembled and unassembled automobiles and trucks, iron and steel pipe, firearms, watches, synthetic fibers, some types of jewelry, radios and television sets, and wh isky, wines, and other liquors) are licensed only if the importer guarantees the export of speci- fied commodities (mainly cotton) of an equiva- lent value. Imports and exports under this com- pensation system are effected by the National Foreign Trade Bank, which levies on the importer a fee of usually between 1 per cent and 1.5 per cent of the value of the import transaction, and turns the fee minus a commission over to an export promotion fund. Exports effected under this sys- tem account for approximately 30 per cent of the value of total exports. Imports by official Mexican agencies are subject to prior approval by the Com- mittee of Public Sector Imports; this approval is not given if a reasonably competitive domestic equivalent is available, a price d ifferen t ial of 15—20 per cent generally being considered acceptable. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. The contracting of insurance for persons in Mexico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico, is permitted w i th Mexican companies or w i th branches of foreign companies established in Mexico in accordance w i th Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses. No exchange control requ iremen ts apply to the proceeds of exports. Subsidies are granted on exports of cot- ton and of certain manu fac tu red products. 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements apply to proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. New foreign investment, other than by private individuals, in Mexican banking or insurance companies and investment funds is prohibited. New industrial investments in Mexico over which foreign investors would have majority control are not permitted if similar domestic indus- tries already exist. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Mexico or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form, except jewelry constituting the personal effects of travelers, require licenses issued by the Bank of Mexico; exports of bars and coins by residents other than the monetary authorities are not normally per- mitted, and imports are generally limited to those by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1967 During the year, a number of additional com- modities became subject to individual import licensing; in several cases, it was announced that the licensing requirement would lapse after a specified period (five, seven, or ten yea rs ). May 18. The Bank of Mexico entered into a swap arrangement for up to US$130 million with the U.S. Federal Reserve System. June 2. The Bank of Mexico began authorizing sales of silver to foreign customers at prices based on London quotations instead of on New York quotations. June 25. The Minister of Finance announced that Mexico would sell its silver on the free inter- national market; previously, the Mexican silver price had been pegged to that in the United States. July 5. The amount of the reciprocal stabiliza- tion fund agreed with the United States was increased from US$75 million to US$100 million. August 1. The Bank of Mexico raised the price of silver to that on the London Metal Exchange. September 29. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the central banks of Mexico and Brazil. 292 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.175610 gram of fine gold per Moroccan Dirham or DH 5.06049 = US$1. The rate of the dirham in relation to the French f ranc is fixed at DH 1.025 per F 1; all transactions in French f rancs take place at that rate, plus or m inus a commission. The Bank of Morocco's buying and selling rates for the "convertible cur- rencies" it negotiates l and for the Spanish peseta are based on quotations in the leading foreign exchange markets abroad. The rates of the Bank of Morocco for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1967 were DH 5.0277 buying, and DH 5.0429 selling, per US$1. Transactions in clearing dpllars under bilateral paymen ts agreements are carried out on the basis of the official par values declared to the International Monetary Fund. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to marry (o f f s e t) their purchases and sales on behalf of their private customers in each currency separately. The authorized banks must purchase f rom or sell to the Bank of Morocco each day the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; compensation between banks is not permitted, so that no foreign exchange ma rket exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco makes its own purchases and sales of foreign currency mostly in the Paris exchange market but some- times in other markets. The Bank of Morocco establishes buy ing and selling rates for transac- tions w i th travelers in banknotes and travelers checks expressed in French francs, CFA francs, Spanish pesetas, and the "convertible currencies"; the authorized banks sell the Bank of Morocco their excess holdings of bankno tes and replenish them at the Bank whenever necessary. Forward exchange transactions are not perm i t ted. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Moroc- can Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This office has delegated the execution 1 These are l is ted as A u s t r i an s ch i l l ing s, B e lg i an f r a n c s, Canad ian do l la r s, Danish k rone r, deu tsche m a r k, Dji- b o u ti f r a n c s, I t a l i an l i r e, N e t h e r l a n ds gu i ld e r s. No r- weg ian k ron e r, Po r tugu e se escudos, pounds s t e r l i n g, Swedish k rone r, Swiss f r an c s, and U .S. do l l a r s. of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certificates and export licenses are issued either by the Ministry of Commerce or by its provincial delegations; they must be counter- signed by the Moroccan Exchange Office. Import commitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer himself; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the country of origin of the goods is not the country of shipment. A part of the port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange control. Prescription of Currency Morocco is pa rt of the French Franc Area but applies exchange controls to transactions with countries of the Area.2 For prescription of cur- rency purposes, countries are classified as follows: ( 1) the French Franc Area countries; (2) the payments agreement group, comprising countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral paymen ts agreements;3 and (3) all other countries, the so-called area of convertibility. Settlements w i th other parts of the French Franc Area are made in French francs or, with the exception of settlements for imports, in dirhams through French Franc Area Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). Settlements with the payments agreement group are made by debiting or crediting the payments agreements accounts established for this purpose.4 Imports originating in countries in the area of converti- bility may be paid for only in "convertible curren- cies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco (see footnote 1). Other settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Con- vertible Dirhams. -S i n ce F e b r u a ry 1967, France has app l ied to Morocco its con t ro ls on fo re ign inves tmen ts in France and on French inve s tmen ts ab road. 3 Bu lga r ia, M a i n l a nd Ch ina, C u b a, Czechos lovak ia, Eas te rn G e rm a n y, G u i n e a, H u n g a r y, M a l i, Po land, Spa in, and U.S.S.R. 4 Und er the agreement w i th Cub a, however, 25 per cent of each Moroccan payment for impor ts of com- modities must be settled in free French f rancs and 75 per cent by credit to an agreement account denominated in French f rancs and opened at the Bank of Morocco in the name of the Na t ional Bank of Cuba. 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Settlements between Morocco and the United Arab Republic are made through accounts main- tained with each other by the Bank of Morocco and the Central Bank of Egypt; the accounts are denominated in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: 1. French Franc Area Accounts are held in Moroccan currency by residents of other countries of the French Franc Area. These accounts may be used for settlements with residents of other coun- tries in the French Franc Area, except for the pay- ment for imports f rom those countries. They may be freely credited with and debited for sales or purchases of French francs (including banknotes) sold to or bought from the Bank of Morocco. Transfers between French Franc Area Accounts may be made freely. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for residents of countries in the so-called area of convertibility. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of con- vertibility (but not in respect of imports or related invisibles) and with dirhams obtained from the sale to the Bank of Morocco of "convertible cur- rencies" negotiated by it, excluding banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases from the Bank of Morocco of the "convertible currencies" negoti- ated by it, including banknotes. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar institutions) of the countries with which Morocco ma in ta ins bilateral paymen ts agreements (see foot- note 3 ), except Spain; they are used only for settle- ments with these countries, including settlements for imports and exports. All transactions on these accounts require approval. 4. Spanish Foreign Accounts in Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute and by authorized banks in Morocco for authorized banks in Spain. They are used only for settlements in accordance w i th the paymen ts agreement w i th Spain. 294 5. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any nonresident, are credited with funds that may not be transferred abroad. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries in the same currency group (the area of convertibility, the French Franc Area) or related to the same coun- try in the payments agreement group are permitted freely. Subject to certain limitations, they may be debited for purchases of Moroccan securities on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscriptions to the capital of Moroccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscriptions to long-term or short-term obliga- tions with a fixed yield issued by a Moroccan entity (short-term obligations are those that mature or became payable in five years or less); for custody charges and commissions on securi- ties held for nonresidents; for personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate fam i ly dur ing their stay in Morocco, up to DH 100 a day for each account; and for payment of the costs of maintenance, repairs, taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for purchases of specified 4 per cent ten-year government bonds; interest and redemption proceeds are transferable, and the bonds are freely negotiable between nonresidents. All other operations through Capital Accounts require individual approval. 6. Suspense Accounts are used for holding non- resident funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due to the Moroccan authorities, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports are divided into three categories appli- cable to all countries. Goods in List A are liberal- ized. Goods in List B are restricted, in many cases by a global quota, or are subject to state trading. The goods not in Lists A or B are deemed to constitute List C; in principle, their importation is not permitted."1 To import goods in List A, the importer signs an import commitment (engage- ment d'importation), which does not require ad- m in is tra t ive approval, but for goods in List B, an import license ( import certificate, certificat d'im- portation) must be obtained. 5 A List C was sub sequen t ly d rawn up. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution For certain goods in List B, protective quotas are established; for imports of such goods from any source a "quota certificate" (certificat de con- tingentement) is required. For all imports the import title —import cer- tificate or import commitment —must be domi- ciled (registered) with an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required documents. Import certificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the foreign exchange is made available. Import commitments require this visa only when the country of origin and the country of shipment of the goods con- cerned d iffer. With certain exceptions, an advance deposit of 25 per cent of the f.o.b. value must be made by importers at the time the import title ( import commitment or import certificate) is domiciled with an authorized bank; the bank must pay one half of the deposit to the Bank of Morocco to be held for account of the Treasury. For most imports from other parts of the French Franc Area, except Senegal, the advance deposit must be paid at least one month before importation takes place. Import certificates must be domiciled within a period of 15 days from the date that the Exchange Office approves the license. Import commitments must be domiciled at the time of their subscription. The following are exempt from the advance deposit requirement: government imports; imports financed with U.S. aid; imports from countries in the payments agreement group; imports from Sene- gal; specified essential imports; and imports by specified organizations. The deposit is refunded when the import has taken place and payment has been made in fu l l, or, in certain circumstances, if the import certificate or the import comm i tment is allowed to expire. Most imports from countries in the payments agreement group are made in accordance with the quotas established in the respective trade agree- ments. Imports can also be licensed under com- pensation transactions. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for most current invisibles are author- ized by the Exchange Office upon presentation of the necessary jus t if ica t ion; in several instances the approval authority has been delegated to the banks. MOROCCO The authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial transaction covered by the relevant import or export documents. Earnings af ter tax on approved nonresident investments in Morocco are transferable to the investor's country of resi- dence. The transfer of dividends on nonresident- owned shares of Moroccan companies having their main office in Morocco has been delegated to the authorized banks by the Exchange Office, provided that the shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange and that the Exchange Office has approved the amount of the dividend to be dis- tributed; the transfer of other dividends requires specific approval by the Exchange Office. Some payments are subject to limitations: A foreign employee may transfer to his country of origin, subject to the approval of the Exchange Office, 50 per cent of his wages or salary if his family does not reside in Morocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his family lives in Morocco; the same percent- ages of their earnings may be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in professions, subject (except for the medical and related professions) to a limit of DH 1,000 a month. An allocation of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 25 a trip, which may be taken up twice a year, is granted to residents of any nationality for travel abroad. Residents of foreign nationality may acquire exchange for tour- ist travel up to the equivalent of DH 5,000 for each passport a year by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange, other than banknotes from their own foreign assets not subject to surrender requirements. Foreign employees of the Moroccan Government and of public agencies or institutions, teachers of foreign nationality employed by the Ministry of National Education, and experts holding contracts within the framework of the technical cooperation agree- ments with France may obtain a complementary tourist allocation of Ptas 3,500 for travel through Spain when on leave. Applications for exchange for business travel must normally be directed to the Exchange Office, which considers each case on its merits; exporters may be granted up to DH 200 a day for up to 60 days a year, up to a limit of 1 per cent of the foreign exchange surrendered during the preceding year. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. For study in countries of the French Franc Area and in Spain, a monthly 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO allocation of foreign exchange up to DH 500 is granted, provided that no comparable educational facilities are available in Morocco; the correspond- ing allocation for the United States is DH 750 a month, and that for other countries DH 600 a month. For fam i ly maintenance, there is a monthly allocation of DH 250. Travelers are not permitted to take out Moroccan banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items. All fruits, fresh vegetables, canned goods, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported only by a state trading agency, the Office of Marketing and Export (Office de Commercialisation et d'Ex- portation—OCE). Wine exports are controlled by that Office. All exporters must sign an undertaking to repa- triate and surrender the foreign exchange pro- ceeds of their exports. The surrender of the pro- ceeds to the exporter's bank must take place within one month from the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the ma tu r i ty date fixed in the commercial contract; this date must not be set, in principle, more than 90 days af ter the date of arrival of the merchan- dise at the place of destination. When the bank receiving the funds that represent the proceeds from exports receives the advice of credit in for- eign currency from abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immediately to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds front Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroc- can companies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing from all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from current transac- tions, and only when they accrue in foreign cur- rencies other than those of the French Franc Area. The importation of Moroccan banknotes is pro- hibited. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely foreign banknotes, which must be declared upon entry. Resident travelers also may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but these must be surrendered within 15 days of re-entry. 296 Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as companies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250, and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Exchange is allocated to repatriates up to DH 35,000 a fam i ly, and on account of dowries and inheritances up to the same amount. Foreign investments in Morocco must be approved by the Exchange Office. Foreign invest- ments approved by the Investment Committee are granted various tax and customs tariff benefits and investment bonuses similar to those granted to domestic investments, in accordance with measures put into effect on February 10, 1961; they are also granted a guarantee of repatriation of the pro- ceeds from liquidation of the investment, when the investment has been financed either with con- vertible currencies or in conformity with the rules governing settlements with other countries. The Exchange Office may also grant a guarantee of retransfer of investments which are not examined by the Government Commission. The guarantee of repatriation is freely transferable between all nonresidents (if the investment has been financed with convertible currencies) and between nonresi- dents of the same country or currency area (if the investment has been financed with other curren- cies). Proceeds from the liquidation of other investments are credited to Capital Accounts. Certain government bonds acquired with funds from Capital Accounts are freely negotiable between nonresidents (see Nonresident Accounts, above ). All other transactions in securities involv- ing nonresident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment purposes. Ten d i f fe rent types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars or ingots. Imports and exports of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the Warran ty Office in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes, which derives its approval authority from the Minister of Finance. Every year the Minister of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots, which is then allocated among jewelers and other users. Gold in the form of coins, ingots, or bars is free from import duty and import taxes. Changes during 1967 January 1. Circular No. 1158 of the Exchange Office took effect. It provided that all commercial and financial settlements between Morocco and the United Arab Republic would take place through accounts denominated in U.S. dollars and maintained by the two central banks with each other. All invoices and contracts were to be expressed in U.S. dollars. The relationship between the dirham and the U.S. dollar that would be applied in settlements with the U.A.R. was the official rate of the U.S. dollar in Morocco on the date of the payment or receipt, plus or m inus 1.50 per mil. February 23. Circular No. 1159 of the Exchange Office modified the regulations govern- ing settlements between Morocco and Cuba. April 27. Exchange allocations for the trans- fer of savings were no longer granted to foreign wives of Moroccan nationals. June 19. Circular No. 1161 of the Exchange Office announced the principal fea tures of the new import regime (see June 26 ). June 26. Import policy was fundamen ta l ly revised. The special arrangements for imports MOROCCO from the French Franc Area were terminated. Notice to Importers No. 715 divided all imports into three commodity lists. Goods on List A were liberalized from all sources; they could be imported by filling out an import commitment (engagement d"importation), which did not require administra- tive approval, and domiciling it with an authorized bank. Goods on List B, which contained global quotas for most of them, required an import license, henceforth known as an import certificate (certificat d"importation), which had to be applied for in the same manner as previously and required endorsement by the Exchange Office. Goods in neither List A nor in List B were deemed to con- stitute List C; the import of these goods was prohibited. July 13. Circular No. 1164 delegated to author- ized banks, effective August 1, the power to approve transfers of savings by foreigners, pro- vided that the monthly amount did not exceed that for June 1967 by more than DH 150. This author- ity would expire on January 31, 1968. August 1. Circular No. 1167 of the Exchange Office modified import Lists A and B. September 5. Circular No. 1168 contained new regulations concerning domestic purchases and sales of foreign banknotes and travelers checks. Authorized banks could purchase these freely from residents and nonresidents, and could in certain cases delegate their authority to subagents, except that of selling foreign means of payment to resi- dents traveling abroad; such sales to residents had to be noted in their passports. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0877700 gram of fine gold per Nepalese Rupee or NRs 10.1250 = US$1. Most of Nepal's foreign exchange transactions are in terms of Ind ian rupees. The par value gives a relationship of NRs 135 = Rs 100. Administration of Control A Foreign Exchange Committee, consisting of representatives from the Nepal Rastra Bank (the central b ank) and several ministries, prepares a foreign exchange budget for foreign currencies other than the Indian rupee. Permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for all foreign pay- ments, except paymen ts for certain specified invisi- bles that require authorization f rom the Nepal Rastra Bank. Import licensing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Indus try and Commerce. All exchange transactions are made through author- ized dealers in foreign exchange, i.e., the Nepal Bank and the Rash tr iya Van i jya Bank. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requ iremen ts apply to outgoing paymen ts to countries with which no payments agreement is in force, and these may be made in the foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank —in practice mainly Ind ian rupees, and, to a smaller extent, sterling or U.S. dollars. The proceeds of exports to Ind ia are obtained in Indian or Nepalese rupees; the pro- ceeds of exports to other countries must be received in convertible currencies, such as deutsche m a rk, French f rancs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. Nepal has bilateral paymen ts agreements with Mainland China, Pak is tan, Poland, and the U.S.S.R.; pay- ments between Nepal and these countries must be made through special accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods except those originating in Ind ia (o ther than alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and tobacco p roduc ts) or Tibet requ ire import licenses f rom the M in is t ry of Indus try and Com- merce. Imports of vegetables, vegetable oil, margar ine, animal f a t, beef, arms and ammun i t ion, explosives, chemicals to be used for explosives, 298 and wireless transm i t ters are prohibited. Under the Trade and Transit Treaty of September 11, 1960, Nepal and India agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Ind ian goods; Ind ian goods may be imported freely, and imports of all commodities subject to excise du ty in Ind ia benefit f rom reimbursement of tax by the Government of India to the Government of Nepal. With the exception noted below, applications to the Ministry of Finance for foreign exchange to pay for imports from countries other than India are considered on their merits; an application must, however, be in accordance with the annual foreign exchange budget. Exporters entitled to import goods with exporters' exchange entitle- ments are, w i th in the limits of their en t i t lemen t, granted a license automatically for goods specified by the Minister of Indus try and Commerce (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). Certain imports f rom all sources are subject to import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Ind ian rupees. Payments to other countries for invisibles related to commercial transactions are usually authorized; paymen ts for freight and insur- ance are given the same trea tment as the related import paymen ts. For travel to countries other than India for medical t rea tmen t, foreign exchange is allowed up to the equivalent of US$1,000; students studying at their own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$1,500 a year for board and lodging. Payments for other invisibles depend on the essen- tiality of the transaction and the availability of for- eign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be taken out freely to India by Nepalese and Ind ian nationals only; the export of these curren- cies to countries other than India is prohibited. Foreign banknotes other than Indian bankno tes may not be taken out by residents w i thout permis- sion. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they brought in; however, nonresidents other than Indian nationals may not take out Nepalese or Ind ian bankno tes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of old coins, gold and silver and coins and jewelry made of these metals, cows, buffaloes, and rhinoceros horns are prohibited. The re- export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not nor- mally permitted, and re-exports to any destination of kerosene, gasoline, cement, iron bars, and pack- aged foods tuffs are prohibited. All other goods may be exported freely. The exchange proceeds of exports, except Indian rupees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official buying rate of exchange. The exporter receives from the Ministry of Finance an exporters' exchange en t i t lement corresponding to a specified proportion of his export proceeds in foreign cur- rencies other than Indian rupees; the entitlement may be used to obtain exchange at the official rate for the import of goods specified by the Ministry of Indus try and Commerce. Entitlements granted to industries may be used only for raw materials, spare parts, and machinery, all for their own pro- duction, and for salaries payable in foreign exchange. Exporters engaged in bilateral trade are granted entitlements corresponding to 40 per cent of their export earnings for imports of their choice; the rema in ing 60 per cent must be used to import specified commodities. Other exporters receive en t i t lemen ts corresponding to 20 per cent of the proceeds from exports of raw ju te, 40 per cent of those f rom exports of ju te m anu f a c tu r es and musk, and 60 per cent of those f rom exports of all other goods. Industries exporting j u te and ju te goods receive entitlements corresponding to up to 45 per cent of their export proceeds to import raw materials for their industries. Other indus- tries exporting the ir own products and not incur- ring heavy fore ign exchange expenditures receive entitlements corresponding to 30 per cent of their export proceeds. Industries incurr ing heavy for- eign exchange expenditures receive entitlements of 55-85 per cent of total export earnings in a fiscal year. Proceeds from Invisibles W i th the exception of Ind ian rupees, fo re ign exchange proceeds derived from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal R a s t ra NEPAL Bank or an authorized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in freely from India by Nepalese and Indian nationals; the import of these currencies from countries other than India is prohibited. Non- residents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Other foreign banknotes may be brought in freely. Capital No conditions are laid down concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital remittances by Nepalese nationals. Nepa- lese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited from mak ing any type of invest- ment in foreign countries except investment spe- cifically exempted by government notice published in the Official Gazette; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any bank ing or financial institution incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. Foreign investors in Nepal who obtain an invest- ment guarantee may remit yearly profits of up to 10 per cent of the capital invested and, in any one year, up to 25 per cent of the principal; if the exchange situation permits, profits in excess of 10 per cent are remittable. Industrial enterprises capitalized at US$65,000 or more may be wholly owned by foreign interests. Nepal has a bilateral Investment Guarantee Agreement w i th the United States. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm in Nepal. Imports of gold from any coun try other than Ind ia require a license. Exports of gold may only be made by the mone- tary authorities and require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Changes during 1967 March 8. The export incentive scheme was amended. June 5. The Government issued the Export- Import (Con tro l) Regulations, 1967, providing for the introduction of a licensing system for specified imports from and exports to India. A 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL Notice issued on the same date by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce specified the goods for which import licenses would be required. An Import Management Committee was created to advise the Government on matters relating to import licensing policy. No ceilings on imports from India were established, and import licenses were granted upon application. September 11. Imports of cement from India required a license. December 11. An initial par value of NRs 10.1250 = US$1 was agreed with the Inter- national Monetary Fund. This par value repre- sented a devaluation of 24.75 per cent from the previous official exchange rate of the Nepalese rupee. December 12. Export taxes on a number of products were raised: these included cereals and raw jute (by 50 per cen t ); sugar and metals (by 100 per cen t ); oilseeds (by 25 per cen t ); vegetable oils (by 20 per cen t ); spices (by 30 per cen t ); and sugar cane (by 33 per cen t). Export duties on logs were raised from 1 per cent ad valorem to 15 per cent and those on timber from 1 per cent to 10 per cent. The export exchange entitlements were reduced for raw jute and ju te manufactures. December 12. Most surcharges on imports were removed. They were continued at reduced levels for such commodities as cigarettes, cotton, iron and steel products, diesel oil and gasoline, and automobiles and their spare parts. December 12. The Export-Import (Control) Regulations, 1967 were rescinded. Licensing of imports from India was abolished, except for alco- holic beverages, tobacco, and tobacco products. December 13. The export incentive scheme was amended. 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.245489 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Guilder or f. 3.62 = US$1. The offi- cial limits are f. 3.59]/4 buying, and f. 3.64% sell- ing, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to deal; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for other cur- rencies vary between limits that result f rom com- bining the official limits for the U.S. dollar main- tained by the Netherlands and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible currencies * and inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward, against' con- vertible currencies, including guilders on Converti- ble Guilder Accounts, and inconvertible curren- cies; they are free to deal with residents and nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. For- ward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period. Residents are permitted to con- clude spot transactions with other residents, including authorized banks, and they may conclude forward transactions for any period with autho- rized banks; residents other than banks are free to hold foreign currency accounts at home and on application are permitted to hold such accounts in their own names with banks abroad. The Kingdom of the Netherlands accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory All transactions with the Netherlands Antilles and Surinam are subject to exchange control. However, vis-a-vis third countries with which pay- ments agreements are in force, the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles, and Surinam constitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Neth- erlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign 1 These are l i s t ed in the N e t h e r l a n ds r egu l a t ions as A u s t r i an s ch i l l ing s, Be lg ian f ranc s, Canad ian do l lars, Dan ish k rone r, d eu t s che m a r k, French f ranc s, I ta l ian l i r e, No rweg ian k rone r, Po r tuguese escudos, pounds ster- l i n g, Swedish k rone r, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. do l la rs. Affairs, Finance, Economic Affairs, and Agricul- ture. Import and export licensing are handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Rela- tions. Invisibles and capital transactions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank, as are all transit trade transactions. All commercial banks of any importance are authorized to handle for- eign exchange transactions within the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licens- ing authorities. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents, if eligible for trans- fer abroad, must be made through an authorized bank, either in guilders to the credit of a nonresi- dent guilder account held with an authorized bank in the Netherlands or to the debit of the authorized bank's currency holdings abroad. All foreign countries except Indonesia and the U.S.S.R. are included in the "convertible guilder area." Payments to countries in the convertible guilder area may be made in any foreign currency or in guilders to the credit of any nonresident account. Receipts from countries in the converti- ble guilder area must be obtained in the converti- ble currencies (see footnote 1), or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low); how- ever, receipts may also be collected in other cur- rencies, provided that the amounts received are deposited w i th the Netherlands Bank or an author- ized bank. Some transactions with Indonesia and most transactions with the U.S.S.R. are settled in guilders by crediting or debiting the Bilateral Guilder Account of a banking institution of the country concerned; receipts may also be obtained in the convertible currencies, or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident guilder accounts are as follows:2 2 Ce r ta in ba lances and securities deposits belonging to nonresidents residing in Indonesia are designated W- accounts and W-deposits, respectively; the ir disposal must be licensed by the N e th e r l ands Bank. 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 1. Convertible Guilder Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident. They may be credited with transfers from other Con- vertible Guilder Accounts, with permitted pay- ments by residents of the Netherlands to residents of countries of the convertible guilder area, with proceeds from the sale of gold or convertible cur- rencies, and with Netherlands notes and coins remitted or deposited by nonresidents. They may be debited for payments to residents for exports and services rendered to any country and for other permitted transactions, including purchases of for- eign currencies. Balances on these accounts may be transferred to any other nonresident account. 2. Bilateral Guilder Accounts. These accounts are held exclusively by banking institutions estab- lished in Indonesia and the U.S.S.R. and are used for the settlement of transactions between the Netherlands and the respective country. They may be credited with transfers from any Convertible Guilder Account or from another Bilateral Guilder Account related to the same country, and with pro- ceeds from the sale in the Netherlands of gold or convertible currencies. They may be debited for transfers to another Bilateral Guilder Account related to the same country. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Import licenses are required for many textiles unless they are imported from the Belgian-Luxembourg Eco- nomic Union and do not originate in Hong Kong, Japan, or a state trading country. In addition to these, import licenses are required only for imports from Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading coun- tries, and for the import of goods of unknown ori- gin and of a limited number of products mainly from the agricultural sector. Except for imports from Rhodesia, practically all imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restric- tion. Most imports from Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Ruman ia are formally liberalized, although still subject to license. Twenty-two commodities are subject to quantitative restriction when originating in Japan. Imports from non-EEC countries of most prod- ucts covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC ( inc lud ing cereals, rice, pork, eggs, olive oil, dairy products, and poultry mea t) are subject to variable import levies that have replaced 302 all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non- EEC countries of beef, veal, most other oils and fats, sugar, and specified fru i ts and vegetables. Payments for imports may be made freely, pro- vided that the method of payment conforms with the general prescription of currency regulations. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Exchange for travel is provided up to the countervalue in the appropriate currency of f. 3,000 for trips lasting up to two weeks, and the entire allowance may be taken, if the traveler wishes, in Netherlands banknotes. For longer visits, exchange equivalent to f. 150 a day will be provided for fu r ther periods up to 75 days, making an additional allowance of f. 11,250 a person. A resident traveling abroad may have, in addition to the afore-mentioned amounts, the equivalent of f. 1,500 remitted to him through banking channels. Amounts in excess of these limits are granted by the Netherlands Bank unless unauthorized capital outflow seems to be involved. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely by credit- ing the appropriate nonresident account. The export of Netherlands banknotes by resi- dent travelers is subject to limitation, as men- tioned above. Nonresidents may export all unuti- lized negotiable instruments and foreign and Netherlands banknotes and coins which they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia of arms, ammunition, and petroleum products are prohibited; all other exports to Rhodesia require an export license. For exports to other countries, export licenses are required only for a few commodities, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agricultural prod- ucts. The surrender of export proceeds is not obliga- tory, but any surrender that is made must be at the official rate. The collection of export proceeds through an authorized bank is obligatory. A license may be obtained to hold a foreign currency account ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution with a bank abroad, to which account export pro- ceeds may be credited. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be col- lected through an authorized bank but need not be surrendered and may instead be credited to for- eign currency accounts. A license may be obtained to hold a foreign currency account with a bank abroad, to which account proceeds f rom invisibles may be credited. For incoming exchange exceed- ing f. 500 derived from current invisibles, the recipient must indicate to an authorized bank the nature of the underlying transaction, as well as the amount and currency received. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands unlimited amounts in Netherlands banknotes, foreign banknotes, and negotiable instruments. These may be sold only to an authorized bank, to an authorized exchange office, or, in the case of foreign banknotes, to an authorized depository, or they may be used to pay tourist expenses in the Netherlands. Residents are obliged to bring back to the Netherlands any unutilized portion of the banknotes and coins that they were entitled to take with them on their outward journey; there is no limitation on the amount in Netherlands or foreign banknotes and coins that they may bring in. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers and the sh if t ing of foreign-owned capital within the Nether- lands from one asset to another are subject to con- trol, but general licenses are granted for most types of capital transaction. Borrowing and lending abroad by residents (with the exception of certain bank ing operations) are restricted for reasons of capital market policy and, as far as borrowing is concerned, to control the contracting of foreign debt by local authorities, or for reasons of mone- tary policy. Capital issues in the Netherlands on behalf of nonresidents are restricted. Bond issues denomi- nated in guilders are individually licensed by the Netherlands Bank w i th in global limits that are established annually in accordance with the pros- pects for the domestic capital market and the bal- ance of payments; permission is only given in years when there is simultaneously a national savings NETHERLANDS surplus and an over-all balance of payments sur- plus. New capital investments in the Netherlands by nonresidents are in general permittted; inward direct investment is freely permitted. Permission is granted freely for the transfer abroad of the proceeds from the sale or liquidation of invest- ments in industrial enterprises established in the Netherlands. Local borrowing by nonresident- controlled companies is not normally permitted to exceed the sum of imported share capital, plowed- back profits, and foreign long-term loans. Direct investment abroad by residents is authorized on application, provided that no capital flight seems to be involved. Transactions between residents and nonresi- dents in domestic and foreign securities take place at official market rates and, with minor exceptions, are unrestricted. The foreign currency proceeds f rom securities sold abroad by residents must be deposited with an authorized bank or securities broker in the Netherlands and may be sold or retained. The proceeds of securities sold in the Netherlands by nonresidents are transferable in any convertible currency, irrespective of the sell- er's country of domicile or residence. Nonresidents may have their securities, Netherlands or foreign, exported to them, except securities held in W-deposits (see footnote 2 ). Residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Emigrants may avail themselves of the same facilities as travelers (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above), i.e., export up to f. 14,250 for each person. Emigrants acquire the status of nonresidents upon leaving the Netherlands, pro- vided that they have declared their intention to settle abroad for more than three years; they may then have remitted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries may be made freely in respect of inheritances from estates being distributed in the Netherlands. Gold Authorized banks and other residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Nether- lands. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Netherlands Bank; such licenses are not normally 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports and exports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quanti- ties of gold, such as watches, require import licenses issued by delegated offices of the CDIU; such licenses are issued freely. Changes during 1967 January 1. Benelux trade agreements with Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Rumania went into effect, which provided for the formal liberalization of a substantial proportion of imports originating in each of these countries. Pre- viously, most import liberalization applied by the Netherlands vis-a-vis these countries was accorded unilaterally. May 18. Imports of certain cotton textiles originating in Hong Kong were restricted. June 9. Imports of certain ju te products from all sources required a specific license; these imports, however, were not restricted. June 23. Two general licenses were issued allowing residents to lend to and borrow from nonresidents up to f. 100,000 (previously f. 10,000) to or from the same nonresident in a calendar year. The permission to lend was limited to loans to nonbanks. July 18. The import restrictions imposed on May 18 on specified Hong Kong textiles were abolished, following a Hong Kong undertaking to restrain exports to the Benelux market. July 20. Imports from all sources of certain vegetable oils, margarine, and certain other oils and fats were freed from quantitative restrictions. August 3. Balances and securities designated as W-accounts and W-deposits and belonging to nonresidents in Rumania could be transferred to Convertible Guilder Accounts and to free deposits. September 5. Imports from all sources of cane and beet sugar were freed from quantitative restric- tions. September 20. A general license permitted registered resident transit traders to make pay- ments for goods purchased in Indonesia for tran- 304 sit sales partially or entirely in convertible currency or in guilders to the credit of a Convertible Guilder Account, when Indonesian banks required pay- ment into a BE Account, an ADO Account, or a DP Account in the name of an Indonesian bank. October 12. Nonbank residents were upon application permitted to hold foreign currency balances in their own names with banks abroad. October 27. Authorized banks could freely buy from and sell to other authorized banks and other residents any amount in any foreign currency, spot or forward, without limitation as to the period of delivery. Authorized banks could also freely accept as time deposits any funds held by residents in foreign currency accounts at home or abroad. Previously, the maximum delivery period covered by a general license for forward purchases and sales of foreign currency was 12 months, forward purchases of foreign currency were required to be related to a permitted underlying transaction, any exchange profits on forward deals resulting from a change in the parity of the guilder had to be surrendered, and residents other than banks were not free to purchase foreign currency spot unless the transaction was covered by a general or specific license. October 28. Imports of additional textiles from all sources required a specific license; imports were not restricted. December 4. Authorized banks could freely buy from and sell to any nonresident any foreign currency, whether spot or forward; previously, a general license limited the delivery period on for- ward deals to 12 months. December 4. Authorized banks could freely invest their foreign currency balances in foreign money market paper or place them on deposit with foreign banks; previously, such deposits were limited to a 12-month period. December 4. Authorized banks could freely grant credit to nonresident banks; previously, such credit was limited to a 12-month period. December 4. Authorized banks could freely accept foreign currency or guilder deposits from nonresidents; previously, both types of deposit were limited to a 12-month period. The banks were also freely permitted to issue transferable ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution certificates of deposit in the currency concerned against foreign currency deposits obtained from nonresidents, and to deal in these certificates with other authorized banks and with nonresidents. December 4. Any resident could accept pay- ment in an inconvertible currency from any non- resident in respect of claims that, under the ruling prescription of currency, should be collected in a convertible currency, provided that these monies were credited to an account denominated in the currency received and held in the name of the Netherlands Bank or of an authorized bank. NETHERLANDS 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.471230 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Antilles Guilder or Ant. f. 1.88585 = US$1. Exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at Ant. f. 1.87 buying, and Ant. f. 1.89 sell- ing, per US$1, plus a tax of Ant. f. 0.015 per US$1 on sales of exchange, mak ing the effective selling rate for the U.S. dollar Ant. f. 1.905 per US$1. The selling rates for other currencies (mainly Netherlands guilders and pounds sterling) are set from time to time on the basis of the rates for the U.S. dollar in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. The commercial banks have authority to provide for- eign exchange for practically all current transac- tions. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Neth- erlands Antilles guilders. For statistical purposes, all payments made by the authorized banks in foreign exchange must be reported to the exchange control. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required only for imports of cer- tain luxu ry goods. These licenses must be obtained f rom the Foreign Exchange Control Board and are, as a rule, valid for three months, although in some cases they may be extended for a fu r ther three months. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments related to foreign trade, current pay- ments on account of services and short-term bank- ing and credit facilities, and remittances for fam i ly maintenance, medical care, education, etc., may be made free ly through the authorized banks. For paymen ts representing interest on loans or net income from other investments, and for amor- 306 tization of loans or depreciation of direct invest- ments, licenses are granted on application, subject to verification of the facts. Nonresidents may take with them on departure foreign currency which they brought in on arrival. The export of Netherlands Antilles banknotes is limited to Ant. f. 100 a person, or Ant. f. 200 a person for those leaving by a ship of the Royal Dutch Steamship Company. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are usually granted. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank, with the exception of export proceeds received by industrial companies with nonresident status. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring with them checks or letters of credit in Netherlands Antilles currency, and checks, letters of credit, or notes in foreign cur- rency, in unlimited amounts. Each traveler may also bring in Ant. f. 100 in Netherlands Antilles banknotes, or Ant. f. 200 when arriving by a ship of the Royal Dutch Steamship Company. Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles requires a license, which is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interests of the islands. New industrial companies relying pr imar i ly on exports may be granted non- resident status, which confers on the company concerned fu ll exemption f rom exchange control except in its transactions with residents of the Netherlands Antilles. Such exemption may also be granted to investment companies. Life insurance contracts between residents and foreign insurance companies for a minimum term of ten years are licensed freely up to an amount which is fixed annua l ly, depending on the foreign exchange position (in 1967, such contracts were permitted up to US$25,000 a person). Investment by residents in real estate situated abroad or in foreign securities (i.e., securities ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution issued outside the Netherlands Antilles or payable or optionally payable in a currency of a country other than the Netherlands Antilles) requires a license. Investments by individual residents in officially quoted foreign securities (other than shares in mutual funds) are licensed freely up to amounts fixed annually, depending on the foreign exchange position (in 1967, these investments were permitted up to US$3,000 a person). In considering applications by other residents for such investments, the Foreign Exchange Control Board takes into account the merits of each case and, in particular, the limited opportunity for domestic investment. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles for numismatic and NETHERLANDS ANTILLES investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the mone- tary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold • in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by author- ized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1967 No significant changes took place during 1967. 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.99531 gram of fine gold per New Zealand dollar or $NZ 1 = US$1.12. Official rates are fixed for transactions in sterling (tele- graphic t rans fe rs ): $NZ 213.67 buying, and $NZ 214.92 selling, per <£ stg. 100. Except for the Australian dollar, the rates for spot trans- actions in other currencies quoted by the New Zealand trading (commercial) banks are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1967 was US$1.1288 buying, and US$ 1.1166 selling, per $NZ 1. The trading banks are also permitted to con- clude with their customers forward exchange trans- actions for up to six months to cover genuine trade transactions. These forward transactions are at freely determined rates, except that rates for forward sterling are the relative spot rates adjusted by Vio of 1 per cent a month for the period of the contract. Cover for longer periods may be arranged in special cases if approved by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand under powers delegated to its Governor by the Minister of Finance. The Reserve Bank in turn has given discretionary authority to the trading banks in New Zealand to approve applications for certain remittances of funds overseas. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the Customs Department. Prescription of Currency New Zealand is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements generally similar to those in force in other parts of the Sterling Area. Payments to and from other parts of the Sterling Area may generally be made in any Sterling Area currency except New Zealand dollars; however, the proceeds of exports to the Sterling Area may be received in sterling, in any other currency (except New Zealand cur- rency) that is freely exchangeable for sterling, or in New Zealand currency from an account with a bank in New Zealand of a bank domiciled in any country other than New Zealand or Rhodesia. 308 Authorized payments to countries outside the Ster- ling Area except Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the United Kingdom or in any non-Sterling Area currency, and the proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in a currency of any country outside the Sterling Area which is freely exchangeable for sterling in an External Account, or in New Zealand currency from an account with a bank in New Zealand of a bank domiciled in any country outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia. The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with countries in the currency area of the overseas bank concerned. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank supervises certain specified accounts in New Zealand of residents of other countries ("controlled accounts"). The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries in the same currency areas. Banks in other parts of the Sterling Area generally do not maintain accounts in New Zealand, and their remittances to and from New Zealand are made through the London offices of banks in New Zealand. imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports are controlled through an Annual Import Licensing Schedule, which groups imports into different categories to which various import procedures are applied. About one third of all imports is exempt from licensing. The import categories included in the Schedule for July 1, 1967-June 30, 1968, as revised, are as follows: Category "E" (exempt) includes petro- leum, lubricating oils, certain other raw materials, green coffee, cocoa beans, jute, many textiles, cer- tain equipment, and printed books which may be imported without license. In addition, certain imports of Australian origin are exempt from licensing, irrespective of the licensing category to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution which they belong.1 A "Basic" category com- prises items for which licenses are granted by reference to licenses issued or actual imports in a previous licensing period; it includes all items of Category "A," which was applied during a previ- ous licensing period but has been suspended. Category "C" licenses are granted on an individual basis on such criteria as essentiality, availability, and price; for some "C" items, however, an initial allocation based on a previous period is provided, while applications for fu r ther licenses are con- sidered individually. Category "D" includes items of a type also produced in New Zealand; for which licenses are issued only in exceptional cir- cumstances. In addition, licenses for small or "token" amounts are issued, to the extent of 100 per cent of previous licenses for the same goods, for "D" items and for certain approved classes of goods, imports of which are generally not permitted under the Schedule. All licenses issued may be used for imports f rom any source at the applicant's discretion, with the exception that certain goods may not be imported from Rhodesia. Under a special arrangement in force since 1951, private individuals owning certain overseas funds or securities held prior to June 16, 1966 (which date has been brought forward on sev- eral occasions) are permitted to import under "no-remittance import licenses" goods for their own personal use for which licenses are normally given, and also goods of minor value in "D" cate- gories. Motorcars are the principal import under this arrangement; applicants for "no-remittance import licenses" for motorcars are required to pro- duce evidence that an amount in qualifying funds equal to 15 per cent of the qualifying funds needed for the license has been repatriated to New Zealand through the banking system. Under an extension of this arrangement, 80 per cent of such overseas funds or securities held overseas prior to June 16, 1966 by private individuals and business concerns may, on application, be used to finance commer- cial imports of motorcars, commercial vehicles, and other items on the Import Licensing Schedule, subject to the condition that the remaining 20 per cent of the applicant's funds that qua l ify under the scheme be repatriated through the bank ing system. 1 Under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Ag reement t h at came i n to force on J a n u a ry 1, 1966. NEW ZEALAND A degree of flexibility in the application of the Licensing Schedule is achieved through the use of Group Schemes (for Industry, Interchangeability, and Aggregation Groups) that enable importers to transfer individual entitlements to a composite license, instead of holding licenses for separate items, and to import, up to the total amount, any item or combination of items in the group. Payments for Invisibles The commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for payments up to established limits for many categories of invisibles, subject in appropri- ate cases to the submission of justifying docu- ments. Payments beyond the established limits, and for categories not included in the commercial banks' permitted list, require the specific approval of the Reserve Bank; applications must be sup- ported, where appropriate, by jus t ify ing docu- ments. For nonbusiness travel to any part of the world, there are travel allowances of up to $NZ 400 for each adult in any period of 12 months (the allowance being calculated on the basis of $NZ 14 a day for the first 14 days spent on land and $NZ 12 a day thereaf ter) and of up to $NZ 280 for each child under 12 years of age (calculated on the basis of $NZ 9.80 a day for the first 14 days spent on land and $NZ 8.40 a day the rea f te r ). An additional amount of up to $NZ 1,000 ($NZ 700 for children) in foreign exchange is granted to persons who have not traveled abroad in the preceding three years. Larger amounts of exchange for business and other similar travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is normally approved, subject to formal authentication. This also applies to most contractual obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business, but each remittance requires approval and new com- mitments such as royalty agreements with overseas licensors require the prior consent of the Reserve Bank. Allocations for remittances on account of maintenance and/or gifts are made on a yearly basis without discrimination. Remittances by recognized New Zealand religious and charitable organizations or individuals operating as members of such an organization are not subject to any 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND limitation. Allocations to individuals for religious and charitable remittances, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 100 a remittor. Travelers may take with them up to $NZ 10 in New Zealand currency, regardless of destina- tion. Banknotes taken out may not be in denomi- nations larger than $NZ 1. Up to $NZ 4 of the permitted total may be in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods to Rhodesia are pro- hibited. With minor exceptions, all exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department and ensure that the net export pro- ceeds will be surrendered to a trading bank in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). General export licenses valid until December 31, 1972 are issued to regular exporters. Payments for exports must be received within six months from the date of shipment, with the exception that payment for goods consigned to Rhodesia must be received prior to the date of exportation. Under an export bonus scheme, manufacturers submitting evidence of exportation may receive an additional import license to the same value as the imported raw material or components incorpo- rated in the exported goods, subject to certain conditions being me t; goods imported against the bonus license may be used for the manufac ture of goods for the home market or for export. Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas resi- dents by New Zealand residents (including corpo- rate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand) is paid in the fo rm of foreign assets,2 such assets or their foreign currency proceeds must be sold to the New Zealand banking system; interest and divi- dends earned overseas are excluded from this 2 The kinds of remunera t ion that are involved are (1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the c red i t ing of any sum in any account at any bank or w i th any person; ( 3) the acqu is i t ion or provision of any secur- ities, or any real or personal property, or of any right the re to or interest the re in (w h e t h er ac tual or con t ing en t ); and (4) any bene f i t, whe ther by way of do ing work or the pe r fo rmance of services, or otherwise, under any con t rac t, ag reemen t, scheme, or transac t ion of any k ind (w h e t h er or not it is en fo rceab le or in tended to be en fo rceab le by legal proceedings). 310 surrender requirement. If the remuneration is in a form other than foreign currency or a balance with an overseas bank, it must be converted into foreign currency before the surrender takes place. The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles such as interest and dividends is free of control except for non-sterling currencies which, unless sold to a New Zealand bank, may not be disposed of without the approval of the Reserve Bank, but such income is not eligible for sale in exchange for New Zealand currency, except that the foreign currency proceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign banknotes and coins and up to $NZ 10 in local currency, of which $NZ 4 may be in coins. In all other cases, the importation of New Zealand currency is prohibited except with the consent of the Reserve Bank. Capital With the exception of certain capital issues out- side New Zealand and certain overseas borrowings by corporate bodies, there is no restriction on capital receipts. However, to be eligible for repatriation, capital must have been initially trans- ferred to New Zealand through normal banking channels or in some other way approved by the authorities, e.g., as imports of plant or machinery. Capital so transferred, including capital gains and capitalized profits, may be repatriated, after the formal approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. Overseas companies seeking to com- mence business in New Zealand require the approval of the Minister of Finance. Capital issues outside New Zealand by compa- nies incorporated in New Zealand require the approval of the Minister of Finance if they exceed $NZ 20,000 in any 12-month period; overseas borrowing by such companies also requires prior approval. New Zealand subsidiaries and branches of overseas companies must obtain the consent of the Minister of Finance if they wish to borrow in New Zealand more than $NZ 20,000 in any 12-month period; the principal exception to this requirement is for bank credit to cover normal day-to-day needs.3 Nonresident persons or compa- 3 On J a n u a ry 26, 1968, the $NZ 20,000 exemption f rom cap i tal issues control was w i thd rawn. Henceforth, all borrow ing in New Zealand by overseas compan ies and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution nies desiring to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to register any offer made for such shares whenever the invest- ment would result in the control by the offerer of 25 per cent or more of the New Zealand company's capital. Within two weeks of registra- tion the Minister of Finance must notify the offerer as to whether or not the offer is to be con- sidered further. If further consideration is to be given, the Minister must give a final decision within six weeks of the date of registration. Emigrants to countries in the Sterling Area and repatriates returning to countries outside the Ster- ling Area may upon designation as nonresidents transfer the equivalent of $NZ 12,000 for each fam i ly to their new country of residence. Any remaining assets in New Zealand are transferable in equal annual installments over the next four calendar years; in practice, no installment is reduced below $NZ 10,000. Emigrants to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area may upon designa- tion as nonresidents transfer the equivalent of $NZ 12,000 for each family to their new country of residence. Any remaining assets in New Zealand may be transferred after four years. Initial remittances up to $NZ 2,000 on account of legacies from the estate of a New Zealand resi- dent are approved; any balance is transferable in equal annual installments over the next four cal- endar years. In practice, no installment is reduced below $NZ 2,000. All transactions in non-Sterling Area securities, whether with nonresidents or between residents, require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. A New Zealand resident owning overseas Sterling Area securities is free to sell them to residents of the overseas Sterling Area (New Zealand being excluded in this context) for overseas Sterling Area currency, which may be reinvested in other overseas Sterling Area securities, surrendered, or, if the security sold is not eligible for sale for New Zealand currency, retained at the disposal of the New Zealand resident. With limited exceptions, sales of overseas Sterling Area securities by one New Zealand resident to another may be made only in exchange for other overseas Sterling Area a ll bo r row ing abroad by New Zealand compan ies required the consent of the M in is ter of Finance. NEW ZEALAND securities or for overseas Sterling Area currencies. Overseas Sterling Area securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for New Zealand currency are those of overseas Sterling Area countries which were registered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for which scrip or other documents evidencing title were issued; the purchaser must lodge the share scrip with an authorized deposi- tory. These securities may also be sold for over- seas Sterling Area currency, in which case the proceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zealand through the banking system or reinvested in overseas Sterling Area securities within one month. The authorities do not normally make exchange available to private persons or firms for the purchase of overseas Sterling Area securities or other foreign securities. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand for numismatic purposes, and since the revocation in 1954 of the Gold Acquisition Notice 1948 it is no longer necessary to offer gold to the Reserve Bank, and sales within New Zealand do not require Reserve Bank approval. However, imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Customs Department; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are licensed restrictively. Changes during 1967 February 10. The max imum daily allowance for private nonbusiness travel to any part of the world was reduced, for travel beyond 14 days, from <£NZ 6 to <£NZ 5 a day, and the annual maximum was reduced from <£NZ 600 for each adult to <£NZ 200, except that persons who had not been granted an overseas travel allowance in the preceding three years were allowed a maxi- mum of <£NZ 600 (formerly five years and <£NZ 1,000). February 11. Applicants for "no-remittance import licenses" for motorcars and other goods intended for private use were required to produce evidence that an amount equal to 15 per cent of 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND the qualifying funds needed for the license had been repatriated to New Zealand through the banking system. The amount repatriated must also be from qualifying funds. From July 1, 1968 the proportion to be repatriated is to be increased to 30 per cent for both private and commercial imports. March 25. Restrictions were introduced on emigrants' transfers to Sterling Area countries, Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, and those on remittances of legacies to any country were tight- ened. For emigrants' transfers, an initial allowance of <£NZ 5,000 for each fam i ly was established, while any remaining assets would be transferable in equal annual installments over four years. For remittances in respect of legacies from the estate of a New Zealand resident, an initial allowance of <£NZ 1,000 was set, with any balance transferable in equal annual installments over four years. March 30. The import licensing schedule for the year ending June 1968 was announced. Allo- cations for controlled imports were generally reduced by 20 per cent, although provision was made for special consideration to be given to certain industrial imports. No exempt items were brought under control again. April 4. The tax rebate on manufactured exports was increased from 15 per cent to 20 per cent for exports shipped during 1967. April 4. A major extension was announced of the export bonus scheme under which manu- facturers submitting evidence of exportation could receive additional import licenses for raw materials or components used in the manufac ture of exports. May 4. Export incentives were strengthened with an announcement extending existing tax deductions for export market development and export sales increases to March 1969 and increas- ing the tax deduction rate. July 10. A new currency unit, the New Zealand dollar, replaced the New Zealand pound. The new unit was equivalent to 10 shillings of the previous currency. A par value of $NZ 1 = US$1.39045 became effective the same day. The move did not involve any appreciation or depreciation. August 1. A new scheme for the preferential allocation of credit to exporters was announced. September 19. It was announced that the 20 per cent tax rebate on manufactured exports would be continued until the fiscal year ending March 1969. September 20. Exporters of lamb were required to ship at least 12 per cent of their annual exports to markets outside the United Kingdom; previ- ously, the requirement was 10 per cent. November 21. The par value was changed from $NZ 1 = US$1.39045 to $NZ 1 = US$1.12. November 21. It was announced that the 20 per cent tax deduction on manufactured exports and the tax concessions for tourist promotion would be abolished. November 21. The overseas travel allowance was increased by $NZ 2 a day. The annual max imum allowance for travelers who have not used travel funds in the preceding three years was increased to $NZ 1,400 from $NZ 1,200. The initial emigrants' allowance was increased from $NZ 10,000 to $NZ 12,000. December 15. Additional exemptions from import licensing were announced. These affected over 30 classes of goods, including certain food- s tuffs and vegetable oils, specified chemicals and oils, and some types of manufactured articles of metal. December 19. It was announced that the tax incentives for the development of export markets as well as the 20 per cent tax rebate on manu- factured exports would be continued until March 31, 1968; the 20 per cent rebate would then be reduced to 15 per cent, while the other tax incentives would be terminated. 312 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.126953 gram of fine gold per Nicaraguan Cordoba or C$7.00 = US$1. The Central Bank deals with the commercial banks at C$7.00 per US$1, buying and selling, and sells exchange to the Government at C$7.0525 per US$1. All exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at the official rates of C$7.00 buying, and C$7.0525 selling, per US$1. The sale of foreign exchange by commercial banks to the public is subject to a stamp tax of % of 1 per cent, which results in an effective selling rate of C$7.0875 per US$1. No tax or commission is charged on the buying rate. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom July 20, 1964. Administration of Control The control system is administered by the Cen- tral Bank of Nicaragua, which by law has the sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange. This authority has been delegated to the commercial banks, and the Central Bank deals with the public only to the extent that it accepts deposits in foreign currency, and for purposes of monetary control. Certain agencies are also authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange, but they may sell exchange only for payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for classifying imports and determining any advance deposits required; no advance deposit requirements are in force at present. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily convertible into U.S. dollars in inter- national markets. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicara- guan cordobas through the Camara de Compensa- tion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their coun- tries. Payments to Mexico may also be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the clearing- house. The Central Bank does not accept bank- notes of Costa Rica, El Salvador, and Guatemala for compensation through the clearinghouse in excess of the following amounts a month: 265,000 Costa Rican colones, 125,000 Guatemalan quet- zales, and 200,000 Salvadoran colones. Imports and Import Payments All importers are required to be registered. There are two categories of registered importers: those who are permitted to import any kind of merchandise and those who may import only for their own industrial needs. Imports from all coun- tries, including the other Central American coun- tries, must be consigned to persons or firms hold- ing a commercial license from the Ministry of Economy. Import licenses are not required, but import transactions must be registered with the Central Bank by means of import declarations; when payment is not being made on sight of docu- ments, an application for registration of the order must be submitted to the Central Bank. Imports of certain types of footwear are prohibited, except footwear manufactured in countries signatory to the General Treaty for Central American Eco- nomic Integration. Payments for imports must be made with exchange purchased from banks.1 Payments are usually made by sight drafts. Letters of credit are mostly confined to imports from Japan. Cen- tral Bank approval is not required to open an import letter of credit. If payment is made by letter of credit, a 30 per cent margin deposit is required. The banks are not permitted to sell exchange for import payments in advance of the arrival of the documents. The Central Bank may authorize deferred payment or payment with funds derived from properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are capital goods intended for development or pro- duction or for basic works complementary to However, by v i r tue of Decree No. 1-L (effec t ive March 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds of bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by-products exported th rough the ports of the region of El Cabo and the depa r tment of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for commodities not produced in Nicaragua wh ich they themselves import for the exclusive use of or con- sump t ion by the inhab i tan ts of those areas. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA production; such permission is at present limited mainly to industrial and agricultural machinery. Imports are not released from customs unless evi- dence is submitted either that payment has been made through a bank (constancia) or that the Central Bank has approved importation on credit terms; this requirement does not apply to duty- free imports from member countries of the Central American Common Market. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not subject to license and may be made freely. Persons purchasing for- eign currency to make payments for invisibles are required, for statistical purposes, to complete a declaration specifying the purpose for which the foreign currency obtained will be used. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, but a declara- tion to the customs authorities must be completed for statistical purposes. The exchange proceeds of exports do not have to be surrendered; how- ever, they may not be used to pay for imports (exchange for which must be purchased f rom a bank, with the exception noted in footnote 1). For certain agricultural exports (live cattle, beans, rice, corn, and cottonseed), the Ministry of Economy can fix m in imum export prices or can temporarily prohibit their export in order to avoid domestic shortages. Proceeds from Invisibles The surrender of foreign exchange derived f rom invisibles is not required. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Capital Remittances on account of foreign capital and capital transfers by residents and nonresidents may be made freely under the general provisions of the Exchange Law of March 1, 1963 or under the Law on Foreign Investments of February 26, 1955 (effective March 11, 1955). Under the 1955 law, foreign investments approved by the Central Bank and registered are guaranteed the following privileges: repatriation of the registered capital; transfer of earnings, profits, or interest on the capi- tal; and re-exportation of goods imported for 314 investment. Commercial banks require the prior approval of the Central Bank for all borrowing abroad. Gold Residents may freely and without license pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nicara- gua. Imports and exports of gold require prior government authorization. Imports of gold jew- elry need not be registered with the Central Bank but do require an import license. Changes during 1967 March 14. Commercial banks were reminded that they required the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank for all borrowing abroad. April 1. All import letters of credit were required to be fu l ly prepaid. Previously, the banks had normally prescribed a 25 per cent margin deposit. April 1. The commercial bank commission on sales of foreign exchange for imports for which the bank does not handle the documents was raised from l/4 per cent to 1 per cent, i.e., the commission previously payable only when the bank was arranging collection. April 1. The commercial banks were not nor- mally permitted to sell foreign exchange to import- ers to pay for imports in advance of the arrival of the documents (giro por adelantado). All advance payments for imports required Central Bank approval, which was only granted for such goods as machinery. May 12. The mandatory advance deposit on import letters of credit was reduced from 100 per cent to 30 per cent. May 12. The Central Bank directed that the banking commission on import collections, irre- spective of the method of payment, be established at 1 per cent on those up to the equivalent of US$5,000, at % per cent on those over US$5,000 and up to US$10,000, and at l/2 per cent on those in excess of US$10,000. August 15. All goods entering Nicaragua from other Central American countries had to be con- signed to persons or firms holding a commercial Ifcense f rom the Ministry of Economy that per- mitted them to receive the goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER Exchange System No par value for the currency of Niger has been established with the Fund. The unit of cur- rency is the CFA Franc, which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfri- que de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Forward exchange transactions, which are permitted in any currency and for any period, take place at freely negotiated rates. The domestic negotiation of the currencies of Guinea and Mali is prohibited; otherwise, there are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings, whether spot or forward, by residents or nonresi- dents, whether banks or nonbanks. With the exception noted below, there are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements, although certain controls are applied to borrowing abroad, to issues and sales of foreign securities in Niger, and to inward and outward direct investment (see section on Capital, below). Settlements with Mali must be made through a special account. In practice, set- tlements with countries outside the French Franc Area are usually made through correspondent banks in France, either in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs; settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are usually made in cur- rencies of that Area, in practice mainly in French francs. The following is applicable to payments and transactions between Niger and all foreign coun- tries 2 except Mali. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, which may be held in Niger 1 The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfr ique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the com- mon cu r rency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mau r i tan ia, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Foreign coun tr ies are defined as all countries other t h an N ige r. or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in CFA francs or in any foreign currency may be held in Niger by any nonresident. Balances on nonresident accounts may be transferred freely to any type of resident-held or nonresident-held account and used for any payment in Niger or abroad, including the purchase of any foreign cur- rency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment, includ- ing any amount of interest. There are no restric- tions on physical imports or exports of foreign or domestic securities. Imports and exports of gold are controlled and restricted; these require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Niger's control measures affecting inward and outward direct investment and borrowing abroad do not apply to relations with (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; ( 2) the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), Gabon, and the Malagasy Republic), provided that they accord Niger reciprocity in respect of freedom of pay- ments and transfers.3 Administration of Control The External Finance Division in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing abroad, the issu- ing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Niger, and inward and outward direct investment. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the postal administration, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All registered banks in Niger are per- mitted to carry out foreign exchange transac- tions. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Economic A f fa i rs in the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs, Commerce, and Industry, except those for gold, which are granted 3 Early in 1968, Mali also established an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury and liberalized its exchange control. 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER by the Ministry of Finance. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and approved by the Directorate of Economic Affa irs. Imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Por- tugal, Rhodesia, or South Africa are prohibited. The import from any source of wheat flour, cement, and plastic goods requires a license.4 Imports of sugar are normally restricted to mem- ber countries of the Common Organization of African and Malagasy States, and imports of matches are made mainly from countries of the West Afr ican Customs Union, although the EEC countries, including France, have the benefit of a special quota. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area of all goods other than wheat flour, sugar, cement, matches, and plastic goods may be made freely without a license. Imports of virtually all goods from EEC countries, many goods from other former OEEC countries, and a smaller number of items from the United States and Canada are liberalized. Other imports f rom countries outside the French Franc Area are per- mitted as follows. Nonliberalized imports from EEC countries other than France are permitted up to annual quotas, which are being increased in accordance with the Convention of Association with the EEC. Imports of nonliberalized goods from other countries outside the French Franc Area are made in accordance with an annual pro- gram that is determined each year by the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs, Commerce, and Industry; the program generally reflects the requirements indi- cated by importers, but it contains a ceiling for passenger cars. For certain commodities ( ju te bags, printed cotton fabrics, and unprinted cot- ton fabrics) m in imum quantities have been estab- lished that must be imported from France ("floor system"). Both the over-all amount of the pro- gram and the ceilings and floors are established in mutual agreement with a joint French-Niger Committee. Goods not subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction may be imported on an import certifi- cate, i.e., a declaration made out by the importer and approved by the Directorate of Economic Affa irs. 4 On March 5, 1968, Arrete No. 66 /MF ex tended th is requ irement to rice of any origin. 316 Payments for imports from Mali must be made through a special account. Payments for imports from all other countries may be made freely, at any time, and without any formality. Com- modity fu tures may be dealt in freely in Niger or abroad. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license; payments to Mali, how- ever, must be made through a special account. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in domestic and foreign banknotes and coins. However, persons normally resident in Niger, when traveling to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union, must declare to the customs authorities at the point of exit the amount of BCEAO banknotes that they are carrying if this amount exceeds CFAF 150,000. Travelers also may freely take out up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomina- tion or face value. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. With the exception of sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and cer- tain imported commodities, all of which require a license, exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Exports to all other countries of most domestic products and all imported commodities require a license. With the exception of exports to Mali, exports are free of exchange controls. The repatriation and surrender of export proceeds is not required. Exporters may grant credit for any period and are free to sell forward their anticipated export pro- ceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Except in relations with Guinea and Mali, there are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents and the proceeds from invisibles need not be sur- rendered. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes and coins other than Guinean and Malian banknotes or coins, whose import is prohibited. Travelers may also bring in up to ten ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Capital Transfers to Mali must be made through a spe- cial account but are not restricted. With this exception, the following obtains. Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license, through banks or any other channel. Foreign domestic securities of all types may be physically imported or exported freely, whether through the inter- mediary of a bank or not, and transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic and foreign real estate (except when form ing part of a direct investment) are unrestricted. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repa- triation and may (except when form ing part of a direct inves tmen t) be freely disposed of. Certain controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward direct invest- ment, and over the issuing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Niger, but these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Niger, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in Niger 5 and Niger direct investments abroad,6 must be declared to the Minister of Finance when they are being made, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed prof- its. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects sub- mitted to him. The fu ll or partial liquidation of 5 Including those made by compan ies in N iger t h at are directly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in N iger of foreign companies. 6 Including those made through the in t e rm ed i a ry of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or sub s id ia r ies abroad of companies in Niger. NIGER either type of direct investment also requires decla- ration. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Niger invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Niger requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance. Exempt f rom authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Niger Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Niger has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Niger, or by branches or subsidiaries in Niger of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authori- zation: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; ( 2) loans directly connected with the ren- dering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of com- mercial transactions either between Niger and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The con- tracting of loans referred to under ( 4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be notified to the Minister of Finance within 20 days, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad is not subject to authorization or declaration. Banks in Niger may freely grant overdrafts on nonresident accounts for any period. The Investment Code of July 12, 1961 provides for preferential status that may be granted to new 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER enterprises in industry, agriculture, real estate, and, in some cases, commerce, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Three preferential regimes are established: A, B, and C. The most liberal benefits are offered by Regime C, which is applicable to enterprises or industries of particular importance for the imple- mentation of Niger's economic and social develop- ment plan. This regime is characterized by the signing of a founding agreement (convention d'etablissement) stipulating the mutual rights and obligations of the State and the enterprise. This agreement, with a validity of 10 or 20 years, pro- vides guarantees of stability with respect to legal, economic, financial, and tax matters. Regimes A and B grant many of the same benefits but for a shorter period, with a maximum of 10 years. Firms covered by the Investment Code must undertake not to repatriate within a period of 3 years the foreign capital invested in them. Gold Residents are free to hold gold in any form, at home or abroad. They are also free to acquire and dispose of gold in any fo rm in Niger. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO, (2) imports and exports of manu- factured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles), (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold arti- cles (other than coins and ba rs) whose combined weight does not exceed 500 grams, and (4) imports and exports of up to ten gold coins, irre- spective of denomination or face value. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1967 March 1. Arrete No. 3/2 required an authori- zation granted by the Directorate of Economic A f fa i rs for the import of sugar shipped from coun- tries for which import licenses were not required. Different import taxes were applied to sugar orig- inating in countries that were signatories of the Afr ican and Malagasy Sugar Agreement and to that originating in other countries. 318 April 1. Notice to Importers No. 1/67 announced the liberalization from that date of additional commodities when originating in and shipped f rom EEC countries other than France. They included wheat, beer, raw and manufactured tobacco, petroleum products, domestic refrigera- tors, insecticides, and jute fabrics. May 4. Niger signed the Protocol of Associa- tion for the establishment of a West African Eco- nomic Community. June 22. The Ministry of Finance issued two notices containing instructions to authorized banks concerning the measures that would go into effect on July 1. July 1. Law No. 67-024 of August 8, 1967 established the principle that financial relations with foreign countries were free. With minor exceptions, all existing legislation contrary to this principle was revoked, notably Law No. 62-31 of September 18, 1962 on exchange control. Previ- ously, current and capital payments to all French Franc Area countries already were unrestricted; they were also free of control, as were inward transfers originating in French Franc Area coun- tries (with the single exception that transfers to Mali had to be made through a special account). The law also provided for the statistical registra- tion of all inward and outward payments. Normally, the repatriation and surrender of claims, earnings, and proceeds accruing abroad would no longer be required. Import and export regulations were not affected, although certain exchange control formalities were abolished; these included the requirements that import licenses and import certificates be domiciled with an authorized bank, and that exporters sign a foreign exchange commitment in respect of all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. July 1. Decree No. 67-161/MF of Novem- ber 30, 1967 established the principal rules for the application of Law No. 67-024. The decree defined the concept of "foreign countries" and indicated the types of capital transactions with foreign countries that would be subject either to declara- tion or prior approval. It also provided that the import and export of gold, with certain exceptions, required prior approval by the Minister of Finance and that the import and export of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO were free, with the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution proviso that residents traveling to countries outside the West African Monetary Union must declare to the customs any amount in BCEAO notes car- ried if that amount exceeded CFAF 250,000 (amended to read CFAF 150,000 by Decree No. 68-015/MF of January 17, 1968). The import and negotiation in Niger remained pro- hibited of banknotes and coins that were legal tender in Guinea or Mali. The Minister of Finance would issue instructions for the operation of any payments agreements concluded or to be con- cluded with foreign countries. July 1. Decree No. 67-160/MF of Novem- ber 30, 1967 created a Balance of Payments Com- mittee charged with periodically compiling a national balance of payments. For this purpose, all banks and financial institutions as well as the postal administration were required to notify the BCEAO of all payments between Niger and for- eign countries, all transactions in foreign currency, all transactions in CFA francs that affected finan- cial relations with foreign countries, and all trans- actions in securities between residents and non- NIGER residents. The BCEAO was authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the postal administration, any informa- tion necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. July 1. Notice to Importers No. 2/67 abol- ished the EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) regime, under which exporters could retain a por- tion of the exchange proceeds from exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. It also terminated the domiciliation requirement for import licenses and import certificates and the requirement of an exchange commitment for exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. September 1. Arrete No. 15 prohibited the importation of household soap. December 30. Notice to Importers No. 3/67 announced that, with the exception of sugar and plastic materials, imports of all commodities origi- nating in and shipped from EEC countries other than France would be liberalized from January 1, 1968. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Nigerian Pound or <£N 1 = US$2.80. The Cen- tral Bank of Nigeria quotes rates at which it is prepared to deal in sterling and U.S. dollars with authorized dealers and the public; such dealings are for approved transactions of not less than the equivalent of <£ stg. 10,000 and are on a spot basis only. The Central Bank's rates for sterling are determined by the Bank from time to time and on December 30, 1967 were £1161%6 buying, and <£116%4 selling, per <£N 100. The rates for the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of the Central Bank's prevailing rate for sterling against the Nigerian pound; on December 31, 1967 the Bank's buying and selling rates for the dollar were, respectively, US$2.801 %2 and US$2.781%2 per £N 1. The Central Bank is prepared to quote rates to authorized dealers and its customers for specific transactions on a spot basis only for the currency of any other Sterling Area territory except South Africa and South- West Africa or for any specified currency.1 For approved transactions authorized dealers may deal at market rates, spot or forward, between themselves, with authorized banks in the Sterling Area, and with customers. Authorized dealers may enter freely into contracts with residents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any foreign currency 2 except Rhodesian pounds for delivery at a fu tu re date, provided that the transaction is one that would be acceptable on a spot basis (see above) and that the transaction relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to freight charges on a specific shipment of goods, and is expressed as payable in a foreign currency. Forward contracts related to imports must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license, or beyond the date of import when the license has no expira- tion date or when no license is required. Forward contracts related to exports may cover any neces- 1 The specified cu r renc ies are Aus t r ian sch i l l ings, Bel- gian francs, Canad ian do l lars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther- lands guilders, Norweg ian k rone r, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. 2 Foreign currencies are de f ined as all cu r renc ies o ther than the N iger ian pound. 320 sary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received within six months of shipment, or within such longer period as may have been authorized. Until further notice, all export proceeds in foreign currencies 2 (except the proceeds of oil exports) are centralized with the Central Bank, which supplies the authorized banks with foreign exchange for approved payments. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for the following: the repatriation of capital and transfer of profits to any country outside Nigeria; the raising of external loans, including repayment of such loans; borrow- ing in Nigeria by companies controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria; the granting of "approved status" to nonresident investments in Nigeria; and any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank of Nigeria is the principal administrator of the exchange control. Most com- mercial banks and acceptance houses are author- ized by the Ministry of Finance to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accord- ance with instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any application that does not fall within the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank, or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the Ministry of Finance. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Trade and the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Nigeria is a member of the Sterling Area,3 but payments to Sterling Area countries are subject to the same approval requirements that are appli- cable to settlements with other foreign countries. Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in Nigerian pounds to an External Account in 3 Nigeria's de f in i t ion for exchange control purposes of the Sterling Area does not inc lude South A f r i ca or Sou th- West A f r i c a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nigeria, in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments to countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Nigerian pounds to a Scheduled Territories Account in Nigeria, or in sterling. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries except Rhodesia may be received in Nigerian pounds from an External Account or a Scheduled Territories Account, or in a specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia; most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Nigerian pounds of persons resident outside Nigeria are divided into three categories: Scheduled Territories Accounts, ma in ta ined for persons permanently resident in a foreign country w i th in the Sterling Area; Rhodesia Accounts, ma in ta ined for residents of Rhodesia; and External Accounts, ma in ta ined for residents of all other countries. Scheduled Territories Accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria, with transfers f rom other Scheduled Territories Accounts and f rom External Accounts, and, sub- ject to compliance with existing regulations, with proceeds from sales of all currencies except Nigerian pounds or Rhodesian pounds. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for transfers to other Scheduled Terri- tories Accounts and, subject to prior approval, to External Accounts, and for purchases of sterling or other Sterling Area currencies for approved purposes. All permitted paymen ts to Rhodesia must be made by crediting Rhodesia Accounts. All debits and credits to Rhodesia Accounts require prior approval by the Central Bank. External Accounts may be credited with author- ized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries other than Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts and from Scheduled Territories Accounts, and with proceeds f rom sales of foreign currencies other than Sterling Area currencies or Rhodesian pounds. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for transfers to other External Accounts and to NIGERIA Scheduled Territories Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies other than Sterling Area cur- rencies or Rhodesian pounds. Imports and Import Payments All importers must be registered. Most com- modities may be imported under open general license. However, the import of about 20 com- modities is prohibited for health, safety, moral, or religious reasons, and the import of about 20 other commodities or groups of commodities is also prohibited unless specific conditions have been complied with; these conditions are specified in the licenses authorizing such imports. All imports from Rhodesia, South Africa, and South- West Afr ica are prohibited. Individual specific import licenses are required for the following: ( 1) All imports f rom Albania, Mainland China, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, North Korea, Macao, Ruman ia, Tibet, and North Viet- Nam. (2) All imports of petroleum products, cement, yarn, enamelware, meat, flour of wheat, butter, bicycle and automobile tires, stone, sand, gravel, hessian and ju te bags and sacks, used clothing, certain types of glass,4 and products the export of which is subject to Marketing Board control (see section on Exports and Export Pro- ceeds, be low). (3) Imports of wheat and sugar f rom countries not participating in the Inter- national Wheat and Sugar Agreements. (4) Imports from the dollar area of coal and coke. (5) Imports from the Netherlands of onions not grown in a specified region. Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange for all authorized imports. Payment in advance of shipment, however, requires the approval of the Central Bank. The Central Bank sells foreign exchange in respect of import payments to author- ized dealers against formal letters of request sup- ported by approved exchange control forms and certified bills of entry and invoices. A "national reconstruction surcharge" of 5 per cent is levied on the c.i.f. value of virtually all imports. 4 On J a n u a ry 17, 1968, the import of m any add i t ional commodities required a specific license. These were ma in ly luxu ry goods and goods for which local substitutes were available. 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Payments for Invisibles Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to residents of other countries are subject to individual approval; for some cate- gories of invisibles this is granted up to specified limits by the authorized dealers. Applications for payments that cannot be approved by the author- ized dealers are forwarded to the Central Bank, which gives approval for some types of payment, provided that tax and other requirements have been satisfied. However, as mentioned above, cer- tain applications require approval from the Min- istry of Finance. Residents are entitled to a basic travel allow- ance of <£N 100 a year a person for travel outside Nigeria ( < £N 50 a year for ch i ld ren ). Foreign exchange for this purpose may be sold to residents by authorized dealers. In addition, travel agents and shipping and airline companies in Nigeria may sell transportation tickets for anywhere in the world, except Rhodesia, against payment in Nigerian currency. The cost of services rendered by travel agents in respect of hotel accommoda- tion, meals en route, etc., must be covered from the basic travel allowance. Foreign nationals residing in Nigeria may purchase annually foreign currency up to 50 per cent of their gross taxable earnings in Nigeria for all personal remittances, including the basic travel allowance. All insurance other than that for which facilities do not exist in Nigeria must be taken out with a company in Nigeria. Persons going abroad are permitted to take with them £50 in sterling. Residents are permitted to take out the equivalent of their basic travel allowance of <£N 100 in foreign currency notes; nonresident visitors may take out <£50 in sterling and any other foreign currency notes that were declared upon en try. The export of Nigerian cur- rency notes and coins are prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most locally produced goods may be exported freely, under open general license, to any other country except South Africa and South-West Afr ica (exports to these countries require individual licenses). Individual export licenses are required for exports of cigarettes and tobacco, columbite, tin and by-products of tin, tantalite, unref ined 322 gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products sub- ject to control by the Marketing Board (e.g., cocoa, cotton, cottonseed, benniseed, groundnuts, groundnut oil, palm oil, and palm kernels). The export of certain goods (African antiquities or works of art produced before 1918, objects that are being used or have been used in African ceremonies) is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. The export of explosives, other than industrial explosives, and of certain foods is pro- hibited. Exports of petroleum and petroleum products are subject to special arrangements. Export proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized dealer in Nigeria, the United Kingdom, or the United States within six months from the day of shipment. For all exports, including those destined for a country in the Sterling Area, the exporter is required to submit an exchange control declaration at the time of shipment; the require- ment also applies to exports of hydrocarbon oils to the Sterling Area. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Persons entering Nigeria may freely bring in foreign banknotes. The import of Nigerian currency notes and coins is prohibited. Capital Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission from the Ministry of Finance is required for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow in any coun- try outside Nigeria. Official agencies and state- controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrow- ing. Nonresidents of the Sterling Area intending to make direct investments in Nigeria are invited to apply to the Ministry of Finance for "approved status," the granting of which means that sympa- thetic consideration will be given to fu ture requests to repatriate the capital. The granting of "approved status" is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment proj- ect. The repatriation of foreign capital requires approval from the Ministry of Finance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The permission of the Ministry of Finance is also required for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any nonresident individual or company, (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) which is controlled directly or indirectly from out- side Nigeria, or (3) by any branch in Nigeria of a nonresident company (other than a b ank ). How- ever, to enable entities mentioned under (2) and (3) to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign currency securities nor may they buy from or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in Nigerian pounds without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be col- lected and negotiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties, producers of gold, and industrial users. Imports of gold coins and of gold and silver bullion are duty-free when made by the Central Bank for monetary purposes; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1967 April 7. Applications by authorized dealers for the purchase of foreign exchange and for all trans- NIGERIA fers to countries outside Nigeria had to be sup- ported by relevant information, including the names of the beneficiaries. May 4. Nigeria signed the Protocol of Associa- tion for the establishment of a West African Eco- nomic Community. June 1. The import and export of Nigerian cur- rency notes and coins was prohibited. June 1. Remittances in respect of invisibles to Sterling Area countries that previously could be made without limit or formality had to be sup- ported by documents before authorized dealers could undertake the transfer. In addition, certain payments to Sterling Area countries required exchange control approval. June 30. Payments to and receipts from Sterling Area countries (including those relating to imports and exports) became subject to the same regula- tions, formalities, and procedures previously applicable to those to and from non-Sterling Area countries. All payments abroad required specific exchange control permission. June 30. The pound sterling, the Japanese yen, and the Spanish peseta were added to the list of specified currencies, and residents' holdings of these currencies had to be sold to authorized dealers. June 30. The basic travel allowance of <£N 250 per annum a person became applicable also to travel to Sterling Area countries, which previously was unrestricted. Personal remittances of any kind to any country by foreign nationals residing in Nigeria were limited to 50 per cent of their gross taxable income in Nigeria and became sub- ject to prior approval by the Central Bank; the travel allowance for such persons was to be set off against the 50 per cent over-all limit. Remittances to students were restricted to those for courses not available in Nigeria, but applications on behalf of students already abroad were considered on their merits. All personal remittances by Nigerians required individual approval. June 30. Payments for imports in advance of receipt of the goods required specific prior approval by the Central Bank. Payments in excess of .£500 required the prior approval of the Fed- eral Ministry of Finance. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA June 30. Payments for imports were required to be related to current imports, i.e., to goods received not more than nine months before the time of payment. The specific approval of the Central Bank was required to make payments in respect of imports that had been delivered in Nigeria more than nine months previously. July 5. Banks were required to make all export proceeds (other than those from oil exports) avail- able to the Central Bank upon receipt; these proceeds were to be credited to special accounts in the name of the Central Bank with the London offices of the commercial banks. The Central Bank would sell foreign exchange to banks against formal letters of request supported by approved exchange control forms as well as, where imports were involved, by certified bills of entry and invoices. October 20. A 5 per cent "national reconstruc- tion surcharge" was levied on the c.i.f. value of all imported and excisable goods, with the exception of basic foods and certain raw materials. Customs duties on many imports were raised. October 20. Imports of gold coins and gold and silver bullion became subject to customs duty at a rate of 100 per cent ad valorem; such imports remained duty-free, however, when made by the Central Bank for monetary purposes. October 20. A number of commodities were deleted from the open general license for imports. The import of a number of textile products was prohibited. November 10. Government Notice No. 1817 indicated the procedures for import license appli- cations for 1968. Unlike those for 1967, they did not provide for the issuance of specific licenses in respect of imports from South Africa or South- West Africa. November 21. The basic travel allowance for residents was reduced from «£N 250 a year to <£N 100 a year ( < £N 50 a year for children). November 21. Imports of meat, eggs, and fruits were prohibited, except when bottled or canned. Import duties on selected consumer goods were raised. November 21. All insurance that could be covered in Nigeria had to be taken out with a company in Nigeria. 324 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Norwegian Krone or NKr 7.14286 = US$1. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are NKr 7.09 buying, and NKr 7.20 selling, per US$1—rates at which the exchange authorities will buy or sell; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for most Western European currencies vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Norway and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Forward transactions with residents must have a commer- cial basis. Norway accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minis- try of Commerce and Shipping in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. The authority to approve most current payments has been delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Imports and exports of precious metals, and of semimanufactured articles thereof, are licensed by the Bank of Norway. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries except Eastern Germany may be made in any convertible cur- rency, including Norwegian kroner on Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Settlements with Eastern Ger- many, with which the only bilateral payments agreement is maintained, must be made in the manner prescribed in that agreement. Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Convertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all countries except East- ern Germany (see section on Prescription of Cur- rency, above). They may be credited with author- ized payments to any country other than Eastern Germany, with transfers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible currencies. They may be debited for authorized payments from any country except Eastern Germany to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Most imports do not require an import license. Practically all industrial goods may be imported freely from the import free list area l upon presen- tation of the original invoice. Imports of a few commodities, including certain temperate zone agricultural products, are restricted, irrespective of origin. There are two restricted lists for specified countries—one applicable to imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R., and the other appli- cable to imports from Japan and the Republic of Korea; many of the goods on these lists are licensed automatically. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. A global quota list contains 13 quotas for com- modities, mainly agricultural products, for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to all countries. Specialized and sec- ondhand ships are licensed freely.2 The import of a small number of commodities is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, equipment and materials for the fishing industry, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. If no license is required, or when an import license has been obtained, payment may be made ^he import free list area comprises all countries except Albania, Bulgaria, Ma in land China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, Macao, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Mon- golia, Poland, Rhodesia, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 2 Licenses are also required for imports of liberalized ships (i.e., dry cargo ships) bu i lt abroad, in order to supervise compliance with certain regulations regarding paymen ts in advance of delivery. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY without delay, provided that the method of pay- ment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). wegian banknotes and coins up to NKr 1,000, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100, and other means of payment without limit. Payments for Invisibles Payments to any country other than Eastern Germany for all current invisibles, including income from capital and contractual amortization, may be made freely. Payments for invisibles to Eastern Germany must be made in the manner prescribed in the payments agreement, a liberal practice being followed with regard to most invisibles. Payments for any purpose to any country other than Eastern Germany do not require verification by authorized banks, provided that these payments do not exceed the equivalent of NKr 500. The granting of exchange for travel purposes is not restricted. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is equivalent to NKr 5,000 a trip for each person. For business travel, the banks may sell reasonable amounts. Each person leav- ing Norway may take with him up to NKr 350 in Norwegian banknotes and coins, in denomi- nations not exceeding NKr 100. Nonresidents leaving Norway may, in addition, export any for- eign banknotes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to countries in the export free list area,3 against a declaration or a license, which is granted automatically. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. All exports to countries outside the export free list area require an export license. Exports to any country valued at not more than NKr 500 are exempt from export license. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments must be received within 12 months of shipment and in conformity with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). All exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Each person entering Norway may bring in Nor- 3 The export free list area comprises all countries except A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, Mainland China, Czechoslo- vakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Mon- golia, Poland, Rhodesia, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and Nor th Viet-Nam. 326 Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Norway by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. Outward transfers of capital require individual licenses; the granting of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted freely, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automatically. Pay- ments for contractual amortization are also per- mitted freely. Most transactions in securities involving nonresident interests are subject to approval. Norwegian securities purchased by non- residents from Norwegian residents by special per- mission may be resold to Norwegian residents who will be granted licenses for the transfer of the proceeds from the sale. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to family loans, gifts, inheritances, lega- cies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of non- resident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely to any member country of the International Monetary Fund. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other author- ized investments, have to be surrendered. Appli- cations for capital transfers to make direct invest- ments abroad are considered on their individual merits, and portfolio investment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Resident-owned for- eign securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange are freely negotiable between residents. Residents other than banks require the prior approval of the Bank of Norway before raising loans, accepting other forms of capital, or incur- ring or providing guarantee obligations abroad. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Norway for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jew- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution elry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of Norway; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coins not contained in jewelry. Changes during 1967 January L A number of foods were freed from import licensing, irrespective of origin. January L Guidelines for the banks' foreign borrowing operations in 1967 became effective. These assumed that the banks as a whole would not increase their borrowing (including foreign currency time deposits and acceptance liabilities in connection with financing of imports and ex- ports through bills of exchange) over the monthly NORWAY average for 1966. The exchange regulations would be used to limit to NKr 600 million the direct net inflow of capital from abroad, other than foreign loans to be taken up in connection with the import of ships, to the private sector and municipalities. January 1. The global quotas for 1967 went into effect. February 19. All trade with Rhodesia was prohibited. May 11. Norway accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. June 1. A number of foods were freed from import licensing, irrespective of origin. October 1. A new trade agreement with Japan went into effect, in which Norway undertook to liberalize the import of some additional commodi- ties when originating in that country. 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Pakistan Rupee or Pakistan Rupees 4.76190 = US$1. All transactions in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers, whose transactions with the general public must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank of Pakistan on the basis of par values established with the International Monetary Fund. Author- ized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover in the London market their requirements of specified currencies. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified currencies against sterling or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the coun- tries concerned. On December 30, 1967, market rates for telegraphic transfers on London were Is. 91/£2d. buying, and Is. 831/32(1. selling, per rupee, and on New York they were PRs 4.7225 buying, and PRs 4.7775 selling, per US$1. Other effective rates arise from the negotiation of bonus vouchers which certain exporters and a few other earners or recipients of exchange may sell at freely determined rates to importers who need them in order to obtain import licenses for various commodities or to obtain exchange for certain invisibles. On December 30, 1967, these vouchers issued under the Export Bonus Scheme were quoted at PRs 166.25 per PRs 100 of nominal value. Administration of Control The State Bank of Pakistan has delegated to 31 banks and financial institutions authority to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise sur- render requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits prescribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses and implementation of import and export policies. Prescription of Currency Pakistan is a member of the Sterling Area, and the prescribed methods for settling both trade and nontrade transactions are similar to those of most other Sterling Area countries. Payments between Pakistan and India or Rhodesia are suspended; 328 there is an inoperative clearing account with the former. Exchange receipts must be obtained through an authorized dealer. Receipts from countries in the Sterling Area must be received in sterling from the account of a resident of the Sterling Area (other than a resident of Pakistan) or in Pakistan rupees from the account of a bank in the Sterling Area. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area must be obtained in sterling from an Exter- nal Account in the United Kingdom, in Pakistan rupees from the account of a bank outside the Sterling Area, or in any non-Sterling Area cur- rency. Payments abroad must be made through an authorized dealer. Payments by residents of Paki- stan to countries in the Sterling Area are made by transferring sterling or any other Sterling Area currency, including Pakistan rupees, to an appro- priate account. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area are made by transferring sterling or Pakistan rupees to a nonresident account or, in some cases, in the recipient's currency. For imports, payment is normally made to the coun- try of origin of the goods. No exchange control is exercised over transac- tions with Afghanistan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or afghanis. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconvertible currencies. Trade in specified commodities with Bulgaria, Mainland China, Hungary, Nepal, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia is settled through clearing accounts maintained in incon- vertible Pakistan rupees; trade with Czechoslo- vakia in specified commodities is settled through a clearing account in Czechoslovak korunas. Pay- ments to and from Iran and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade and defense materials) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other. Authorized dealers may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution open rupee accounts for banks abroad without reference to the State Bank, but approval is required for opening other nonresident accounts. Transfers f rom nonresident banks' rupee accounts in Pakistan to the corresponding sterling accounts in the United Kingdom are allowed, but other non- resident account holders must obtain permission from the exchange control authorities for transfers from their credit balances. Accounts of residents of India, except those of the Indian High Com- mission and its personnel, are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are classified in four lists: a free list, a licensable list, an export bonus list (also called bonus import list), and a cash-cum-bonus list. All imports require licenses, except goods on the free list and goods imported by the Central Government for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land route f rom Afghanistan and Iran, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification (No. 335/260/24, June 12, 1951). The import of goods on the free list is restricted to registered industrial consumers and commercial importers, unless exemption from registration is obtained; however, limitations are applied to individual import entitlements for goods on this list, ceilings on individual letters of credit being based on past import performance. Permis- sible sources and conditions of procurement are prescribed for certain items on the list. Import licenses for commodities on the licensable list are granted on a discretionary basis; these licenses and licenses for items on the export bonus list and the cash-cum-bonus list are issued in accordance with procedures indicated below. A number of imports are prohibited or are not being licensed. With the exception of specific country licenses issued in accordance with trade, aid, or loan agreements with particular countries, import licenses may be used in any country of the world other than India, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Import licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis to established commercial importers and industrial consumers and only for commodities specified in the semiannual import program. The quantities to be imported by established importers are deter- mined by the authorities on an historical basis. A special industrial licensing procedure operates for PAKISTAN imports of licensable items by recognized indus- trial units. This procedure allows specified indus- tries to receive import licenses for items not on the free list on a specific basis determined by the competent authority. For items on the licensable list, industrial consumers receive licenses accord- ing to fixed entitlements based on requirements for operations at single-shift capacity; commercial importers receive licenses under fixed quotas based on past import performance. A fur ther category of specified industries must meet all requirements of items not on the free list against the surrender of bonus vouchers, the use of which is free of quantitative restriction. Additional licenses are granted to exporting industries other than those producing cotton textiles and jute manufactures for specified items of their production require- ments other than items on the free list; licensing of the leather goods and ready-made garment industries is linked to their export targets. Import licenses are also issued under the Export Bonus Scheme. The holder of a bonus voucher (entitlement to import) must apply within 30 days (12 months for imports of heavy machinery and equipment) of the receipt of the voucher for the issue of an import license for any of the items eligible under the Export Bonus Scheme. This license is issued without restriction and without the importer having to be registered. Import licenses issued against bonus vouchers are valid for 6 months from the day of their issue, except for imports of heavy machinery and equipment, for which the period may be extended up to 24 months. Licensing of items on the cash-cum- bonus list is subject to the surrender of bonus vouchers equivalent to 50 per cent of the amount of the license; importers must obtain a license to effect imports against bonus vouchers before they can qualify for a cash license for an equal amount, and the licenses issued against bonus vouchers are stamped "nontransferable." Except for imports against bonus import licenses, letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports; a 15 per cent margin deposit is required on letters of credit for imports on the free list. Remittances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases, e.g., machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be made with foreign manufacturers, the State Bank may author- 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN ize advance payments for a part of the value of the goods. Imports of all commodities, except machinery, are subject to a "defense surcharge" of 25 per cent of the applicable rate of customs duty. Many imports are subject to a customs surcharge ("regu- latory du ty") of 10 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and require licenses. No remittances are permitted to be made to India or Rhodesia. Under authority delegated to them, authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accordance with detailed regulations. Certain remittances of a personal nature are subject to annual quotas, but most are approved at the dis- cretion of the State Bank. Remittances by Pak- istani nationals to their families abroad require special authorization. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded the underlying trade transaction. Trans- port insurance must, except with respect to certain aid shipments, be taken out with insurance com- panies in Pakistan. The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign share- holders where the investment was made with the Government's approval. There is an annual allowance for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia. No exchange is being granted until fu r ther notice for tourism or other private travel. However, exchange for business travel, medical trea tmen t, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on an individual basis. Exporters may use a limited percentage of their entitlements under the Export Bonus Scheme for business travel or for opening and ma in ta in ing branch offices outside Pakistan. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign cur- rency not exceeding the amounts they brought in and PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for Afghanistan may take out PRs 50 in Pakistan currency notes and coins and any amount of Afghan currency. Persons traveling on Cate- gory "A" visas (to Ind ia) may not take out any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Residents travel- ing to other foreign destinations may take out 330 PRs 20 in Pakistan currency and, subject to State Bank authorization, up to the equivalent of <£ 10 in foreign currency notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of most commodities are allowed freely. However, export licenses are required for 24 listed items, as well as for certain types of sports goods and a few other items below minimum export prices, and for mill-made cotton piece goods and ready-made garments intended for export to the United Kingdom. Exports to India, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The State Bank exercises control over exchange receipts and requires a declaration by the exporter that, when payment in accordance with the pre- scribed method is received, he will surrender the exchange within a certain period of time. Af ter making certain that the exporter's declaration meets all conditions, the authorized dealer certifies the shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months; export proceeds from ju te manufactures, however, must be repatriated within six months. There is an Export Bonus Scheme applicable to exporters of all goods other than the following major items: raw ju te; raw cotton; hides and skins, including lambskins but excluding fu rs and reptile skins; rice; and tea. After surrendering all their exchange receipts for local currency, exporters of other primary products, by-products, semimanu- factured goods, including unfinished cotton piece goods, and manufactured goods involving a simple manufac tur ing process are issued bonus vouchers of a value equivalent to 20, 30, or 40 per cent of the net exchange surrendered, while for exports of other goods the percentage is 40. Exporters must apply to the State Bank within 45 days of the retirement of bills of exchange relating to exports made under the scheme for the issuance of bonus vouchers. These vouchers are freely transferable and entitle the holder to import a wide range of specified commodities, which are generally not otherwise licensed for importation. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived f rom invisibles must be surrendered at ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the official rate within one month. Pakistanis who are either employed or carrying on business abroad are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 40 per cent of all remittances of savings made by them to their relatives in Pakistan; earners of foreign exchange from certain services (aircraft repairs, salvage and lighterage operations, and ship repairs) are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 20 per cent of the net foreign exchange earned by them; and earners of foreign exchange from shipping are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 30 per cent of their exchange earnings. All Pakistani nationals resid- ing abroad are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 40 per cent of the foreign exchange they remit for the purchase of Government of Pakistan 5 per cent Defense Bonds, 1970. The vouchers recorded in all cases are freely trans- ferable and entitle the holder to import a wide range of specified commodities. Under the Bonus Scheme for Hotels, hotels are entitled to receive bonus vouchers against which they can obtain import licenses equivalent to 20 per cent of their exchange earnings from foreign tourists for room charges; these licenses are valid for a number of items required by the hotel industry. Bonus vouchers issued under this scheme are freely transferable within the hotel industry and are stamped so as to distinguish them from other bonus vouchers. Bonus facilities apply also to Indus Basin con- tracts; all suppliers are entitled to bonus vouchers equivalent to 30 per cent of the foreign exchange earned f rom machinery items and 20 per cent from all other supplies. Persons traveling on Category "A" visas ( f rom India) may not bring in any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Other travelers may bring in PRs 80 in Pakistan currency notes, subject to declaration to the customs, and Rs 5 in coins that are legal tender in India; Pakistan currency notes in denominations of PRs 50, 100, and 500 may not be brought in. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes and coins, but they must be declared to the customs on entry. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage indus- trial development in Pakistan, the Government PAKISTAN follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepre- neurs, who can start any industry in the private sector without any conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is, however, expected that local rupee expenditure will ordinarily be met from local equity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) For- eign capital invested in approved industries estab- lished after September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time thereafter to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction, to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits that are reinvested in approved industrial projects with the approval of the Gov- ernment may be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. (3) Appre- ciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repa- triation facilities will be subject to the exchange control regulations in force at the time, and they will not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1, 1954. Guarantees provide for just and fa ir compensa- tion in the currency of the country of origin of the capital, in the event of nationalization of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan, and thus facilitate repatriation at any time of the principal and prize winnings. Transfers of capital abroad by residents are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of foreign securities by Pakistanis requires approval by the State Bank. However, detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country or monetary area to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresidents for purposes of transfer of securities. Foreign nationals are permitted to pur- chase Pakistan securities upon approval by the State Bank; the subsequent sale of such securities to foreign nationals also requires approval by the State Bank, but the sale to Pakistanis does not. 3 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Exports of, and transactions in, securities involv- ing nonresident interests are subject to approval. Proceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresi- dent capital assets may be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved securities payable in Pakistan rupees. Gold There are no restrictions on possession of gold. The export and import of gold is prohibited unless permitted by the State Bank. Changes during 1967 January 1. The export bonus on exports of cotton waste (hard and so f t ), yellow pickings, cotton linters, and cottonseed hull fiber was with- drawn. January 3. The import of tools and workshop equipment, dyes, chemicals, and pigments on the free list was also permitted under the trade agree- ment with Yugoslavia. January 9. Stamped bonus vouchers issued against exports of the jute industry could be used for the import of all edible oils, of oil seeds for the production of edible oils, and of raw materials for the tea, paper, match, and umbrella industries. January 10. Applications to establish letters of credit for imports on the free list against Pakistan's own foreign exchange cash resources had to be held by authorized dealers, who could not, until further notice, forward them to the State Bank for approval. (Since December 26, 1966, the opening of letters of credit for free list imports against Pakistan's own foreign exchange resources, as opposed to aid or barter imports, had required the prior approval of the State Bank .) January 14. The import of technical books, journals, magazines, etc., on the free list against Pakistan's own foreign exchange cash resources was permitted only against letters of credit. January 24. Recognized textile mills could import looms on the free list under barter arrange- ments with Eastern European countries without surrendering bonus vouchers. January 30. The State Bank imposed certain new credit restrictions, many of them differentiated according to type of commodity. Thus, commer- 332 cial banks were to limit credit on imported con- sumer goods to 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value in West Pakistan and to 60 per cent in East Pakistan, and to limit credit on most imported raw materials to 85 per cent of the c.i.f. value. February 1. The additional 10 per cent bonus on the export of cotton cloth in excess of a mill's global export quota was extended to June 30, 1967; exports to Afghanistan would not qualify for bonus or additional bonus. February 1. Payments in respect of all trans- actions under a line of credit negotiated with the U.S.S.R. in September 1966 were to be routed through the National Bank of Pakistan. February 2. A barter agreement providing for the use of special accounts was signed with a Swedish corporation. February 25. Authorized banks were permitted, subject to specified conditions, to extend guaran- tees to foreign government agencies or organiza- tions sponsored by foreign governments in respect of tenders for the supply of goods by Pakistan exporters. February 28. Importers holding cash import licenses issued on an annual basis for 1966/67 were permitted to establish letters of credit for the unutilized portion of such licenses. Authorized banks could establish letters of credit against Pakistan's own foreign exchange resources for items on the free list, subject to an individual import authorization by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. April 4. An exchange quota of <£40 was estab- lished for a limited number of pilgrims to Iran and Iraq; for pilgrims traveling by air, the exchange was only granted against surrender of bonus vouchers. April 8. The utilization period for annual cash import licenses for items on the free list was short- ened to end on June 15, 1967. April 10. The validity of bonus vouchers, including those granted on home remittances, was reduced from 90 to 30 days, except for those to be utilized for the import of heavy machinery and equipment, which continued to be valid for one year. April 28. A barter agreement providing for the use of special accounts was signed with Ceylon. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May 27. Travelers to Afghanistan were per- mitted to take with them Pakistan notes and coins up to the value of PRs 50 (previously PRs 20). June 8. All new letters of credit for imports of items on the free list against Pakistan's own foreign exchange resources were required to be registered with the State Bank. No increase in the amount or extension in the validity of existing letters of credit for such imports could be effected without the permission of the State Bank. All import licenses issued against bonus vouchers were hence- for th to be registered with the State Bank. The effect was that all imports not financed by medium- term or long-term credit had to be registered with the State Bank before letters of credit cduld be opened. June 10. In the budget for 1967/68, the rate of tax rebate on exports was increased by 1 per cent over the basic rate of 15 per cent for every increase of 10 per cent over the export sales of the preceding year, subject to a maximum rebate of 25 per cent; similarly, the rate of rebate was decreased by 1 per cent from the rate of rebate of the preceding year for every fall of 10 per cent in export sales. June 13. Sales of foreign currency notes and coins to travelers, within the limits of their author- ized exchange allocations, were restricted to the equivalent of <£ 10 a person; the rest of the alloca- tions had to be taken up in travelers checks or circular letters of credit. June 15. A price equalization levy was applied to specified imports, including pig iron, certain iron and steel products, cement, coal, and raw materials for specified industries. The levy was equal to the difference between "landed cost" (including import duties and other import charges) and the "highest rate of landed cost" on imports of the same commodity from the most expensive supplier country. The latter rate would be pub- lished by the Government for each shipment period. June 30. The bilateral payments arrangement with Indonesia was terminated. July 1. A regional payments agreement between Pakistan, Iran, and Turkey (the members of the Regional Cooperation for Development —RCD) came into effect. Fifty per cent of each payment for visible trade (other than defense materials and PAKISTAN border trade) between members was to be settled through clearing accounts denominated in U.S. dollars which the three central banks maintained with each other, and the other 50 per cent in convertible currency. July 7. The rate of export bonus on jute sacking was raised from 20 to 30 per cent; 10 per cent was granted in free bonus vouchers, as before, and 20 per cent in stamped vouchers with limited import eligibility. July 8. Import policy for the second half of 1967 was announced, thus discontinuing the prac- tice of executing an annual import program. The free list was reduced from 67 to 10 items and the licensable list from 96 to 83 items. Sixteen of the former free list items and 37 items previously on the licensable list were shifted to the export bonus list, which previously contained mainly consumer goods and nonessential items but now included essential raw materials, components, and spare parts. Commercial importers who formerly imported free list items that were now shifted to the licensable list would be allowed import licenses for only one such item. Licensing of 13 items was tied exclusively to aid or barter sources. A new licensing scheme, the cash-cum-bonus scheme, was introduced for a large number of commodities; by surrendering bonus vouchers, importers could obtain licenses for these items for double the amount of the bonus vouchers surrendered, but they had to effect bonus imports before they could qualify for a cash license for an equal amount (the bonus licenses were stamped "nontransferable"). The number of industries eligible for licenses for goods on the licensable list was reduced from 258 to 219. A group of 84 industries had to meet all their import requirements (other than free list items) by surrendering bonus vouchers. Thus, the viscose rayon and acetate yarn industries had to obtain all their raw material requirements against surrender of stamped bonus vouchers. The policy was continued of allowing special import licenses linked to export performance to all exporting industries (except cotton textiles and jute manu- factures) in amounts not exceeding 50 per cent of the f.o.b. value of their exports; for certain indus- tries this privilege was increased in scope. July 8. The import of a number of commodities under the export bonus scheme was suspended. 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN These included motor bicycles and scooters, bicycle tires, and light bulbs. July 26. The Bonus Scheme for Hotels was amended so that hotels received transferable bonus entitlement vouchers equivalent to 20 per cent of foreign exchange earnings from room charges paid by tourists of foreign nationality; these vouch- ers were eligible for imports of both specified hotel requirements and items importable against stamped bonus vouchers. The vouchers were stamped so as to distinguish them from other types of bonus voucher. August 5. The settlement was permitted of additional freight on imports corresponding to surcharges imposed by shipping lines following the closing of the Suez Canal, provided that bonus vouchers equivalent to the amount of surcharge were surrendered. August 19. Foreign banks operating in Pakistan were permitted to underwrite share issues of com- panies incorporated in Pakistan in association with the Investment Corporation of Pakistan, subject to the total value of shares underwritten in each issue not exceeding 5 per cent of the capital offered to the general public for subscription. September 1. Banking companies were directed to maintain in Pakistan not less than 25 per cent of the total of their time and demand liabilities in Pakistan. September 19. In accordance with a trade agreement with North Korea, settlements for speci- fied imports and exports were made through spe- cial accounts in inconvertible Pakistan rupees maintained by the National Bank of Pakistan and the Bank of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. October 2. Export bonuses at the prescribed rates were granted on exports to Turkey and Iran under the RCD payments arrangements (see July 1). November 22. The export bonus granted on home remittances by Pakistan nationals residing abroad was raised from 30 per cent to 40 per cent. November 22. The rate of export bonus was increased by 10 percentage points for all goods (other than jute manufactures) already eligible for bonus, and an export bonus was for the first time granted on wool, at a rate of 20 per cent. The bonus on ju te manufactures was set at a uniform 20 per cent (except for Wilton-type carpets with a jute pile, waterproofed jute matting, and jutoid and hemp fishing nets, on all of which the rate of bonus was fixed at 40 per cent) granted entirely in the form of ordinary bonus vouchers, compared with previous entitlements of 10 per cent in free bonus vouchers and 10 or 20 per cent in stamped vouchers; the stamped bonus voucher was abolished. The 10 per cent additional bonus for the export of cotton textiles in excess of pre- scribed quotas was withdrawn. November 22. The export duties on raw jute and raw cotton were eliminated. A regulatory 10 per cent ad valorem duty was imposed on imports of most industrial raw materials not coming within the bonus or cash-cum-bonus arrangements and on such finished goods as automobiles, air con- ditioners, and refrigerators; certain essentials (including food and similar items, petroleum prod- ucts, agricultural machinery, fertilizers, and pesti- cides) were exempt from the levy; for nonagricul- tural machinery imported into East Pakistan, the du ty was 5 per cent. 334 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Panamanian Balboa or B 1.00 = US$1. U.S. currency notes and coins circulate freely in Panama, and local currency is represented only by limited amounts of silver balboas and subsidiary coins. Exchange transactions by commercial banks are based on New York market quotations. Panama has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On November 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Import and export policy is determined by the Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce, and Industry. Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Office, a semiautonomous institution of the Panamanian Government. In rare cases, import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce, and Industry. The Price Regulation Office is responsi- ble for the implementation of restrictions on imports of commodities that compete with national production and on certain exports; the Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce, and Industry deter- mines the import quotas for commodities that are produced or are about to be produced in Panama. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Quotas are imposed on imports of commodities competing with present or prospective domestic production; some of these are not being licensed. Import licensing also applies to imports of various foods. Other imports are free. Payments abroad may be made freely. A tax of 1 per cent on the f .o.b. value is levied, in addition to import duty, on imports of all dutia- ble goods other than medical equipment and medicines. Exports and Export Proceeds Authorization is required for exports of coffee in any form, coconuts, copra, and beef cattle. Merchandise on which export taxes are imposed is also subject to licensing. Export taxes are imposed on the following: gold, silver, and platinum; manganese; other minerals; bananas; coconuts; scrap metals; pearls; animal wax; nispero gum; ipecac root; and rubber. Exports of wheat flour, firearms, and ammunition are pro- hibited. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home and abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by residents other than the monetary authorities; import and export licenses are issued freely by the Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce, and Industry. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export tax of 1 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1967 During the year, imports of a considerable num- ber of commodities became subject to restriction. February 28. Imports subject to restriction could not be cleared through customs unless a certificate from the Office of the Controller- 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA General was submitted confirming that the ship- ment came within the authorized quota. April 15. Law No. 29 went into force, which introduced a 1 per cent tax on the f.o.b. value of all dutiable imports, except medical equipment and medicines; the tax was levied in addition to existing import duties. December. A verdict of the Supreme Court of Justice established that the power to determine import quotas was vested in the Ministry of Agri- culture, Commerce, and Industry. Previously, this power was exercised by the Commission for the Study of Import Quotas in the Price Regulation Office. 336 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Exchange Rate System On March 1, 1956, a par value for the Para- guayan Guarani was established by Paraguay with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Exchange transactions take place at free market rates, which since October 1960 have been pegged at 0 123.60 buying, and 0 126.00 selling, per US$1. Settlements with Spain are made through a clearing account at a fixed rate of 0 125.00 per US$ 1. All purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be made through authorized commercial banks, except those related to government pay- ments for imports and services, which are carried out through the Central Bank. There are no for- ward exchange facilities. All purchases of exchange by banks are subject to a tax of l/2 of 1 per cent. All remittances of foreign exchange are also subject to a tax of % of 1 per cent. The authorized banks are required to sell 30 per cent of their gross foreign exchange receipts to the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Paraguay administers the exchange controls and supervises the foreign exchange transactions carried out by authorized commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Spain under a bilateral pay- ments agreement with that country must be made through a clearing account maintained in terms of U.S. dollars. Otherwise, there are no prescription of currency requirements. Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Chile, Mexico, and Peru may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Paraguay and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited.1 All other imports are free of quantitative restric- tion and licensing. Imports of many commodities 1 These in c lude ce r ta in ag r i cu l tu r al produc ts, depend ing on the season, and ce r ta in pe t ro leum produc ts. are subject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which is retained for 120 days, or if the deposit is made after the date of shipment, 180 days, or for nonexempt commodities imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, 90 days. Advance deposits are not required for gov- ernment imports, imports by diplomats and by certain international organizations, certain agricul- tural machinery from any source, imports from neighboring countries, Spanish agricultural and industrial machinery and implements imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, and imports from LAFTA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list (the National List). Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place. An import sur- charge of 32 per cent applies to most general imports. Petroleum products are subject to a sur- charge of 15 per cent. The surcharge is 8 per cent on some semiprocessed products (mainly pharma- ceuticals) imported from LAFTA countries. There is an additional surcharge of 5 per cent on imports from all sources of radios, record players, and their parts and accessories. These surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the prin- cipal exemptions from surcharge: wheat; crude oil; agricultural tractors; books and periodicals; imports for the Government, for religious organ- izations, for cooperatives, for diplomats, and for certain international organizations; Spanish agricultural and industrial machinery and imple- ments imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay; and imports from LAFTA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list. Imports of investment goods, of raw materials for export industries, and of certain other raw mate- rials receive exemption on a case-by-case basis. A customs surcharge is levied on most imports. On goods that are not exempt, it ranges from 8 per cent to 24 per cent (from 8 per cent to 18 per cent for goods subject to LAFTA concessions) and is levied on the f.o.b. value plus 10 per cent for imports f rom neighboring countries, and on the 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY f.o.b. value plus 20 per cent for imports f rom other countries. Exempt from this complementary import duty are public sector and diplomatic imports; raw materials and equipment for the pro- duction of goods that are subject to internal con- sumption taxes; imports under Capital Investment Law No. 246 or Industrial Benefits Law No. 202; and all imported goods taxed under the Internal Consumption Tax Law. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval from the Central Bank. This approval is normally granted only for imports of machinery and vehicles other than private auto- mobiles. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks may sell exchange freely for specified current invisibles, provided that appro- priate documentation is submitted. They may grant allocations for travel purposes as follows, for each person each trip: the equivalent of US$150 for neighboring countries, including Uru- guay; of US$300 for other Latin American coun- tries; and of US$1,000 for all other countries. Applications for exchange for other invisibles or for unusually large amounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank; this is normally given if the Bank is satisfied that no illicit capital movements are involved. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses, in order to assure domestic supplies. The proceeds of exports must be collected within 180 days after comple- tion of shipping formalities, and the exchange sold to a commercial bank. For certain exports m in imum surrender prices (aforos) are estab- lished; these prices are of an indicative character, and the fu ll export proceeds must be surrendered. Producers of coffee are permitted to retain 50 per cent of their export proceeds; such retained pro- ceeds may only be used to meet dividend and interest payments due to nonresidents and to pay for imports of machinery and equipment for the producers' own use. Most exports are subject to taxes payable in guaranies of 1% Per cent> 5 per cent, or 2% per cent of the f.o.b. value; these taxes are collected by the banks. 338 Proceeds front Invisibles There are no surrender requirements in respect of the exchange proceeds from invisibles. Travel- ers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be recorded by the authorized banks. Authorized banks may freely grant exchange for contractual capital transfers, subject to production of appro- priate documentation. Other outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the Central Bank and in certain cases are restricted. Decree- Law No. 246 of February 25, 1955, the Capital Investment Law, empowers the Government to grant special tax, customs, and advance deposit concessions to proposed private foreign invest- ments, provided that these are registered; the terms may vary f rom case to case. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is seldom granted to residents other than the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1967 January 1. Operations under the reciprocal credit agreement with Argentina were modified to allow direct transfers between commercial banks in the two countries. February 1. The meat packing industry's export processing quota for 1967 was fixed at 250,000 head of cattle, the same number as in 1966. At the same time, tax reductions for meat processing firms were announced. February 8. The authorized banks were required to sell up to 30 per cent of their daily foreign exchange receipts to the Central Bank; the per- centage was to be fixed by the Central Bank, which set it at 30 per cent (previously 25 per cent). The authorized banks no longer were required to sell 15 per cent of their daily exchange receipts to the oil companies. March 31. Law No. 451 introduced a comple- mentary customs duty on imported goods to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution replace the sales tax on these commodities. It ranged from 8 per cent to 24 per cent (from zero per cent to 18 per cent for goods subject to LAFTA tariff concessions). This customs sur- charge was to be calculated on the f .o.b. value plus 10 per cent for neighboring countries, and on the f.o.b. value of imported goods plus 20 per cent for other countries. July 19. The export tax on corn was suspended until the end of 1967. July 25. The export tax on tung oil was sus- pended until the end of 1967. September 6. Agricultural tractors were exempted from the import surcharge by Decree No. 28883. December 26. Decree No. 30760 prohibited the export of certain types of wood and provided for a gradual decrease in the export of timber in the fo rm of logs and beams to 40,000 tons a year by 1972. PARAGUAY December 30. Law No. 1334 modified the import surcharges regime. The surcharge on cer- tain imports from LAFTA countries was reduced to 8 per cent. The surcharge on petroleum deriva- tives from LAFTA countries was increased from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. For commodities imported from LAFTA countries and included in Paraguay's National List, the rates in that list were maintained. The surcharge on imports from coun- tries that are not members of LAFTA remained at 32 per cent. For those commodities from LAFTA countries that were neither entitled to the 8 per cent rate nor included in the National List, the surcharge was increased from 24 per cent to 32 per cent. Radios, record players, and their parts and accessories remained subject to an additional sur- charge of 5 per cent, the total surcharge payable being 37 per cent. The law also enumerated the exemptions from the import surcharge; these included all imports of wheat and crude petroleum. 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Exchange Rate System On December 18, 1946, a par value for the Peruvian Sol was established by Peru with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There is a dual exchange market with two fluctuating exchange rates, an exchange certificate market rate applying to all trade transactions and specified nontrade transactions, including the principal capital movements, and a draft market rate for services and most other nontrade transactions. Export proceeds must be converted into exchange certificates, which are valid for five days x and are issued in U.S. dollars only. These exchange certificates are negotiable in the certificate market and may be used to pay for imports and for cer- tain nontrade transactions. All exchange transac- tions that do not qualify for the certificate market are permitted freely in the draft market. All pay- ments that are eligible for the purchase of exchange certificates may alternatively be made through the draft market. The banks are required to quote a single rate for buying and selling certificates, but they may charge a commission of % of 1 per cent on certificate sales. On December 29, 1967 the certificate market rate was S/ 38.70 per US$1 and the draft market rate was S/ 38.90 buying, and S/39.10 selling, per US$1. Peru accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export licenses and exchange licenses permit- ting the use of certificates for nontrade transac- tions are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Exchange certificates are issued by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru. Exchange certificate trans- actions are carried out through commercial banks; draft market transactions are conducted freely through banks and various other dealers, or directly between sellers and buyers. For statistical purposes, banks and exchange dealers must inform the Superintendency of Banks of all purchases and sales of exchange. 1 On February 27, 1968, the va l id i ty of exchange cer- t i f i c a t es was reduced to th ree days. 340 Prescription of Currency All export proceeds must be received in con- vertible currencies; exchange certificates at present are only issued in U.S. dollars, but the central bank is empowered to issue certificates denominated in any convertible currency. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, and Paraguay may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Cuba are prohibited. The importation of a few commodities from any source is either prohibited or subject to license. All other imports are permitted freely.2 Imports under docu- mentary letters of credit or on a documentary col- lection basis, but not open account imports, are paid with certificates or drafts. The use of certifi- cates for import payments takes place through commercial banks, which must ensure that certifi- cate exchange is used to pay for actual imports and not for unauthorized purposes. A maritime freight tax of 4 per cent of the ocean freight charges is levied on goods imported by sea other than certain agricultural and medical products, books, and coins. Payments for Invisibles Exchange licenses are required in order to use certificates to pay for invisibles. The transactions in invisibles that are eligible for the certificate market include government payments and pay- ments by foreign companies in respect of the fol- lowing: remittance of profits, head office expenses, remuneration of technicians hired abroad, and other contractual obligations, whether already con- tracted or to be contracted in the fu ture. Exchange 2 W i th effect f rom March 1, 1968, Decree No. 053-68- HC of February 29, 1968 prohibited for a period of three mon ths the importation of a large number of consumer du rab le goods and other commodities considered nones- sential. It also placed a m in imum 12-year repayment period on new credit contracted by public entities, except for seasonal credit requ iremen ts of the State banks, and prohibited foreign exchange guarantees for domestic bank credit extended in local currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for payments that are not eligible for exchange certificates may be freely obtained in the d ra ft market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Cuba are prohibited. All exports are subject to license to assure the necessary sup- ply of export proceeds to the certificate market. Export proceeds must be received in U.S. dollars and must be surrendered within 3 days of receipt when exports are made against letter of credit or within 30 days of shipment in all other cases. Exports of minerals, petroleum, coffee, sugar, and co t ton3 are subject to payment of 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which is chargeable against fu tu re payments of profit tax; the requirement is to expire on March 31, 1969. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles are free of control and may be sold in the d ra ft marke t. Capital In addition to government payments, certain capital payments on private account may be effected through the certificate market. All other capital payments may be effected freely through the d ra ft market, in which inward and outward capital transfers by residents and nonresidents may be effected without control. New investments must be registered with the Directorate-General of Com- merce, Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Law No. 13270 of November 30, 1959, the Industrial Promotion Law, provides that the Executive may raise import duties on foreign products to encour- age and develop existing or new industries. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, in Peru or abroad. Residents and nonresidents may freely import and export gold in any form. Imports of gold by the monetary authorities and by authorized industrial and pro- fessional users, and all exports of gold, are settled in the certificate market. Payment for all other purchases of gold abroad must be made through the d r a ft market. 3 Cotton was exempted with effect from Ap r il 1, 1968 by v ir tue of Article 116 of Law No. 16960 of Ma rch 21, 1968. PERU Changes during 1967 January 1. Exports of fishmeal required a spe- cific license. March 10. Decree No. 22 made imports of corn and its substitutes subject to license. March 31. Decree No. 204 created a new policymaking body, the Supreme Council for For- eign Trade and Integration. The Council's charter was established on May 8, 1967. May 24. Circular No. 1229 of the Superin- tendency of Banks restricted the access of listed foreign companies in Peru to local bank financing. June 2. The Central Reserve Bank announced that it would sell U.S. dollars forward through commercial banks for up to 90 days' delivery to foreign subsidiaries and other firms that had been affected by Circular No. 1229 of the Superinten- dency of Banks. This practice was discontinued in July. June 7. Import duties on a wide range of com- modities were increased substantially by Decree No. 137-H of June 5. The scope of import duty concessions granted under the Industrial Promo- tion Law was reduced. July 31. Resolution No. 672-H established a list of m in imum c.i.f. prices (aforos) on which import duties would be based. August 1. Decree No. 187-H abrogated the De- cree of March 11, 1953 that had prohibited all trade with centrally planned economies. Trade with Cuba, however, remained prohibited. August 29. Decree No. 217-H deferred for 12 months the payment of most taxes on exports of fishmeal. September 1. The Central Reserve Bank of Peru suspended its operations in the foreign exchange market. The exchange rate was allowed to fluctuate freely in response to market forces. September 4. The Superintendency of Banks declared a moratorium on payments in respect of credit instruments expressed in foreign currencies and held by commercial banks. September 4. A tax of 40 per cent was imposed by Decree No. 219-H on the difference between actual export proceeds in soles at the prevailing market rate of exchange and the amount that would have resulted f rom conversion of export 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU proceeds at the old rate of S/ 26.82 per U.S. dollar. The tax was collected by the customs at the time of shipment. The decree was rescinded by Decree No. 227-H on September 14. September 18. The fishmeal industry was granted a five-year exemption from most export taxes. September 20. Circular No. 1248 of the Super- intendency of Banks announced the lifting, with effect from September 25, of the moratorium on payments in respect of credit instruments in foreign currencies held by banks. September 29. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the Central Bank of Brazil. It would take effect on January 1, 1968. October 5. Decree No. 241-H reintroduced a dual exchange market with effect from October 9, 1967, by rescinding the Decree of May 16, 1960 that had suspended Law No. 10905 of 1948 and Law No. 11208 of 1949 providing for an exchange certificate system. October 5. All exports required licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance and all export pro- ceeds had to be surrendered against exchange cer- tificates. Before granting an export license, the Ministry of Finance required evidence that an irre- vocable credit had been opened at a commercial bank in Peru, or that a draft had been given to a commercial bank for collection; the shipping docu- ments had to be submitted within five days after shipment. The Central Reserve Bank would issue exchange certificates corresponding to the export proceeds surrendered, which were valid for a period fixed by the Superintendency of Banks (ini- tially set at five days) and were negotiable through the commercial banks by endorsement. The cer- tificates could be sold by the Central Reserve Bank, by exporters, and by commercial banks; the latter were permitted to charge a commission of l/4 of 1 per cent. Certificates could be denomin- ated in any convertible currency, but in fact were issued only in U.S. dollars. The certificates could be used in payment of imports and related invisi- bles, and, by foreign companies only and subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance, for remittances in respect of profits, depreciation, depletion, and specified other purposes, including repayment of debts, but only to the extent that the 342 certificates arose from the foreign companies' own exports; the Government could use certificates to service its foreign debt and to make other official payments including import payments. Certificates could be purchased by commercial banks and by importers; the Government, however, had a prefer- ential buying right that could be exercised through the Central Reserve Bank. If certificates had not been utilized during the period of validity fixed by the Superintendency of Banks, they would be acquired by the Central Reserve Bank at a dis- count of 2 per cent on the average net exchange rate of the day prior to their expiry. All payments and receipts not eligible for exchange certificates could be effected freely through a free foreign exchange market referred to as the draft market. Any currency could be negotiated in the d ra ft market. Outward payments that were permitted to be made through the certificate market, including import payments, could also be made through the draft market. October 9. The dual market system came into operation. The Central Reserve Bank sold cer- tificates at S/ 38.70 per US$1. October 30. Decree No. 263-H provided that commercial banks could only utilize exchange cer- tificates for import payments if they carried out the related banking procedures themselves and required the banks to present the original export documents to the Central Reserve Bank to be stamped. Commercial banks were required to keep balanced positions separately in certificate market exchange and draft market exchange. November 9. Law No. 16710 introduced, until March 31, 1969, a tax of 10 per cent, as an advance on the profit tax and the complementary income tax, on the f.o.b. value of all exports other than fishmeal, fish oil, and a few other com- modities. November 11. Decree No. 274-H established that all public entities had to declare their out- standing obligations in foreign currencies to the Ministry of Finance. The corresponding payments were to be settled at the certificate rate through the Banco de la Nation. November 17. Decree No. 281-H exempted public development banks from the provisions of Decree 274-H. Public entities were required to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU sell all proceeds from foreign credits to the Cen- tral Reserve Bank. November 17. Decree No. 282-H established that amortization payments on foreign loans could only be made through the certificate market up to the amount of foreign exchange sold to the Central Reserve Bank by the debtor. Obligations incurred before October 9 could be met through the certifi- cate market only by exporters and debtors engaged in public services. December 1. Decree No. 291-H provided that exemption f rom import duties could only be granted for commodities transported by Peruvian ships or aircraft or by associated enterprises, whether foreign or national. The requirement would not be applied to imports covered by inter- national agreements. The decree would take effect 90 days after issuance. It was subsequently amended by Decree No. 2-H of January 5, 1968 and would enter into force on June 1, 1968. 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.227864 gram of fine gold per Philippine Peso or f 3.90 = US$1. The official limits established by the Central Bank of the Philippines for its dealings with banks are f 3.8805 buying, and f 3.9195 selling, per US$1. In spot transactions with their customers, author- ized agent banks are permitted to quote minimum and maximum buying rates of f 3.8610 and F 3.9195 per U.S. dollar, and minimum and maximum selling rates of f 3.8805 and f 3.9390 per U.S. dollar, respectively. Exchange rates for other authorized currencies purchased by the Central Bank are based on the spot buying or selling rates in New York for the currency con- cerned at the close of the day prior to the actual purchase in Manila, and the Central Bank's cur- rent spot buying or selling rates for the U.S. dollar. Premiums and discounts on forward exchange transactions are, in principle, left to the inter- play of market forces, but the Central Bank engages in forward exchange transactions (up to 90 days) with authorized agent banks at the interbank spot rate with fixed premiums. Certain firms which before January 19, 1962 with the prior approval of the Monetary Board contracted loans or incurred deferred payments obligations for imports of capital equipment at a rate not exceeding F 3.20 per US$1 are allowed to liquidate these obligations by buying foreign exchange from authorized agent banks at the official rate of f 3.90 per US$1, with the Central Bank refunding the difference. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank issues circulars and memoranda to the authorized agent banks on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Monetary Board. Prescription of Currency The Philippines maintains a bilateral payments agreement with Indonesia, which at present is inactive; payments for imports covered by the trade agreement with that country are made directly between the two central banks. There are 344 no prescription of currency requirements for out- going payments, but all exchange proceeds from exports must be obtained in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the name of nonresidents, whether individual or corporate, without the prior approval of the Central Bank. They may be opened virtually without restriction, except in respect of arbitrage operations. Nonresident accounts are permitted to be credited only with the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income from, or peso proceeds of conversion of, properties (real or personal) located in the Philippines and belong- ing to nonresidents. Orders to pay against, or withdrawals from, nonresident accounts which would involve the remittance of foreign exchange for the purpose of capital transfers and/or trans- fers of earnings, profits, and dividends to nonresi- dents are permitted, provided that application forms and necessary supporting evidence as re- quired are submitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of certain agricultural com- modities from any source are prohibited for pro- tective reasons. There are no other restrictions on imports. Imports in excess of US$100 must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the date of shipment, with the exception of commodities exempt from advance deposit and certain "no-dollar" imports (imports financed by importers' own foreign exchange or not involving payments from the Philippines). Imports from Indonesia must be covered by an irrevocable letter of credit in U.S. dollars. Cash margin deposits are required on the opening of import letters of credit, as follows: 25 per cent for essential con- sumer and producer goods; 50 per cent for semi- essential producer goods; 75 per cent for semi- essential consumer and nonessential producer goods; and 150 per cent for luxury items and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution nonessential consumer goods. Exempted from the cash margin deposit requirements are imports of raw materials by selected local industries, prime consumer goods under the essential consumer cate- gory, certain f a rm machinery and equipment, fun- gicides, insecticides, certain "no-dollar" imports, and imports under U.S. Public Law 480. Com- modities which are exempted from cash margin deposit requirements may be financed by means of documents against payments (D /P) or documents against acceptance (D /A) for a period not exceeding 180 days for producers or not exceed- ing 90 days for importers. Furthermore, imports of raw materials required by local industries also exempted from the cash margin deposits may be financed under an open account arrangement payable by demand d ra ft (D /D ), mail transfer (M /T ), or telegraphic transfer (T /T) within 180 days after the issuance of the release certifi- cate by the authorized agent bank concerned. Banks may sell exchange to settle the resulting obligations, but their mon th ly sales for this pur- pose must not exceed their average monthly sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1967. Capital goods purchased under contracts dated June 26, 1967 or before may be imported without covering letters of credit whether the shipment had left the port of origin before June 26 or not. Before goods can be cleared through the customs, the importer must present, as a rule, a release certificate issued by the Central Bank through an authorized agent bank to show that all customs duties, taxes, and other levies assessed by the Bureau of Customs, which are payable upon importation of the merchandise, have been collected by the authorized agent bank. Certain "no-dollar" imports are exempted from the release certificate requirement. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles other than for travel may be made freely. However, an application to purchase foreign exchange exceeding US$100 requires a sworn statement concerning the purpose of such purchase; for profit and dividend remit- tances, supporting documentation must also be submitted to the bank selling the exchange. The basic allowance for travel is US$50 a day for each traveler. Prior to his departure, a traveler is per- mitted to purchase up to US$1,500 (equivalent PHILIPPINES to a 30-day stay abroad) from authorized com- mercial banks. When the traveler stays abroad for more than 30 days, an additional allowance of US$50 a day may be remitted to him, provided that the amount does not exceed US$1,500 for every 30-day period; there is no limit to the num- ber of times this additional allowance may be remitted. There is no restriction on the amount of domestic currency that resident or nonresident travelers may take out. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency up to the amount of the basic travel allowance, and nonresident travel- ers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had previously brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are generally not restricted, but they are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks issue the necessary export permits upon receipt of the exporter's report of foreign sales. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and economic devel- opment are prohibited. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a draft drawn in one of the prescribed currencies and unless col- lection of the proceeds will be undertaken by an authorized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or mail trans- fer may be allowed. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. Proceeds from exports must be received in the prescribed currencies within 60 days from the date of shipment (or within such period as may be established in special cases) and surrendered within 10 days. An irrevocable letter of credit is required for exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut oil, and for all exports to Guam, Hong Kong, the Republic of China, and Japan. Exports of perish- able commodities to Hong Kong require pre- paymen t. Exports to Indonesia must be invoiced in U.S. dollars. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may either be retained by the recipient or sold by him to authorized agent banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic currency. Capital There are no restrictions on capital movements. However, in the case of sales of foreign exchange for capital transfers (repatriation of investments of nonresident investors, overseas investments of Philippine residents, or transfers of assets of pro- spective em igran ts), authorized agent banks must request the applicant to substantiate by means of documentary evidence (such as income tax returns, deeds of sale, and financial statements) that the remittance sought is in fact intended for the purpose stated in the application. Also, all applicants for foreign exchange exceeding US$100 must submit a sworn statement concerning the purpose of the payment. Commercial banks or other institutions may extend or receive credit abroad to finance bona fide foreign transactions. The Central Bank controls and limits the use of stand-by letters of credit when the facilities are to be used to meet financing requirements in Philippine currency, rather than for trade or production purposes. Under the Investment Incentives Act of 1967, all investors and enterprises are guaranteed the right to repatriate their investments, and to remit earnings thereon and sums needed to meet pay- ments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom from expropria- tion and requisition. There are different arrange- ments for "pioneer investments" and "preferred investments"; the former are granted certain incen- tives over and above those given to "preferred investments." Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by foreigners are permitted to operate only in "pio- neer areas of investment," and normally at least 60 per cent of the voting capital stock of regis- tered enterprises in "preferred areas of invest- ment" (mainly investments related to the exploita- tion of export-oriented natural resources and the manufac tur ing of import substitutes) must be owned by Philippine nationals. By virtue of the Laurel-Langley Agreement, U.S. citizens, corpora- 346 tions, and associations are given the same status for this purpose as Philippine citizens until July 1974. Gold Producers of gold must sell their output to the Central Bank; with this exception, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm in the Philippines. Residents other than the mone- tary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to purchase abroad gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1967 January 1. Imports from all countries were required to be accompanied by a shipper's export declaration. This requirement was rescinded on July 17, 1967 for imports from the United States, and on September 1, 1967 for imports from all other countries. February 10. Foreign borrowing by private firms or individuals for the purpose of generating pesos could be covered by stand-by letters of credit issued by the commercial banks, provided that the proceeds would be used for the promo- tion, development, or expansion of export indus- tries or for the financing of projects coming under Priority I of Central Bank Circular No. 223 dated June 25, 1966, and that amortization of such obligations would be spread out over an agreed period (Central Bank Circular No. 236 ). May 16. Regulations went into effect ensur- ing a m in imum ratio of 60 per cent Filipino ownership in enterprises engaged in the exploita- tion of natural resources. June 23. All applications for the purchase of foreign exchange for invisibles in the amount of more than US$100 were required to be accompa- nied by a sworn statement of the purpose of such purchase. (Previously, this was required only for applications for purchases in excess of US$5,000.) Commercial banks were prohibited from selling foreign exchange for pesos tendered by or on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution behalf of nonresidents of the Philippines in the course of so-called arbitrage operations. June 26. Commercial banks were required to maintain at least a one-to-one ratio between their actual foreign exchange assets (excluding forward exchange purchases, customers' liability accept- ance, and deferred payments) and foreign exchange liabilities (excluding forward exchange sales), by virtue of Central Bank Circular No. 240. This provision took effect immediately in regard to liabilities incurred after June 26, 1967. For deficiencies arising from transactions prior to June 26, 1967 the ratio of one to one was to be complied with by October 26, 1967, provided that one four th of the deficiency on June 26, 1967 was covered by July 26, 1967, one fourth by August 26, 1967, one fourth by September 26, 1967, and one four th by October 26, 1967. All imports valued at more than US$100 must be covered by letters of credit. However, all import shipments which had already left the port of origin under documents against payment, docu- ments against acceptance, or open account arrangements could be liquidated in accordance with the terms and conditions governing their original importation (Central Bank Circular No. 243 ). Under a gentlemen's agreement signed by the Central Bank and the members of the Bankers' Association of the Philippines, authorized agent banks agreed to require a cash margin deposit on the opening of import letters of credit, ranging from 25 per cent to 150 per cent (25 per cent for consumer and producer goods considered essential, excluding rice, corn, and certain other foods; 50 per cent for semiessential producer goods; 75 per cent for semiessential consumer and nonessential producer goods; and 150 per cent for luxury items and nonessential consumer goods). Margin deposits were required to be held and to remain sterilized until the liquidation of the corresponding import bill. July 1. The Central Bank Classification of (Import) Commodities was revised. Under the revised classification, which was patterned basically after the SITC, consumer and producer goods were classified in (1) essential, (2) semi- essential, (3) nonessential, and (4) unclassified import categories. PHILIPPINES July 14. Foreign exchange liabilities arising after June 26, 1967 from the negotiation of usance letters of credit outstanding on June 26, 1967 and/or the refinancing of sight drafts drawn against letters of credit outstanding on June 26, 1967 were exempted from the one-to-one ratio provided for under Central Bank Circular No. 240 (dated June 26, 1967) until October 26, 1967, on condition that the liabilities resulting from refinancing sight drafts arose from "avail- ments" of the credit lines of the agent banks with their foreign correspondents existing on June 26, 1967. Imports of capital goods, machinery, and raw materials under perfected contracts or arrange- ments valid and subsisting on June 26, 1967 that were not covered by letters of credit were con- sidered as not coming under the provisions of Central Bank Circular No. 243 of June 26, 1967. For deferred payments transactions involving the importation of capital goods, machinery, and raw materials under the guarantee of the National Investment and Development Corporation or the Development Bank of the Philippines, the trans- actions had to be covered by letters of credit to the extent only of foreign exchange liabilities or payments due within 180 days. Imports under U.S. Public Law 480 were exempted from the cash margin deposit require- ments as well as from the 30 per cent letter of credit reserve requirements imposed on Septem- ber 3, 1965. Orders to pay against, or withdrawals from, nonresident accounts, when involving the remit- tance of foreign exchange, were prohibited, even when the transaction was not strictly an "arbi- trage" operation. This prohibition, however, did not apply to peso accounts of nonresidents of the Philippines against which remittances of foreign exchange could be made, provided that applica- tion forms and the necessary supporting evidence as required for the purchase of foreign exchange for capital transfers and/or for the remittance of earnings, profits, and dividends to nonresidents were submitted. Previously, nonresident peso accounts could be credited and debited freely for any purpose. July 19. Seven groups of raw materials imported by selected home industries and 57 kinds 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES of commodities listed under the essential con- sumer goods category were exempted from the cash margin deposit requirements on the opening of letters of credit. July 21. Certain "no-dollar" imports were exempted from the requirements regarding letters of credit and release certificates. August 3. Local automobile assemblers agreed voluntarily to reduce imports of automobile parts by 25 per cent. August 7. The Philippines signed the Declara- tion of Bangkok creating the Association of South- east Asian Nations (ASEAN). August 18. Four import items under the essen- tial producer goods category were exempted from the 25 per cent cash margin deposit requirement on the opening of letters of credit. August 29. All peso deposit accounts of non- residents, including foreign banks, maintained with banks operating in the Philippines, were allowed to be funded only by inward remittances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign cur- rencies; however, these accounts could still be credited with peso income from, or peso proceeds of conversion of, properties located in the Philip- pines (whether real or personal) and belonging to nonresidents of the Philippines. September 8. Iron and steel scrap were reclas- sified from the unclassified imports to the essen- tial producer goods category. September 15. Six groups of commodities under the semiessential producer goods category (tex- tile fibers, chemicals, dyeing materials, and refrac- tory and construction materials) were reclassified to the essential producer goods category. September 16. The Investment Incentives Act of 1967 was signed into law. It stipulated various benefits available to specified types of investors and industries. Only firms owned or controlled by Filipinos could qualify for registration in "pre- ferred industries." September 18. Foreign exchange liabilities created by the utilization for export and/or pre- export financing of foreign credit lines already established on June 26, 1967 were exempted from the one-to-one ratio as provided for under Cen- tral Bank Circular No. 240, on condition that 348 the utilized foreign credit lines were repayable from the proceeds of the corresponding export bills. October 5. Specified raw material imports were exempted from the 25 per cent cash margin deposit requirement. October 12. All letters of credit that were required to be opened to cover imports under the provisions of Central Bank Circular No. 243 of June 26, 1967 were required to be opened on or before the actual date of shipment. October 26. Central Bank Circular No. 252 provided the following. Commodities which were exempt from the cash margin deposit require- ments were permitted to be financed by means of documents against payments or documents against acceptance for a period not exceeding 180 days for producers or not exceeding 90 days for importers; letters of credit no longer were required for these goods. Furthermore, imports of raw materials required by local indus- tries and exempt from the cash margin deposits were permitted to be financed under an open account arrangement payable by demand draft, mail transfer, or telegraphic transfer within 180 days after the issuance of the release certificate by the authorized agent banks concerned. The amount of foreign exchange that authorized agent banks were permitted to sell for the payment of obligations arising from the above-mentioned arrangements was limited to their average monthly sales of foreign exchange for the same purpose during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1967. The one-to-one ratio requirement of June 26 concerning foreign exchange assets and foreign exchange liabilities of authorized agent banks was amended as follows, with effect from October 27: authorized agent banks were permitted to maintain at least 25 per cent of the required coverage of their foreign exchange liabilities in actual foreign exchange assets, and the balance in domestic assets in the form of treasury bills and notes, pro- vided that these liabilities did not exceed the value of their actual foreign exchange asset holdings on October 26, 1967. October 27. Authorized agent banks were required to limit the sale of travel funds to US$50 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES a traveler a trip for each day of stay outside the Philippines, up to a maximum of US$1,500 (equivalent to a 30-day stay abroad) prior to the applicant's departure, and to mark in the traveler's passport the amount of exchange sold. When the applicant stayed abroad for more than 30 days, an additional US$50 a day could be remitted to him, provided that the amount did not exceed US$1,500 for every 30-day period; there was no limit to the number of times this additional remit- tance could be made. November 28. A Central Bank memorandum to authorized agent banks provided the following. For purposes of implementing the limitation on monthly sales of foreign exchange in payment for imports financed through open accounts, docu- ments against payment, and documents against acceptance, as provided for under Central Bank Circular No. 252, banks could only exceed in any single month their average monthly sales of fiscal year 1966/67 if the sale of foreign exchange for a 12-month period did not go beyond the total amount sold during that fiscal year. December 11. The cash margin deposit requirements were lifted for certain agricultural machinery. December 29. Eleven commodities in the essential producer goods category were exempted from the cash margin deposit requirements. They included fungicides and insecticides. 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0309103 gram of fine gold per Portuguese Escudo or Esc 28.75 = US$1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar, the pound sterling, and the other quoted currenc iesl are based on the relative exchange rates in the inter- national exchange markets. For settlements with countries with which Portugal has bilateral pay- ments agreements,2 the U.S. dollar rate applies to transactions in "agreement dollars" ( for Greece, Israel, and Turkey) and fixed exchange rates apply to other agreement currencies. Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal. They are also allowed to deal in foreign exchange with banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange market. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in convertible currencies for their own account; their purchases and sales of bilateral agreement currencies are made for the account of the Bank of Portugal. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in foreign currencies and to obtain short- term credits abroad. Capital held abroad by residents in the fo rm of foreign exchange that is not subject to surrender requirements may be transferred to other residents at freely negotiated rates. There is no forward exchange market in opera- tion in Portugal, but authorized banks may enter into forward transactions with individual cus- tomers. The exchange rates for these transactions may not be higher than the spot buy ing rate or lower than the spot selling rate. The commercial banks may cover open positions by entering into swap transactions w i th the Bank of Portugal. Exchange Control Territory Portugal and the Portuguese overseas territories constitute a single exchange control territory, the 1 The quo ted cu r renc ies are A u s t r i an sch i l l ing s, Be lg ian f ranc s, Dan ish k r o n e r, deu tsche m a rk, F rench f r an c s, I t a l i an l i re, N e th e r l ands gu i ld e r s, No rweg ian k ron e r, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. do l la rs. 2 Po r tugal has b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts ag reemen ts w i th Czechos lovak ia, Ea s te rn Ge rmany, H u n g a r y, Is rae l, and Po land. Se t t lemen ts w i th Greece and T u r k ey a re also c h a n n e l ed t h r o u gh sp e c i al accoun t s. 350 Portuguese Monetary Area. The exchange control regulations of Portugal are for the most part applied un iform ly throughout the Area, and cur- rent payments between the various territories are made freely through multilateral clearing accounts. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Min- istry of Finance and the Bank of Portugal, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is formulated by the Com- mission of Economic Coordination in the Ministry of Economy. A Directorate-General of Com- merce in the Ministry of Economy administers the trade control; import and export licenses ("bul- letins") are issued by the Foreign Trade Division, operating within the office of the Directorate- General or by other executive departments duly authorized. Licenses for imports of certain goods included in the negative list are issued by economic coordination departments associated with the Min- istry of Economy. Prescription of Currency Transactions with countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements may be settled in any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal (see footnote 1) or, for Portu- guese exports, in escudos to the debit of a Demand Foreign Account in Escudos (see section on Non- resident Accounts, below). Transactions with countries with which Portugal has bilateral pay- ments agreements (see footnote 2) are settled through clearing accounts maintained in U.S. dol- lars ( for Greece, Israel, and Tu rk ey ), in pounds sterling ( for Po land ), or in escudos or the cur- rency of the partner country ( for Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, and Hung a ry ). In exceptional cases, payments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident accounts are as follows: "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of persons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution agreements or arrangements: These accounts are divided into (1) "Time Foreign Accounts in Escudos," for which the opening, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance authoriza- tion of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) "Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos," which may be opened, debited, and credited without prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal for (a) pay- ments for transactions expressed in escudos and duly authorized in that currency, for imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between metropolitan Portugal and foreign countries, (b) purchases or sales of escudos against the for- eign currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal, and (c) transfers between these accounts. For all other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the fo rm of overdrafts on the above accounts for periods of one year or less requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal. For periods longer than one year, authorization is required from the Inspectorate- General of Credit and Insurance with the agree- ment of the Bank of Portugal. "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of persons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements or arrangements: These accounts are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. There are also provisions for resident and non- resident accounts in foreign currencies, but these accounts are of limited importance. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited, mainly for sanitary reasons, for the protection of public order and morals, and for the prevention of trade frauds. Any physical or juridical entity may be an importer, the only requirement being that the importer pay income taxes regularly. Most imports consigned from and originating in the Portuguese overseas territories are free of restriction. In exceptional cases, a registration procedure is applied, for payment control pur- poses. Controls are also exercised to ensure that goods originating in foreign countries do not en ter Portugal via Macao. Certain products, such as sugar, cotton, some oilseed products, and a few PORTUGAL other goods may be imported freely from the Portuguese overseas territories but are subject to quantitative restrictions when imported from third countries. Practically all imports from outside the Portu- guese Monetary Area are effected on the basis of "bulletins." For imports free of quantitative restriction, the bulletin serves a statistical purpose and enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange as specified in the bulletin. For imports subject to restriction, the bulletin is equivalent to an import license. Goods not on the so-called negative list may be imported freely from most countries that are mem- bers of the GATT. The negative list includes cer- tain foodstuffs, other agricultural products, certain na tural or manufac tured raw materials, some tex- tile fibers, and a small number of finished products, including vehicles; the items on the negative list are subject to quantitative restrictions for pro- tective reasons. The liberalization does not apply, however, to Ghana, India, and Nigeria; imports from these GATT members of goods liberalized if imported from other GATT countries are sub- ject to individual authorization. Nonliberalized imports from countries that are GATT members are admitted either under global quotas or under individual authorization. There are bilateral quotas for specified agricultural imports f rom certain EFTA countries. Imports of nonliberalized industrial products are free of quantitative restriction when originating in EFTA countries. All imports from countries that are not members of the GATT are based on individual authorizations. Payments for Invisibles Payments to the Portuguese overseas territories for current invisibles may be made freely through authorized banks. Such payments to foreign coun- tries are also free of quantitative restrictions, but are subject to procedures which d i f fer in respect of the amounts of foreign exchange that authorized banks may grant freely for the various transactions. For payments to countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements, the authorized banks may grant any amount of foreign exchange for expenditures incidental to trade; up to the equivalent of Esc 50,000 per capita and 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL per annum for tourism; and up to the equivalent of Esc 100,000 for most transactions in invisibles not mentioned above, including income on imported capital. For payments to countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements, the authorized banks may effect freely payments for invisibles listed in the respective payments agreements. Application must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Travelers may take out freely domestic and foreign banknotes and foreign coins for their travel expenses. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bu l le t ins ). Export bulletins are issued freely, with few excep- tions; the primary purpose of this procedure is to enforce the prescription of currency and sur- render regulations. The export of a few domes- tically produced goods is restricted, mainly to assure adequate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Baggage and exports and re-exports of merchandise whose value does not exceed Esc 2,500 do not require a bulletin as long as they are not expressly excluded from this exemption. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank, within the period stipulated in the export bulletin, the total amount of the export proceeds, in the foreign exchange indicated in the bulletin. The Bank of Portugal may, however, authorize the deduction of commission expenses abroad, and freight, insurance, or other charges pertaining to exports, from the total amount of the export pro- ceeds subject to surrender. Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may receive freely pay- ments for invisibles from residents of countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral pay- ments agreements. Also, payments from residents of countries with which Portugal does have pay- ments agreements may be received freely for invisi- bles listed in the payments agreements. Receipts on account of all other payments for invisibles require authorization by the Bank of Portugal, 352 which is granted without restriction, once the pro- posed operation proves to be real and licit. Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in freely domestic and foreign banknotes and coins for their travel expenses. However, authorized banks are not per- mitted to receive or to pay out foreign banknotes or coins for the settlement of operations expressed in foreign currencies. Capital Capital transfers between Portugal and its over- seas territories are subject to prior authorization by the Inspectorate-General of Credit and Insur- ance; approval is also required from the authori- ties of the territory concerned. When the amount exceeds Esc 50 million, the approval of the Min- ister of Finance and of the Minister of Overseas Territories is required. For most types of trans- action, however, authorization to export from Portugal (and to import into the overseas terri- tory) is granted freely whenever the transaction is found to be a bona fide one. All capital movements between Portugal and other countries (excluding credits with a term of one year or less, which require approval by the Bank of Portugal) are subject to the prior authorization of the Inspectorate-General of Credit and Insurance; and for transactions exceeding Esc 10 million, the approval of the Minister of Finance is also required. Moreover, before grant- ing an authorization, the Inspectorate-General may request the advice of the Bank of Portugal on the monetary and foreign exchange aspects of the transaction involved. Foreign investments in Portugal from residents of countries that are members of or associated with the OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD are authorized freely if they involve activities that are of recognized interest for Portugal's development, that is, unless a speculative operation in real estate is involved. Certain activities, however, are reserved for enterprises having a majority of Portuguese capital; these include defense, public utilities, and fishing. The transfer abroad of the full proceeds from the liquidation of foreign invest- ment which originated in a bona fide inward capital movement from OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD countries is authorized. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign credits from OECD countries with a maturity of up to five years are liberalized when a Portuguese resident participates in the under- lying commercial or service transaction. The repayment of foreign credits and loans that origi- nated in a bona fide inward capital movement is always authorized. Investments outside the Portuguese Monetary Area by residents of Portugal are authorized only when the capital involved is not considered indis- pensable for the national economic development. In practice, authorization is granted only for small investments and for the improvement or enlarge- ment of existing Portuguese investments. Residents of Portugal may reinvest in securities, within time limits fixed by the authorities, the proceeds of the sale of other securities in an OECD country. They may also transfer such proceeds to other residents, provided that the proceeds do not belong to a Portuguese credit institution and that their owner is not under an obligation to surrender them to such an institution. Arbitrage operations in foreign securities carried out by residents of Portugal involving two other OECD countries or between Portugal and an OECD country are authorized freely; but if a transfer of foreign exchange to or from Portugal is involved, a prior authorization is required. Transfers by Portuguese nationals or by for- eigners resident in Portugal who emigrate to any other OECD country are authorized up to Esc 100,000 annually for a family. Transfers by foreign nationals who have been resident in Portu- gal are authorized up to Esc 500,000 a year for a fam i ly when they return to their country of origin. Transfers on account of bequests, inheri- tances, and dowries to other OECD countries are authorized up to Esc 500,000. For bequests, inheritances, and dowries exceeding this amount, annual transfers up to Esc 500,000 are authorized. In cases of bequests and inheritances, the legator or the deceased person must have been a resident of Portugal and the legatee or heir a resident of an OECD country at the time of the death. Gifts to relatives resident in OECD countries are author- ized when their value does not exceed Esc 28,750 a year. Transfers to OECD countries in respect of life insurance policies due from Portuguese insurers PORTUGAL are authorized in favor of the beneficiary when their value does not exceed Esc 500,000 for a capital sum, a reduced value, or an annuity certain, and Esc 50,000 for a surrender value. Capital movements and transfers of assets not enumerated in the preceding paragraphs and involving countries other than those mentioned above are authorized on the merits of each case. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in any form in Portugal. The purchase or sale of coined or uncoined gold, when carried out between metro- politan Portugal and foreign countries, is subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal whenever a resident of metropolitan Portugal takes part in the transaction or has an interest in it. The import, export, or re-export of coined or uncoined gold is also subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal. There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which nonresidents who are not resident in the Portuguese Monetary Area may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins; settlement must take place in patacas or U.S. dollars. In Macao, imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Finance. Changes during 1967 June 24. Decree-Law No. 47766 was published. It extended the customs surcharge in the overseas territories to all imports, irrespective of origin or port of shipment, and amended the rate of sur- charge to 3.5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. July 1. The global quotas for the period to June 30, 1968 went into effect for imports of industrial products originating in GATT countries that are not members of EFTA. August 2. The special account previously maintained for certain transactions with Cuba was closed. September 7. Decree-Law No. 47908 was published, which improved the existing export credit scheme and regulated the insurance of export credits. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL September 7. Decree-Law No. 47909 was published. It created, in the Bank of Portugal, a service designed to centralize the information con- cerning the risks associated with the granting of bank credit. September 7. Decree-Law No. 47913 was published, which granted an amnesty up to that date to persons who, on their own behalf, had infringed the regulations concerning the export of private capital. The amnesty did not cover persons who had acted as intermediaries in such infringements or who had cooperated in any way in the illegal export of capital. September 8. Decree-Law No. 47917 was pub- lished. Greater flexibility was introduced in certain overseas operations of the commercial banks with a view to facilitating payments between the various Portuguese territories. September 23. It was announced that Angola and Mozambique had been granted loans from the Monetary Fund of the Escudo Area to facili- tate payments to the metropolitan area. November 27. The official exchange rate of the Macao pataca was changed from P 5.75 = US$1 to P 6.0527 = US$1. 354 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00888671 gram of fine gold per Rwanda Franc or RF 100 = US$1. The National Bank of Rwanda (the central b ank) has established official limits based on par values for the U.S. dollar and for other convertible curren- cies; those for the U.S. dollar are RF 99.25 buy ing and RF 100.75 selling. The authorized banks' rates may fluctuate freely between these limits. The National Bank maintains official quotations within these limits for the U.S. dollar and certain other currenc ies ;l the official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were RF 99.50 and RF 100.50, respectively, on December 31, 1967. There is a free market for transactions in bank- notes. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the National Bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange policy and foreign trade policy are determined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Commit- tee, which comprises the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the National Bank, and five other members. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments may be made in any cur- rency; receipts must be obtained in one of the cur- rencies quoted and specified by the National Bank (see footnote 1). Most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments A few imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources for reasons of public policy. Most imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports except baggage and household effects of travelers and merchandise valued up to RF 20,000 require licenses; these are issued freely and serve statistical 1 These are l is ted as A u s t r i an sch i l l ing s, Be lg ian f rancs, Canad ian do l lars, Dan i sh k rone r, deu tsche m a r k, French f rancs, I t a l i an l i re, Japanese yen, K enya sh i l l ing s, Ne the r- lands gu i lde rs, No rweg ian k rone r, Po r tugue se escudos, Spanish pesetas, pounds s te r l ing, Swedish k rone r, Swiss f rancs, Tanzan ia s h i l l i n g s, Uganda s h i l l i n g s, and U.S. do l l a r s. purposes only. Before orders are placed, applica- tions for import licenses for all other goods must be submitted to the National Bank through an authorized bank on a form entitled Import License and Payments Authorization (Modele / ). The approval of an import license application consti- tutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. An open general license permits the importation of certain petroleum products and butane gas by specified companies. Import licenses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The num- ber and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clearance form, called the Consumption Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the National Bank by the customs office. Payments for imports in principle cannot be made prior to the arrival of the goods in Rwanda. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the National Bank is required for all payments for invisibles; such approval is normally given in all cases where no illegal outflow of capital seems to be involved. Foreign exchange is sold by the National Bank, through the authorized banks, for transport, insur- ance, and other expenses connected with imports and exports; for transfers of the salaries or wages af ter income tax of foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract; for transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self- employed or are engaged in a profession or estab- lished as independent traders; and for salaries of foreigners traveling abroad on leave. Net profits and dividends due to nonresidents may be remitted abroad in full, subject to the right of the National Bank to prescribe their transfer in installments. Nonresidents may transfer their net income from rents (af ter deduction of taxes and a provision of 20 per cent for maintenance), and residents of foreign nationality may remit two thirds of such net income; the National Bank, however, may limit the amounts so transferable. With permission from the National Bank, resi- dents may purchase tickets for travel abroad in Rwanda francs. Purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Remittances for payments for certain other 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic banknotes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the National Bank to take out foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of oil and oil products to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports, except trade samples, baggage and household effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange (Modele E). For coffee exports, the Declaration must be pre- sented to an authorized bank for certification; Declarations for other exports are certified by the National Bank. A Declaration is valid for a period of three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. For exports to Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda payments must be collected not later than 30 days after the goods have left the country; for exports to all other countries, this period is 120 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surren- dered to the authorized bank within 8 days from their collection.2 Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles of RF 5,000 or more must be surrendered to the authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. All claims must be collected within 30 days from the date on which they become payable. 2 W i th effect f rom Feb rua ry 20, 1968, all export decla- rations, including those for coffee, required the visa of the Na t ional Bank. Travelers may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Such approval is rarely given unless the transfer relates to a foreign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment Law of May 4, 1964, or to the assets of a foreign national returning to his own country. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Rwanda. Imports and exports of gold require licenses and are normally made only by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1967 January 11. Bank transfers became the only permitted method of payment to foreign countries. January 12. The nontransferable part of rental income was required to be deposited in a blocked account to be used for tax payments and main- tenance expenditures. February 13. The importation from Rhodesia of mining products, tobacco, sugar, meat and meat products, and hides and skins was prohibited. All activities were prohibited that facilitated the export of these products by Rhodesia, as were all trans- actions in respect of any of these products when shipped from Rhodesia, including any transfer of funds to Rhodesia in connection with such activi- ties or transactions. The participation in any manner in the supply of oil or oil products to Rhodesia was prohibited. 356 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.197482 gram of fine gold per Saudi Arabian riyal or SRls 4.50 = US$1. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency sells U.S. dollars to banks at the par value rate, and this serves as the basis for exchange quotations in the market. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks at the appropriate cross rate. There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Saudi Arabia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. All imports from Israel are prohibited. Goods not exempt from import duty are subject to a sur- charge of 10 per cent of the applicable customs duty. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. All exports to Israel and the re-export of certain imported items benefiting f rom government subsidy are pro- hibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs duty or tax, import and export gold in any form. Changes during 1967 June 6. Exports of oil to all countries were suspended. The suspension was revoked on June 12, but a ban was imposed on those exports to the United Kingdom and the United States; this ban was lifted on September 2. 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL Exchange System No par value for the currency of Senegal has been established with the Fund. The un it of cur- rency is the CFA Franc, which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afri- que de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting from the relation CFAF 1 = F 0.02 plus or m inus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Forward exchange transactions, which are permitted in any currency, except the currencies of Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa, and for any period, take place at freely negotiated rates. Domestic and foreign transactions in the currencies of Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited; other- wise, there are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings, whether spot or forward, by residents or nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. With the exceptions noted below, there are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements, although certain controls are applied to borrowing abroad, to issues and sales of foreign securities in Senegal, and to inward and outward direct investment (see section on Capital, below). All settlements with Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited; settle- ments with Guinea and Mali, with which Senegal has concluded bilateral payments agreements, must in principle be made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars and French francs, respectively. In practice, settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area are usually made through correspondent banks in France, either in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange marke t —or in French f rancs; settle- ments with other countries of the French Franc Area are usua l ly made in currencies of that Area, in practice mainly in French francs. The following is applicable to payments and transactions between Senegal and all foreign coun- tries 2 except Guinea, Mali, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, which may be held in Senegal or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in CFA francs or in any foreign currency may be held in Senegal by any nonresident. Balances on nonresident accounts may be trans- ferred freely to any type of resident or nonresi- dent account and used for any payment in Senegal or abroad, including the purchase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment, includ- ing any amount of interest. There are no restric- tions on imports or exports of foreign or domestic securities. Imports and exports of gold are con- trolled and restricted; these require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Senegal's control measures affecting inward and outward direct investment and borrowing abroad do not apply to relations with ( 1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzav i l le), Gabon, and the Malagasy Repub l ic), provided that they accord Senegal reciprocity in respect of freedom of payments and transfers.3 Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Senegal, inward and out- ward direct investment, and imports and exports of gold. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, 1 The CFA f r a nc is issued by the B anque C e n t r a le des E ta ts de 1 'A f r ique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the com- mon cu r rency in Dahomey, Ivo ry Coast, M a u r i t a n i a, N ige r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta. - Foreign coun t r i es are def ined as all coun t r ies o ther t h an Senegal. 3 Early in 1968, Ma li also established an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury and liberalized its exchange con t ro l. 358 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the postal administration, any informa- tion necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All settlements between Senegal and Guinea and Mali must be approved by the Minister of Finance, and all commercial trans- actions with Guinea by the Minister of Commerce. All banks in Senegal are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance. Import certificates for liberal- ized commodities are made out by the importer himself. The Senegalese Agricultural Marketing Agency (Office de commercialisation agricole du Senegal—OCAS) has a monopoly over exports of groundnuts and imports of white rice and has authority to import certain other essential food- s tu f f s. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Portuguese, Rhodesian, and South African origin and/or provenance are prohibited. The import of a number of goods is prohibited from any source. The import from any source of a number of other commodities is subject to indi- vidual licensing. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area other than Guinea or Mali are generally free of license and quantitative restric- tion; some goods, although free from import license, require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce. Certificates of importation provide for the import of certain goods f rom OECD coun- tries or EEC countries without quantitative restric- tions; the liberalization list for the EEC countries is more extensive than that for the OECD coun- tries. A joint French-Senegalese Committee estab- lishes minimum amounts for imports of goods from the French Franc Area. There is an annual program for imports from all other countries. The import program is put into effect through indi- vidual licenses, which are required for most com- modities. Licenses are issued only to authorized traders and to industrial and agricultural produc- ers. The program contains global quotas for imports from the EEC countries except France and for imports f rom all countries outside the French Franc Area. The latter quotas may also be used for imports f rom EEC countries other than SENEGAL France. There is a separate global quota for imports of certain textiles f rom countries with abnormal competitive advantages. For imports from Guinea and Mali, an import license entitles the importer to purchase the neces- sary exchange, provided that the required docu- ments to prove that the goods have been shipped are submitted to an authorized bank. Payments for imports from all other countries may be made freely, at any time, and without any formality. Commodity fu tures may be dealt in freely, in Senegal or abroad. Payments for Invisibles With the exception of payments to (1) Guinea and Mali (which require prior approval by the Minister of Finance) and ( 2) Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica (which are prohibited), all pay- ments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in domestic and foreign banknotes. However, persons normally resident in Senegal, when traveling to a country that is not a member of the West A f r ican Mone- tary Union, must declare to the customs authori- ties at the point of exit the amount of BCEAC banknotes they are carrying if this amount exceeds CFAF 150,000. Travelers also may freely take out up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomina- tion or face value. Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds t u n n y ), exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Most exports to othei countries require licenses, mainly in order tc assure adequate supplies for the domestic needs of Senegal and to prevent certain re-exports. All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. With the exception of exports to Guinea and Mali, exports are free of exchange controls. The repatriation and surrender of export proceeds is not required. Exporters may grant credit for any period and are free to sell forward their anticipated export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Except in relations with Guinea, 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL Mali, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa, there are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents and the proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes. Travelers may also bring in up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomina- tion or face value. Capital All capital movements between Senegal and Guinea and Mali are subject to authorization by the Minister of Finance, and those between Sene- gal and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The situation in respect of other coun- tries is as follows. Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license, through banks or any other channel. Foreign and domestic securities of all types may be imported or exported freely, whether through the intermediary of a bank or not, and transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic and foreign real estate (except when forming part of a direct invest- men t) are unrestricted. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation and may (except when forming part of a direct investment) be freely disposed of. Certain controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward direct invest- ment, and over the issue, offering for sale, or intro- duction of foreign securities in Senegal, but these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts; with the exception of those over the sale of foreign securities in Senegal, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account. Foreign direct investments in Senegal4 and Senegalese direct investments abroad 5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance when such investments are being made, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvest- ment of undistributed profits. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion, during which he may request the postpone- ment of the projects submitted to him. Both the making and the liquidating of direct investments, whether these are Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days follow- ing each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issue or offering for sale of foreign securi- ties in Senegal requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, as do issues by Senegalese companies. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Senegalese Gov- ernment, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Senegal has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Senegal, or by branches or subsidiaries in Senegal of jurid- ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; ( 2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the per- sons or firms mentioned above, or with the financ- ing of commercial transactions either between Senegal and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that 4 Including those made by companies in Senegal that are d irec t ly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Senegal of foreign companies. 5 Including investments made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Senegal. 360 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be notified to the Minister of Finance within 20 days, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad is not subject to authorization or declaration. Banks in Senegal may freely grant overdrafts on nonresident accounts for any period. In accordance with the Investment Code of March 22, 1962, as amended on May 19, 1965, the purpose of which is to encourage domestic and foreign private investment in projects which conform to Senegal's Four-Year Development Plan, an investor may sign a special founding agreement (convention d'etablissement) with the Government by which he receives certain legal, financial, and other assurances in return for his commitment to carry out a certain program. A convention d'etablissement is extended only to domestic and foreign investors who propose a m in imum investment over three years of CFAF 500 million. Such enterprises may be granted an assurance of unchanged taxation. Furthermore, firms proposing a program that either involves a minimum investment of CFAF 40 million in three years, or creates at least 40 permanent jobs for Senegalese workers and s taff, may be accorded the designation of priority enter- prises; as such, they are eligible for considerable tax privileges. The corresponding minima for investments outside the Cap Vert region are CFAF 20 million invested or 20 jobs created. Gold Residents are free to hold gold in any form, at home or abroad. They are also free to acquire and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold require prior authori- zation by the Ministry of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO, ( 2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated a r t ic les ), (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles (other than coins and bars) whose combined weight does not exceed 500 grams, and (4) imports and SENEGAL exports of up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold are subject to a tax of 25 per cent. Changes during 1967 March 6. Decision No. 3122 provided that import licenses for wheat flour would not be issued except after consultation with the domestic millers. April 28. Decree No. 67-463 prohibited all imports originating in or shipped from Rhodesia and all exports with Rhodesia as their destination. May 1. Imports of refined sugar became subject to a variable "equalization" tax (taxe de perequa- tion) based on day-to-day prices for raw sugar on the Paris terminal market. May 4. Senegal signed the Protocol of Associa- tion for the establishment of a West African Eco- nomic Community. May 16. Decree No. 67-507 required a prior declaration to the Ministry of Commerce for imports from all sources of newspapers, periodi- cals, and books, of certain other printed matter, and of cardboard boxes and packing materials. July 1. Law No. 67-33 of June 30, 1967 estab- lished the principle that financial relations with foreign countries were free. With minor excep- tions, all existing legislation contrary to this prin- ciple was revoked. Previously, current and capital payments to all French Franc Area countries except Mali already were unrestricted; they were also free of control, as were inward transfers originating in French Franc Area countries other than Mali. The law also provided for the statistical registration of all inward and outward payments. Normally, the repatriation and surrender of claims, earnings, and proceeds accruing abroad would no longer be required. Import and export regulations were not affected, although certain exchange control formalities were abolished; these included the requirements that import licenses and import certificates be domiciled with an authorized bank, and that exporters sign a foreign exchange commitment in respect of all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL July 1. Decree No. 67-763 of June 30, 1967 established the principal rules for the application of Law No. 67-33. The decree defined the con- cept of "foreign countries" and indicated the types of capital transaction with foreign countries that would be subject either to declaration or prior approval. It also provided that the import and export of gold, with certain exceptions, required prior approval by the Minister of Finance and that the import and export of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO were free, with the proviso that residents traveling to countries outside the West African Monetary Union must declare to the customs any amount in BCEAO notes carried if that amount exceeded CFAF 150,000. The importation of Guinean and Malian banknotes ceased to be prohibited. Imports and exports of nonmonetary gold remained subject to Ordinance No. 60-21 of October 1, 1960. July 1. Decree No. 67-764 of June 30, 1967 created a Balance of Payments Committee charged with periodically constructing a national balance of payments. For this purpose, the BCEAO was authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the postal administration, any information necessary to com- pile the balance of payments statistics. October 12. Law No. 67-47 created the Sene- galese Agricultural Marketing Agency (Office de commercialisation agricole du Senegal or OCAS) as successor to a similar agency (OCA). It was given a monopoly over exports of groundnuts and over imports of white rice. 362 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.06641 gram of fine gold per Leone or Le 1 = US$1.20. The Bank of Sierra Leone stands ready in transactions with commer- cial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for sterling at the rate of Le 1 = <£ stg. 0 10s. Od., subject to a max imum commission of 1 per cent on either side. The authorized banks in Sierra Leone base their rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar and the pound sterling on the current Lon- don market rates. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Min- istry of Finance. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for permitted imports and, in small amounts, for traveling expenses. The Bank of Sierra Leone has power to direct payments into Blocked Accounts. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Sierra Leone is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with other Sterling Area countries may be made freely in sterling or any other Ster- ling Area currency.1 Authorized payments to and receipts from Guinea must be channeled through a clearing account established under the terms of a bilateral payments agreement with that country. Authorized payments to other countries outside the Sterling Area (except Rhodesia), including pay- ments for imports, may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account in Sierra Leone, in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any other non- Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds. Receipts from other countries outside the Sterling Area (except Rhodesia) may be obtained in ster- ling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in leones from an External Account in 1 In th is survey, the expression "Sterling Area" means the "Scheduled Territories" as defined in Sierra Leone's exchange control regulations, i.e., the Sterling Area except South A f r ica. Sierra Leone, or in any specified currency. - Receipts from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may also be obtained in any currency of a country outside the Sterling Area that is freely exchangeable for Sierra Leonean currency or sterling. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are desig- nated External Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhode- sian pounds by nonresidents. They may be debited for any payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds. Rhode- sian Accounts are accounts with banks in Sierra Leone conducted in the name of persons resident in Rhodesia. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which are credited amounts that may not be remitted abroad and that are due to resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All imports from Mainland China and countries in the Soviet area other than Czechoslovakia and the U.S.S.R. and certain com- modities 3 from any source require individual import licenses. All other imports from Czechoslo- 2 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schil- lings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 The list includes bacteriological products and other antibiotics, opium and cocaine derivatives and prepara- tions, medicines and pharmaceutical products, firearms, ammun i t ion, explosives, unworked and partly worked silver, gold jewe lry, meat, rice, seeds, flower bulbs, wheat flour, mas l in flour, corn, raw tobacco, textiles, fiber suitcases, umb re l las, plastic footwear, cement, and com- modities of the type exported by the Sierra Leone Pro- duce Ma rke t ing Board (e.g., live cattle, palm kernel, and pa lm o i l ). 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE vakia, the U.S.S.R., and most countries and terri- tories outside Mainland China and the Soviet area may be made freely under open general license.4 Foreign exchange is granted for all permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Ster- ling Area may be made freely. Remittances to all other countries require approval. For travel to countries outside the Sterling Area, residents are entitled to a basic exchange allowance of Le 500 during a calendar year. Applications for larger amounts are considered on an individual basis. Travelers may take out up to the equivalent of Le 50 of their basic exchange allowance in for- eign currency notes other than Rhodesian pound notes. In addition to the basic exchange allowance, travelers may take out, regardless of destination, the equivalent of Le 20 in any combination of leone notes and sterling notes. Nonresident travel- ers may take out foreign currency banknotes, including sterling notes, declared by them when entering Sierra Leone. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for a few commodities to certain destina- tions, exports require individual export licenses. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The proceeds in specified curren- cies (see footnote 2) of exports to countries out- side the Sterling Area must be sold to an author- ized bank in Sierra Leone within six months from the date of export, unless permission to do other- wise is obtained. 4 The open general license applies to Argentina, Aus- tralia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Bermuda, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central Afr ican Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Colom- bia, Congo (Brazzav i l le), Democratic Republic of Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Leeward Islands, Libya, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mau r i tan ia, Mexico, Morocco, Muscat and Oman, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, U.S.S.R., United Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Wind- ward Islands, Yugoslavia, and Zambia. 364 Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Subject to declaration upon entry, persons entering Sierra Leone may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign banknotes other than Guinean franc notes; the importation of the latter is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the movement of capital between Sierra Leone and other Sterling Area countries. Investments by residents of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhode- sia may be repatriated at any time, together with profits, provided that exchange control permission was obtained initially for the investment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Ordinance imposes control on the issue and transfer of securi- ties. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permission if the issuer is resident outside the Sterling Area. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a person resident out- side the Sterling Area. Capital in respect of secu- rities registered in Sierra Leone may not be trans- ferred outside Sierra Leone without permission. Where permission has been given for securities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident outside the Sterling Area, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone to ensure that permission will not be given later for taking out appreciably more than was brought in. The Development Ordinance of 1960 provides for income tax and customs duty concessions to for- eign and domestic companies undertaking indus- trial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic pur- poses. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely buy, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean gold coins issued for commemorative purposes. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, gold producers, and author- ized industrial users are not allowed to purchase, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited. Exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Chief Inspector of Mines; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and local gold producers. Travelers, however, do not require a license to take out personal jewelry valued at up to Le 200. Exports of unworked gold are not subject to export tax. Changes during 1967 Early in the year, a requirement was introduced that authorized banks apply for the prior approval of the central bank before executing payments orders received from outside Sierra Leone that involved local payments in excess of Le 1,000. Specified big companies were exempt. The require- ment was rescinded after several months. SIERRA LEONE May 4. Sierra Leone signed the Protocol of Association for the establishment of a West Afr i- can Economic Community. June 17. Imports from and exports to Rhodesia were prohibited. July 1. The export duty on diamonds was increased from iy2 per cent to 10 per cent. October 5. Import applications for 1968 were invited by Notice No. 1169. Czechoslovakia was added to the list of countries to which Open Gen- eral License No. 1 of 1967 applied, and textiles of Japanese origin were added to the commodities covered by the open general license. November 22. The par value was changed from Le 1 = US$1.40 to Le 1 = US$1.20. November 22. The export duty on diamonds was reduced from 10 per cent to 7% per cent. December 30. Public Notice No. 126 made certain specified chemicals subject to individual import license, irrespective of the country of origin. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Singapore dollar or S$3.06122 = US$1. The Board of Commissioners of Currency, Singapore, stands ready to buy Singaporean currency against sterling at 32.5573d. per S$l and to sell Singa- porean currency for sterling at 32.776Id. per S$l. Singaporean, Malaysian, and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charges, at the Currency Board and the commercial banks. No official buying and selling rates have been established for other cur- rencies. The commercial banks quote mu tua l ly agreed rates for customers for most Sterling Area currencies and for specified currencies.1 The rates are calculated on the basis of quotations for Sing- apore dollars against sterling in the Singapore exchange market and the quotations for other cur- rencies against sterling in the London exchange market. On December 31, 1967, the commercial banks' selling rate for the U.S. dollar was S$3.071017 per US$1. Administration of Control The Exchange Control Division of the Ministry of Finance administers exchange control. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is delegated to commercial banks author- ized for this purpose. The Trade Division of the Ministry of Finance administers import and export controls. Prescription of Currency Singapore is a member of the Sterling Area and generally follows the prescription of currency arrangements and the sterling payments system of the United Kingdom. All payments to and from Sterling Area countries must be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Certain pay- ments to Hungary, Poland, and Ruman ia are made through special accounts. Payments to other countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be made either in Singapore dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through 1 These specified currencies are listed as Au s t r ian sch i l l ings, Be lg ian f ranc s, Canad ian do l la rs, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French francs, I ta l ian l i re, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 366 an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Receipts from exports to other countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia must be obtained either in Singapore dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds sold to a bank in Singapore, with transfers of Singapore dollars or sterling from other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for transfer to countries outside the Sterling Area. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be con- verted into any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are permitted freely under open general license or specific licenses, depending on the nature and origin of the goods. A few imports are controlled for health or security reasons, and in appropriate cases certain conditions must be satisfied before licenses are issued. A number of imports are restricted for the protection of local industries. All imports originating in Rhodesia and South Africa or any territory administered by either are prohibited. Furthermore, the open general license does not apply to goods originating in Albania or Eastern Germany; for imports of certain commodities, it does not apply to Japan. Permission to make payments for permitted imports is readily given, provided that the pre- scription of currency regulations are observed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Ster- ling Area may be made freely. Payments related to commercial transactions and personal payments to other countries, except Rhodesia, are, in gen- eral, authorized, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. Authorized banks are per- mitted to approve applications for payments in respect of many categories of current invisibles, either without limitation or up to established limits. Applications for payments in excess of these limits, or for purposes for which no delega- tion of authority has been granted, are approved by the Exchange Control Division of the Ministry of Finance, provided that no unauthorized capital outflow is involved. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad; there is a basic travel allowance equivalent to <£ stg. 500 a person a year for travel outside the Sterling Area. Remittances to non- residents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on all bona fide investments are subject to exchange control approval, which normally is given freely. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than S$500 in Singaporean notes and the equivalent of £, stg. 250 in foreign notes may be taken out of Singapore by resident travelers; there is, however, no restriction on the amount of Singaporean notes that may be taken out of Singapore by travelers going direct to Brunei or Malaysia. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. With the exception of certain qualities, exports and re-exports of rice are suspended. Exports of cer- tain textiles to specified destinations are subject to restrictive licensing. Most other commodities do not require an export license. Exchange control approval is required only for exports exceeding S$20,000 in value to countries outside the Sterling Area and for exports to any country of gold in any form and of precious stones; this requirement serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Exchange Control Ordinance and are sold to an authorized bank. SINGAPORE Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers coming direct from Brunei or Malaysia may bring in any amount in Singaporean notes, and other travelers may bring in S$500; otherwise, permis- sion is required for the import of Singaporean notes. Permission is also required for the import of currency notes of India in excess of Rs 270 and of Indonesia in excess of Rp 3,000. No limita- tions are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and from other countries in the Sterling Area. Inward and outward capital transfers between Singapore and countries outside the Sterling Area require exchange control approval; such approval is freely granted for inward transfers, but die sub- sequent utilization of nonresident-owned funds in Singapore for investment purposes in most cases is subject to individual exchange control approval. Investment by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia in quoted stocks and bonds is freely permitted if made through a recognized stock exchange with funds from an External Account or transferred in a spec- ified currency; investment in stocks and bonds is subject to individual approval if it is to be made otherwise. Investments in new industrial and development projects that have been granted "pioneer status" are not restricted. However, to ensure that subscription monies are derived from an External Account, exchange control approval is required before shares are issued to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Subject to prior exchange control approval, proceeds from sales of securities held in Singapore and of other investments may be freely repatriated by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Borrowing from local banks by nonresident-controlled com- panies is subject to controls. Investments by Singaporean nationals in coun- tries outside the Sterling Area may be made only upon approval of the exchange control authorities; this is given only when such investments are con- sidered to serve the economic interest of the country. 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE Gold Residents other than authorized dealers are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than gold that has been manufactured into jewelry. Goldsmiths are, however, permitted to purchase certain quantities of gold from an authorized dealer for the manufacture of bona fide jewelry and ornaments; Permission for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler is not normally given except for imports by authorized dealers to meet the genuine requirements of goldsmiths for manufacturing jewelry and ornaments and for industrial uses. Imports of gold for the manufac- ture of jewelry for domestic sale are permitted by registered importers (i.e., goldsmiths) who hold an import license. Licenses are issued for imports of a specified quantity of gold each quarter and the amount any individual importer may bring in is subject to a maximum limit. The registered importers tender for the import licenses each quarter and the premiums paid for the licenses accrue to the Government. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler are prohibited. Changes during 1967 During the year many commodities previously subject to special import license became import- able under open general license, and certain other commodities were shifted from the open general license to special licensing. Only selected instances of such shifts are noted below. January 31. A trade agreement providing for most-favored-nation treatment was signed with Rumania; it came into force immediately. Seventy- five per cent of the proceeds from the sale to Singapore of specified Rumanian goods would be used by Rumania for importing from Singapore specified manufactured goods; payments for these Rumanian and Singaporean goods would be chan- neled through a special account subject to a swing credit. January 31. The open general license for imports was applied to goods originating in Rumania. March 1. A trade agreement providing for most- favored-nation treatment was signed with Hun- gary. Seventy-five per cent of the proceeds from 368 the sale of specified Hungarian goods to Singapore would be used by Hungary for importing from Singapore specified manufactured goods; pay- ments for these Hungarian and Singaporean goods would be channeled through a special account sub- ject to a swing credit. March 1. The open general license for imports was applied to goods originating in Hungary. May 13. The open general license for imports was applied to goods originating in North Korea. June 5. Malaysia and Singapore announced interchangeability arrangements for their separate currencies (see June 12). The effect was that banks in each country would accept, at par and without charge, notes and coins issued by the cur- rency authorities of the other country and exchange such notes and coins into notes and coins of the country concerned. In turn, each cur- rency authority would arrange for repatriation of the notes and coins issued by the other authorities and receive, at par, the equivalent in sterling or some other agreed currency. Subsequently, the Brunei Currency Board announced corresponding arrangements for the Brunei dollar. Persons traveling in Malaysia, Singapore, and Brunei would therefore be able to use notes and coins of any of the three countries concerned. June 12. The Board of Commissioners of Cur- rency, Singapore, replaced the Board of Commis- sioners of Currency, Malaya and British Borneo, as the sole currency issuing authority in Singapore and started issuing the Singapore dollar to replace gradually the Malayan dollar issued by the latter. An initial par value for the new currency was established, which was the same as the par value for the old. Malayan dollars were exchangeable for Singapore dollars at par. (See also Novem- ber 19, below.) June 30. A cooperation agreement was signed with Indonesia. Singapore undertook to discourage unrequited exports of Indonesian commodities to Singapore. June 30. Monosodium glutamate and prepara- tions thereof and glutamic acid no longer required individual import licenses. July 7. The import of matches from sources other than Albania, Eastern Germany, and Japan was exempted from individual licensing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 17. The restrictions on the Singaporean accounts denominated in Sterling Area currencies and held by residents of Hong Kong were lifted. July 17. The limit of £5,000 a family was abolished on the outward transfer of capital assets by foreign nationals who formerly were Singa- porean citizens. July 17. Following the abolition on April 12, 1967 of Blocked Accounts in the United King- dom, Blocked Singapore Dollar Accounts were abolished. Subject to prior exchange control approval, existing balances in Blocked Accounts and proceeds from sales of investments in Singa- pore by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area could be freely repatriated. Previously, most capital proceeds (other than funds invested in "pioneer status" enterprises) due to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area were not per- mitted to be transferred abroad but had to be credited to the Blocked Accounts; balances in such accounts could either be invested in any Sterling Area security with a maturity beyond five years or be transferred to a Blocked Account in the United Kingdom, in which case the funds could be realized through the security sterling market. August 7. Singapore signed the Declaration of Bangkok creating the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). SINGAPORE September 1. Imports of certain air-conditioning machinery were freed from individual licensing. November 19. Following the devaluation of the pound sterling on November 18, the par value of the Singapore dollar was maintained, while the rate in terms of sterling of the old Malayan dollar was left unchanged at 2s. 4d. As a result, the Malayan dollar was depreciated to S$0.8571. November 23. A wide variety of commodities were freed from specific import licensing. These included cement and television sets from all sources and specified cotton textiles originating in Mainland China. December 5. The Economic Expansion Incen- tives (Relief from Income Tax) Act, 1967 was passed. Among its objectives was encouragement of the inflow of capital and technical resources. December 26. For imports from and exports to West Malaysia, traders were required to submit documents for statistical purposes. For trade by land, they had to submit to the Singaporean cus- toms a copy of the appropriate Malaysian customs declarations. For trade by water or air, the ap- propriate Singaporean form had to be presented to the carriers. 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA l Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Somali Shilling or So. Sh. 7.14286 = US$1. The Somali National Bank carries out exchange in "convertible" currenc ies2 with transactions authorized dealers at a single fixed rate for each currency based on the par value or official rate of that currency and the par value of the Somali shilling. Settlements under bilateral payments agreements are made at rates corresponding to official par values. The exchange market in Soma- lia comprises the Somali National Bank and five commercial banks appointed as authorized exchange dealers in respect of transactions in gold and foreign currencies.3 The banks charge a for- eign exchange commission (including banking commission) of 0.7 per cent for all exchange transactions other than purchases and sales of banknotes. Authorized exchange dealers gener- ally do not conduct forward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, although this is not pro- hibited. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce is the principal government agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade and exchange controls. It has been given the authority to regulate and control all foreign economic trans- actions and to establish policy for the licensing of imports, exports, and exchange. The Somali National Bank is authorized to determine the rates at which foreign currencies are to be negotiated, to establish a list of "convertible" currencies,2 and to appoint banks as authorized exchange dealers. It may also implement the trade and exchange con- trols on behalf of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. An Advisory Commission, consisting of nine members representing various ministries, the Somali National Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, advises the Ministry of Industry 1 In view of cer ta in changes that took place on Jan- u a ry 1, 1968 (see note at the end of th is s u r v e y ), th is survey presents the position as at that date. 2 These are listed as Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, D j i b o u ti f ranc s, deutsche m a r k, French f ranc s, I t a l i an lire, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, pounds sterling, South A r ab i an d ina rs, Swedish kroner, Swiss f ranc s, and U.S. do l lars. 3 The authority granted to banks to deal in gold was w i t h d r awn on March 18, 1968. 370 and Commerce on policy questions relating to the regulation and control of foreign economic trans- actions. Licensing Committees, usually consisting of members representing the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Somali National Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, decide on applications for licenses for imports and for transfers in respect of services. The Somali National Bank grants licenses for cer- tain routine invisibles. Transfers in respect of capi- tal are authorized by the Licensing Committee in Mogadiscio, unless they are governed by the pro- visions of Law No. 10 of February 18, 1960 on foreign investments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Mainland China and the U.S.S.R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denominated in pounds sterling. Settle- ments with the United Arab Republic must be made mostly in convertible currencies; 50 per cent of payments for imports from the United Arab Republic and all payments for invisibles to the United Arab Republic other than those for Suez Canal dues are debited to Somalia's creditor bal- ance resulting from the terminated payments agree- ment with that country; other payments normally are channeled through special accounts denomi- nated in sterling. Settlements with all other coun- tries must be made in Somali shillings or in "con- vertible" currencies (see footnote 2 ). Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies may be opened with authorized exchange dealers by Somali nationals abroad on diplomatic service; Somali nationals residing abroad and deriving income only from sources outside Somalia; foreign nationals and foreign institutions enjoying diplomatic status in Somalia; foreign persons customarily resident abroad and companies whose head office is abroad, provided that they did not derive income (includ- ing export proceeds) from sources within Somalia; and by other physical or juridical per- sons individually authorized by the Somali National Bank to ma in ta in a nonresident account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel, Kenya,4 Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. For reasons of public policy, the import of a few commodities from all sources may be prohibited and that of certain other items requires individual license.5 All other commodities may be imported freely. Individual licenses are required for 33 commodities or groups of com- modities, constituting approximately one half of total imports in value. These commodities com- prise four broad categories: (1) items subject to control for reasons of security, health, or public policy; ( 2) commodities which are domestically produced or the import and distribution of which is handled by state trading agencies; (3) com- modities imported under tied loans and grants; and (4) items considered to be of a luxury or nonessential character. There are two import licensing lists, Schedule A and Schedule B. All imports, whether subject to licensing or not, must be declared. If goods imported under license d iffer in weight, quantity, or value by more than 10 per cent from the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. All imports other than those made by the Govern- ment, diplomatic and consular agencies, and inter- national organizations are subject to a statistical and administrative tax of 10 per cent. Payments for imports are authorized by the Somali National Bank or an authorized exchange dealer on the basis of either an import license (where required) or a "notice of import of goods not subject to license" and other documentation relating to the import transaction (bills, bills of lading, shipping notices, e tc .). Provided that the Somali National Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transaction meets the legal requirements, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the third business day following the receipt of the application or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the applicant. The Somali National Bank or the authorized exchange dealer *The prohibition of imports f rom Kenya was te rm i- nated on Janua ry 27, 1968. 5 W i th effect f rom Janua ry 21, 1968, a numb er of tex t i les and ce r ta in o ther commod i t ies requ ired ind iv idu al im p o rt licenses. SOMALIA may also permit advance payments for imports, (i.e., payment for merchandise not actually passed through customs at the time of paymen t), pro- vided that documentary evidence of actual ship- ment is produced. Authorized banks must require a cash deposit of at least 50 per cent when opening import letters of credit; exemption from this requirement may be given for essential imports. Special payments regulations apply to border trade in specified areas of Somalia; part of this trade is carried on by traders who do not operate through authorized banking institutions. Stich traders are permitted to use the proceeds from their exports to a neighboring country for the import of goods from that country up to So. Sh. 10,000 a month for each person. Unused balances remaining from such transactions must be surrendered. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are subject to licensing, mainly to prevent unauthorized capital movements; provided that balance of payments considerations permit, genuine requirements are generally met. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratui- ties, and allowances paid in Somalia to their for- eign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are normally allowed up to 50 per cent. The Somali National Bank may grant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified limits. Applications for exchange for amounts exceeding those limits and for all other invisibles are considered on their merits by the Licensing Committees in Mogadiscio and Hargeisa. For tourist travel, there is an allowance of the equivalent of So. Sh. 1,000 a person a year, which is applicable to all countries except Canada, Japan, and the United States; for these three countries, the allowance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. Nonresident travelers may take out freely any foreign exchange which they brought in and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins. Resident travelers may take out freely So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins and up to the equivalent of So. Sh. 200 in foreign banknotes and coins. A cur- rency declaration is required by all persons leaving the country. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel, Kenya,6 Rho- desia, and South Africa are prohibited. The export of a few commodities to any destination may be prohibited for reasons of public policy. An export declaration is required for all commodities. Exports of bananas and ten other commodities or groups of commodities are subject to license; other exports may be made freely. All exports are subject to a statistical and administrative tax of 5 per cent. Except in border trade (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above), all export pro- ceeds must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer within five business days after their receipt. The Somali National Bank may exempt exporters from the surrender obliga- tion in respect of their export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali National Bank or to an authorized dealer within five business days after their receipt. The Somali National Bank may grant exemptions from the surrender requirement. Nonresidents may bring in freely with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Resident travelers may bring in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare and offer to surrender any foreign exchange or gold coins they bring in. Capital Most capital transactions are subject to licens- ing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960. In accordance with the provisions of that law, foreign enterprises must be registered with the Ministry of Planning and Coordination. For "productive" enterprises (i.e., those that engage in irrigation, improvement of land, establishment of factories, construction of aqueducts, and testing, analyzing, and drilling activities in connection with oil and mineral exploration), profits may be transferred abroad freely up to a limit of 15 per cent per annum of the capital invested; this transfer right is cumula- tive. Should profits in any one year be less than 15 per cent, the transfer right for the succeeding three years is correspondingly increased. The capital itself may be transferred abroad beginning five years after the date of registration. Profits resulting from other foreign investments may be transferred abroad up to a limit of 10 per cent per annum of the capital invested, and the capital itself may be transferred abroad over a minimum period of three years, beginning seven years after the date of registration. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jew- elry, at home or abroad.7 Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require permissions issued by the Somali National Bank; such permissions are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1967 January 1. The exchange tax applicable to most purchases of foreign exchange was reduced from 3 per cent to 1.5 per cent, and an import tax of 1.5 per cent was applied to imports for which no official exchange had been granted (franco valuta imports). The statistical and administrative tax on imports was increased from 5 per cent to 8 per cent. March 13. Djibouti francs and South Arabian dinars were added to the list of "convertible" cur- rencies, and the following currencies were deleted from the list: Danish kroner, East African shil- lings, Indian rupees, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Norwegian kroner, Tanzania shillings, and Uganda shillings. April 1. Imports of rice from countries other than the United Arab Republic were temporarily suspended. July 1. The proportion of payments for imports from the United Arab Republic that was debited 6 The prohibition of exports to Kenya was terminated on J a n u a ry 27, 1968. 7 See footnote 3. 372 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to Somalia's creditor balance resulting from the terminated payments agreement with that country was increased from 30 per cent to 50 per cent. July 12. The regulations concerning nonresi- dent accounts were revised. Such accounts, whether in Somali shillings or in "convertible" cur- rencies, could be opened by authorized exchange dealers only for the following: Somali nationals abroad on diplomatic service; Somali nationals residing abroad and deriving income only from sources outside Somalia; foreign nationals and foreign institutions enjoying diplomatic status in Somalia; foreign persons customarily resident abroad and companies whose head office is abroad, provided that they did not derive income (includ- ing export proceeds) from sources within Somalia; and for other physical or juridical persons indi- vidually authorized by the Somali National Bank to ma in ta in a nonresident account. SOMALIA Future overdrafts on nonresident accounts in excess of So. Sh. 20,000 or its equivalent in other currencies required the prior authorization of the National Bank. December 1. The National Bank instructed the authorized banks to require a cash deposit of at least 50 per cent when opening import letters of credit. NOTE.—The following change took place early in 1968: January 1. The exchange tax of 1.5 per cent applicable to most purchases of foreign exchange and the import tax of 1.5 per cent on imports for which no official foreign exchange had been granted (franco valuta imports) were eliminated. The statistical and administrative tax on imports was increased from 8 per cent to 10 per cent. 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per South African Rand or R 1 = US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rates for sterling against rand (R 171.2140 buying, and R 172.0715 selling, per <£100) and the London market rates for sterling against other currencies. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are per- mitted to conduct forward exchange operations among themselves and with overseas banks. The rates for the U.S. dollar on December 29, 1967, were US$1.4065 buying, and US$1.3980 selling, p e rR 1. Exchange Control Territory For purposes of control over transactions in securities, residents of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland are regarded as nonresidents. Other- wise, there are virtually no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South Africa, South-West Africa, Botswana, Lesotho, and Swazi- land, and these territories are regarded as forming, with the Republic of South Africa, a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports acting on behalf of the Secretary for Commerce. Exchange licens- ing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the South African Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has dele- gated to the commercial banks much of its licens- ing power. Appropriate exchange for licensed imports is made available by the authorized deal- ers upon presentation of suitable documentary evidence. Prescription of Currency South Africa is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with residents of countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Settlements with residents of other countries except Rhodesia may be made in sterling or rand to or from an External Account or in any 374 specified currency,1 or, for outgoing payments only, in any other non-Sterling Area currency. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are the accounts of resi- dents of countries outside South Africa, South- West Africa, Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland (except the Blocked Accounts of residents of the last three territories—see section on Exchange Control Territory, above). They are divided into four categories: Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, External Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South African residents to Sterling Area countries; with transfers from other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts; and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in South Africa of pounds sterling or the currency of any other country in the Sterling Area (excluding South A f r i c a ). They may be debited for payments for exports to coun- tries in the Sterling Area and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to South African residents; for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose; for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts (provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned) and to other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts in South Africa; for purchases of any Sterling Area currency; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Africa. Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rhodesia. They may be credited with all author- ized payments by South African residents; with transfers from Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, provided that the transaction has been 1 In the South A f r ican exchange control regulations, specified currencies are listed as Au s t r i an sch i l l ings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss f ranc s, and U. S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution approved in the Sterling Area country concerned; with transfers from External Accounts in South Africa; with transfers from other Rhodesian Accounts; and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer in South Africa of Rhodesian currency, any specified currency (see footnote 1), or the currency of any country in the Sterling Area other than South Africa, provided that the trans- action has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned. They may be debited for pay- ments for exports to Rhodesia and other payments due by Rhodesian residents to South African resi- dents; for transfers to other Rhodesian Accounts in South Africa for any purpose; for purchases of Rhodesian currency in South Africa; and for with- drawals by the account holder while he is tem- porarily resident in South Africa. External Accounts are held by residents of countries other than Rhodesia outside the Sterling Area. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South African residents to such coun- tries outside the Sterling Area; with transfers from other External Accounts in South Africa and from External Accounts in the United Kingdom or other countries in the Sterling Area (provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned); and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in South Africa of specified currencies (see footnote 1). They may be debited for payments to South African residents and residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose; for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts or to other External Accounts in South Africa or in any other country in the Sterling Area; for purchases of any non- sterling currency; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Africa. Blocked Accounts represent mainly the pro- ceeds from sales of South African securities by a nonresident to a resident. Such proceeds may not be transferred from South Africa or to another Blocked Account in South Africa, but may be retained on deposit or reinvested in securities which are quoted locally; such securities may be exported and sold abroad. If invested in Govern- ment, Municipal, or Public Utility Stocks, the pro- ceeds on redemption at ma tur i ty are freely trans- ferable to the nonresident owner, provided that he had held the securities for a continuous period SOUTH AFRICA of at least five years to redemption. Blocked rand may also be used to subscribe to a special issue, made available by the Government to nonresidents only, of five-year transferable bonds offered by tender on a discount basis and repayable in for- eign currencies applicable to the domicile of the holder. Prior to the creation of this facility on June 11, 1964, blocked rand could be used to subscribe to a special issue made available to non- residents only, of three-year nonnegotiable, non- transferable bonds (called nonresident bonds) bearing interest at 3% per cent and repayable (in three annual installments from the date of sub- scription) in foreign currencies applicable to the domicile of the holder. In special cases, blocked rand may also be used for direct investment in manufacturing enterprises. Emigrants' assets that exceed the permissible transferable amount, and the proceeds of South African securities held by immigrants prior to their arrival in South Africa or acquired abroad within three years of their arrival, are also blocked, but favorable consideration is given to the release of such immigrants' funds (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments All importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered with the Director of Imports and Exports. Most licenses allow the importation of a range of commodities, but they are, in gen- eral, to be used for goods of the same type previ- ously brought in by the importer. Import licenses are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of license include (1) all goods imported from Botswana, Lesotho, or Swaziland, and (2) all goods imported from Rhodesia, Malawi, and Zambia that were grown, produced, or manufac- tured in those countries. The Import Control Regulations for 1967, as amended during the year, distinguished between the following categories: (1) Goods on the free list, i.e., those that could be imported without import license. The list included tea, raw wool, various materials for the clothing industry in South Africa, newspapers, books, periodicals, certain stationery items, petrol, oils, lubricants, scientific and laboratory equip- ment, and X-ray apparatus and film. 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (2) Goods that required import permits for which no specific annual quotas were fixed for individual importers. This list included capital plant and equipment and raw materials. A distinc- tion was made between two categories: goods required by manufac turers for use or processing in their own factories, and goods imported by mer- chants for resale to industry. Permits for raw materials were granted on a basis of six months' stock at the current rate of consumption to manu- facturers who imported such goods for their own use. For capital plant and equipment, permits were granted on a basis of essentiality, due regard being taken of domestic availability determined in the light of price, quality, and delivery. To mer- chants importing these goods for resale, permits for plant and equipment with an f.o.b. price not exceeding R 1,000 per single unit and for raw materials were issued within the limits of individ- ual allocations. For plant and equipment with an f.o.b. price for each individual item of more than R 1,000 and less than R 50,000, permits were generally issued freely after July 1966. ( 3) Motor vehicles and CKD (completely knocked down) materials for motor vehicles. Manufactured cars were not subject to quotas and permits to import them were freely available, with the following exception: for vehicles with an f.o.b. price not exceeding R 1,900 the permit was freely issued only if the vehicle had been used by the applicant for not less than six months outside South Africa and provided that it had been regis- tered in the name of the applicant during that period. Permits for CKD material for motor vehicles were granted as follows: ( a) for commer- cial vehicles, on the basis of six months' stock for light vehicles and nine months' stock for heavy vehicles; (b) for locally manufac tured passenger vehicles (i.e., vehicles for which an acceptable local content program had been subm i t ted ), on the basis of six months' stock; and (c) for locally assembled passenger vehicles, on a restricted basis —additional import facilities, however, could be earned for these vehicles by under tak ing to increase local content. (4) Goods that required import permits and for which annual quotas were granted to individ- ual importers. For purposes of allocation, these goods were divided in two categories which corre- sponded to general merchandise not made locally 376 (Category A) and locally made goods (Category B ). The items in Category A comprised a number of consumer goods, office machines, cameras and photographic materials, and cotton and synthetic fibers. Category B included, in addition to general merchandise not in Category A, milled rice, tim- ber, fertilizers, and textile piece goods; juke boxes, pin tables, and television sets also were listed in this group, but as a general rule no permits were given for these last three items. ( 5) Goods on the restricted list, i.e., those that required specific import permits. These were goods that were available locally, or for which substitutes from domestic sources were adequate, both in quantity and quality. They included cer- tain consumer goods (mainly food) and certain raw materials, such as cement, fertilizers, natural asphalt, ju te fiber, cardboard boxes, and wood. Importers of general merchandise and merchant importers of raw materials wishing to import any of the goods in this group could convert their import permits into specific permits (in which case the goods to be imported were specifically described), provided that the goods to be imported under the specific permit for which application was made fell within the same general category as the goods detailed in the original import permit issued. Such individual licenses could be obtained by the surrender of the original import permits on the basis of R 3 surrendered for R 1 of the specific permit obtained. The first R 5,000 of an import- er's total annual quota could be converted into a specific permit for any articles in this category (with three minor specified exceptions) on the basis of R 1 for R 1. In addition, if the goods in this category were imported under rebate of cus- toms duty, a specific permit was not required and there was no import permit loss by conversion. The Import Control Regulations for 1968 fol- low essentially the classification of imports set out above. A number of items, however, have been added to those exempt from import license, cer- tain other items no longer require a specific import permit, and approval and allocation practices have been made more liberal for certain other items. Provided that licensing regulations are respected and upon presentation to his bank of the necessary consignment documents (proof of impo r ta t ion ), an importer is granted exchange to pay for the import. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles All payments to nonresidents for current invisi- bles require exchange licenses. For some types of transaction, there is no limitation on the amoun t; for others, authority is delegated to the commercial banks to approve payments up to established limits. For current income payments, such as declared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South Africa, approval is given by the authorized banks without reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that profits or dividends to be remitted by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries are based on profits earned since December 31, 1959 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable consideration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income derived f rom securities acquired with blocked funds or otherwise held by nonresidents is freely transferable to the monetary area of the owner. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, family maintenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a calendar year is R 2,000 for an adu lt and R 800 for a child under the age of 12. Separately, there is another annual basic exchange allocation of R 250 for an adult (R 100 for a child under 12) for travel to the Democratic Republic of Congo, Malawi, Rhodesia, Zambia, and Portu- guese East and West Afr ica. Applications for larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Residents leaving South Afr ica may take out freely, as part of the basic travel allowance, the equivalent of R 200 in banknotes, of which South A f r i c an Reserve Bank notes may not exceed R 100 for travel to Malawi, Portuguese East A f r ica, Rhodesia, or Zambia, or R 20 for travel to other destinations. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa within 12 months after arrival may take with them up to R 100 in Reserve Bank notes and any reasonable amount of foreign notes which they brought into the country or obtained f rom the disposal of ins trumen ts of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South Afr ica. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in relatively short supply, or for which domestic SOUTH AFRICA prices are substantially lower than those obtain- able overseas, require licenses irrespective of desti- nation (w i th the exception of exports to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland). Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to destinations other than the United Kingdom, any Commonwealth country, any British colony, protectorate, or trust territory, or the United States. The re-export of imported goods is controlled to prevent com- modity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be surrendered within 6 months from the date of shipment and 30 days f rom the date of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within 30 days from the date of their acquisition, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry, resi- dents may bring in R 20 in South Afr ican Reserve Bank notes, and nonresidents R 50; however, non- resident travelers coming from Mozambique, Rho- desia, or Zambia are allowed to bring in R 100 in South African Reserve Bank notes. Capital The proceeds of the sale of South Afr ican securities by nonresidents to residents must be credited to Blocked Accounts (see section on Non- resident Accounts, above). The following pay- ments related to nonresident capital may be car- ried out by the authorized banks without reference to the South Afr ican Reserve Bank: transfers to nonresidents of the proceeds on maturity of Gov- ernment, Municipal, and Public Utility Stocks and National Savings Certificates, provided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident transferee (who was not an em igran t) on June 16, 1961, or, if the stocks were acquired after June 16, 1961, provided that they are registered continu- ously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; normal capital repayments to nonresidents by certain "dying" mines in regular periodic installments not exceeding in any one year 10 per cent of the nominal value per share; transfers to nonresident owners of balances of up to R 50, left over from the reinvestment of blocked fund s; and transfers of up to R 20,000 to a nonresident beneficiary 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA from the proceeds of legacies from estates in South Africa that hold no foreign assets. Emigrant families whose assets do not exceed R 20,000 may have R 10,000 transferred abroad as a settling-in allowance, and those with greater assets may have 50 per cent of their assets, up to R 30,000, trans- ferred; any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount is blocked. Prior to June 1964, blocked rand could be used to subscribe to the Government's issue of three-year nonresident rand bonds ( for emigrants, subscriptions of up to R 30,000 a family were pe rm i t ted ); this enabled the nonresident to secure the transfer of his funds in convertible currencies at official market rates in three equal annual installments, together with interest at 3% per cent a year. Since June 1964, similar facilities have been available through sub- scription to five-year transferable bonds. The South African Reserve Bank may approve transfers of repayments at ma tur i ty to nonresi- dent holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or before June 16, 1961. Favor- able consideration is given for the transfer by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or loan account balances or undistributed current profits, or for the transfer of any dividends by them, provided that the remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. The physi- cal export of nonresident-owned securities is per- mitted, except by emigrants in excess of their settling-in allowances. Inward capital transfers require exchange con- trol approval; certain types of such transfers are freely permitted by open general licenses. Foreign exchange accruing to residents from capital trans- fers and transactions must be surrendered. Out- ward transfers of capital by residents in general require the approval of the South African Reserve Bank and are usually not allowed. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South African (or other) shares on external stock exchanges are not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 for each shareholder, to allow South African residents to exercise rights arising from existing holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South African stockbrokers may engage in arbi- trage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Applications by South Afr ican resi- 378 dents to retain in, or transfer to, Malawi, Rho- desia, Zambia, and the neighboring Portuguese territories funds for bona fide long-term invest- ment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing South African owned or controlled projects are considered by the South African Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits; but such applications are scrutinized, in part to prevent remittances to those areas from being used as a first step in the onward transfer of capital to other countries. For three years after their arrival in South Africa, immigrants may dispose of their foreign assets held abroad and also invest in South African securities abroad. However, the proceeds from the sale of all securi- ties brought in by immigrants are blocked; the blocking is normally for at least three years, but the restriction may be removed on amounts up to R 20,000 or more, to enable the immigrant to set up a home and to meet current living expenses. There are normally three ways in which holders of blocked rand can repatriate funds from South A f r ica: ( 1) by taking up special nonresident bonds issued by the Government (see above)— these mature in five years, when the redemption proceeds may be withdrawn at the official rate; (2) by holding certain Government, Municipal, and Public Utility Stocks, and South Afr ican National Savings Certificates for at least five years to redemption, when the proceeds can be trans- ferred abroad at the official rate; and (3) by exporting South African shares bought on the Johannesburg stock exchange, provided that they have been restrictively endorsed, and selling them abroad (usually at a discount on the South African quo ta t ion). Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, regis- tered gold producers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to pur- chase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank; the approval authority has been delegated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution (subject to a written declaration to the effect that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's return) and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers (sub- ject, except for exports to Malawi, Rhodesia, and Zambia, to a written declaration that the articles are in fully manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 75 per cent of the selling price to the ultimate consignee). In practice, gold producers are required to sell their entire output to the Reserve Bank, which in turn sells gold to meet any shortfall in the country's day-to-day foreign currency requirements. The Mint from time to time strikes gold coins that are not declared legal tender; these are made available in limited numbers to resident collectors, while the bulk is sold in non-Sterling Area coun- tries. Imports of gold are confined mainly to coins for numismatic purposes and to certain types of jewelry. Changes during 1967 January 1. Permits for imports of raw materials by manufacturers would be granted freely to facili- tate a substantial increase in stocks; permits for imports of raw materials by merchants were increased from 100 per cent to 115 per cent of 1964 imports. Permits for imports of capital plant and equipment would be granted more freely than previously to existing industries and to merchant importers of such goods; merchant importers of machine tools were permitted to ma in ta in a stock level of six months, based on current sales. Allo- cations in 1967 for consumer items not made locally, i.e., Category A items, would be raised from 100 per cent to 110 per cent of 1964 imports and some of these items were transferred to the free list. Allocations for 1967 for consumer items made locally, i.e., Category B items, were raised from 55 per cent to 60 per cent of the importer's assessment basis, and the value of permits for textile piece goods would be increased by 15 per cent in 1967. Furthermore, a considerable num- ber of consumer items made locally (Category B) was removed from the restricted list and was included in the list of goods for which special import facilities over and above normal allocations would be granted for 1967. The Import Control Regulations for 1967 went into effect. SOUTH AFRICA February 9. Holders of ordinary general mer- chandise permits could import most of the goods in the special category. March 10. Minor amendments to the first-round import allocations for 1967 were announced. A number of items were added to the import free list and a number of other items were deleted from the restricted list. May 17. Second-round import allocations were announced. These made the total of 1967 alloca- tions larger than had been indicated in December 1966. Import allocations for Category A con- sumer goods were raised from 110 per cent to 120 per cent of 1964 imports, while those for Category B consumer goods were increased from 60 to 70 per cent of the allocation basis. As regards engi- neering requirements (including hardware, but excluding machine tools and other capital goods), the permit allocations were increased from 115 to 125 per cent of 1964 imports; allocations for cer- tain raw materials were also raised from 115 to 125 per cent of 1964 imports. Because the econ- omy was considered overheated, no fu r ther allo- cations to commercial importers of machine tools and capital goods were envisaged. The current policy of issuing permits for raw materials and stock requirements freely to industrial users was continued. Licensing policy for all other imported goods, including strategic goods for stockpiling, also remained unchanged. To encourage new importers and to increase competition, the initial value of import permit awards was increased from R 6,000 to R 7,500 for retailers and from R 10,000 to R 15,000 for wholesalers. It was announced that the balance of quotas outstanding under existing permit allocations would be granted immediately and that there would be no third- round allocation for 1967. August 24. All matters relating to the importa- tion and exportation of South Afr ican and foreign currency coins (including gold coins) and postage stamps for numismatic or philatelic purposes henceforth had to be referred to the Reserve Bank, and not to the Department of Import and Export Control, as previously. December 15. The Import Control Regulations for 1968 were published. They provided for a fu r ther relaxation of import restrictions and for 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA some rationalization and simplification of import control procedures. Importers of consumer goods would immediately be granted a first allocation of import permits for 1968 representing 75 per cent of their 1967 permit allocations. The number of items on the restricted list was reduced from 85 to 24, and the ratio for the conversion of general merchandise permits into licenses for restricted list items was eased from R 3 to R 2 for each R 1 of a specified permit. A number of items were added to the free list. Some other items were shifted from the restricted list to a new list and would be admitted under quotas to be announced from time to time; they included fertilizers, rubber, certain agricultural commodities, specified pharmaceutical products, certain metals, all coins, gold medallions, and certain gold ornaments. Permits for the importation of capital plant and equipment would continue to be granted on the basis of essentiality, and those for the importation of industrial raw materials by manufacturers on the basis of six months' stocks. 380 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN ' Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0126953 gram of fine gold per Spanish Peseta or Ptas 70.00 = US$1. The official limits are Ptas 69.48 buying, and Ptas 70.53 selling, per US$1. Market rates for specified cur- rencies2 admitted to the exchange market vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Spain and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute (IEME), which publishes the rates at which it settles the transactions it carries out direct and the rate appli- cable to banknotes. These rates are based on the rates of the previous week. Authorized banks quote buying and selling rates for Moroccan dir- hams. They are allowed to operate in foreign markets for spot transactions and forward trans- actions related to commercial transactions for up to 180 days. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, Melilla, and the Spanish towns and provinces in Afr ica constitute a single exchange control terri- tory, the Spanish Monetary Area. Administration of Control On a policy level, controls are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and, on a technical administrative level, by the IEME and the Direc- torate-General of Foreign Trade —both in the Ministry of Commerce —and by authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transac- tions and invisibles other than those with bilateral payments agreement countries may be made in any specified currency,2 but in practice they are 1 In view of cer ta in changes th at took place on J anu- ary 1, 1968 (see note at the end of this s u r v e y ), this survey presents the position as at that da te. 2 In add i t ion to U.S. dollars, these currencies are Aus- t r ian sch i l l ings, Be lg ian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish markkas, French francs, I ta l ian l ire, N e th e r l ands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, Por tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish k rono r, and Swiss f rancs. usually made in the currency determined on the basis of the country of origin or destination. Settle- ments with bilateral payments agreement coun- tries 3 are made through agreement accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: external accounts in convertible pesetas and external accounts in internal pesetas. External accounts in convertible pesetas may be credited with proceeds from the sale in the Span- ish exchange market of any foreign currencies listed in that market; with authorized current and capital payments which have been liberalized or authorized by license, when such payments are to be made in pesetas or specified foreign curren- cies; with transfers from other similar accounts in convertible pesetas; with interest received on balances held on these accounts; and with receipts from the National Lottery (when evidence is sub- mitted that the ticket was acquired with foreign exchange). They may be debited for the purchase of foreign currencies (including foreign bank- notes) listed in the Spanish exchange market; for payments for Spanish exports; for investments in Spain; for transfers to any other external account; and for any other type of payment in Spain. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the IEME. External accounts in internal pesetas may be credited with pensions and salaries obtained by the account holder and not otherwise transferable; with receipts from the National Lottery (when no evidence is submitted that the ticket was acquired with foreign exchange); and with inter- est received on balances held on these accounts. They may be debited to pay the personal expenses in Spain of the account holder and his close rela- tives (s ta ff expenses if the account is opened in the name of a company), and for the purchase of government bonds, of fixed-interest-bearing stocks 3 Bu lg a r i a, Repub l ic of Ch ina, Colombia, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hunga ry, Mexico, Paraguay, Poland, Rum an i a, Syrian A rab Repub l ic, Un i ted Arab Repub l ic, U ruguay, and Yugoslavia. Spain also has a b i la te ral paymen ts agreement w i th Morocco requ i r ing paymen ts between the two coun tr ies to be made in b i la- t e r al d i r h ams or b i la te ral pesetas. 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN issued by Spanish public corporations, and of shares quoted on the stock exchange. They may also be debited for the purchase for the use of the account holder of town and country properties that do not represent investments for commercial, industrial, or agricultural purposes. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authori- zation of the IEME. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports require either an import license or an "import declaration" issued by the Directorate- General of Foreign Trade. Provided that import prices are not considered abnormal, "import decla- rations" are issued freely for goods (mostly raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods) included in an import free list that applies to most countries with which Spain has no bilateral payments agreements.4 All other imports require licenses. There are global quotas for specified imports from countries to which the free list applies. With certain excep- tions, this regime also applies to goods of Japanese origin. Licenses for specified imports from Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and Yugoslavia are issued freely. Imports of cer- tain agricultural products that are free of quan- titative restriction are subject to variable import levies. Exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Except for capital goods, suppliers' credit for imports is not normally permitted to exceed 90 days. 4 The countries to wh ich the import free list applies are Au s t r i a, Be lg ium, Denmark, France, Greece, Iceland, I re land, Italy, Luxembou rg, Ne the r land s, No rway, Portu- gal, Sweden, Switzerland, Tu rkey, Un i ted Kingdom, and the ir overseas territories; and Algeria, Argen t ina, Aus- t ra l ia, Bo l iv ia, Brazil, Bu rma, Bu rund i, Cameroon, Canada, Cen tral A f r ican Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Congo (B razzav i l le ), Democratic Republic of Congo, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Dahomey, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Ivory Coast, Jama ica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwa i t, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Mala- gasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauri- tania, Mozambique, New Zealand, Nicaragua, N ige r, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Afr ica, Sudan, Tanzania, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United States, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Viet-Nam, and Zambia. 382 Payments for Invisibles All transfers abroad and payments by residents in favor of nonresidents on account of current invisibles are subject to authorization, mainly for the purpose of checking capital transactions. Pay- ments up to Ptas 5,000 for any purpose may be made freely. For a large proportion of invisibles, the banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documents. For certain services trans- fers may be made freely up to a pre-established amount; for transfers which exceed that amount, licenses are granted liberally. Holders of Spanish securities (excluding securi- ties issued by private companies acquired through direct subscription) may freely transfer abroad accrued interest, dividends, and proceeds from the disposal of subscription rights; the securities must have been purchased with convertible pesetas or with pesetas resulting from the sale of foreign exchange quoted in the Spanish foreign exchange market. Profits and dividends on direct invest- ments are also transferable abroad without restric- tion. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Insurance contracts abroad may not be concluded, except where they concern exports and imports of goods. There is a basic tourist exchange allowance of Ptas 42,000 a person for each trip. The authorized banks are also permitted to sell the equivalent of Ptas 1,500 a day for business trips, up to the equivalent of Ptas 75,000 a person for each trip. For longer business trips, the bank must apply to the IEME for additional exchange, which is granted liberally for this purpose. Travelers may take with them Ptas 3,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to prior licensing by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Exports to all destinations of olives for oil production are suspended, while other types of olives may be exported freely. Exports of citrus fru i ts to EEC countries and the United Kingdom are subject to weekly quotas. With very few exceptions, licenses for other exports are granted freely. All export pro- ceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the IEME through authorized banks. Certain agri- cultural exports are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the IEME through authorized banks. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Ptas 50,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital Foreign capital participation is permitted freely in most Spanish industries, as specified in a decree of April 18, 1963. In certain other industries, foreign investment of up to 50 per cent of the capi- tal of the enterprise is permitted freely, and that which exceeds 50 per cent requires the authoriza- tion of the Council of Ministers; for participation in Spanish shipping companies, the former ratio is 40 per cent. Foreign investment is not permitted in Spanish enterprises whose activity is directly connected with national defense, public informa- tion, and certain public services. New investment, both foreign and Spanish, for the establishment of Spanish enterprises in a large number of specified sectors that are under the jur- isdiction of the Ministries of Industry and Agricul- ture is free from control, provided that certain minimum conditions are met; these conditions relate mainly to the size of the enterprise and its potential output. Investment in existing enterprises in these sectors is permitted freely even if the mini- mum conditions are not fulfilled. All investment in a few specified industrial and agricultural sectors requires prior authorization by the Government; investment in all other industrial and agricultural sectors and in the tourist sector is free. Foreign investment for the purpose of moderniz- ing, expanding, and establishing Spanish enter- prises may be effected either by transferring cur- rencies that are negotiable in the Madrid exchange market, by using convertible pesetas, by bringing in capital goods, by reinvesting profits or capital transferable under the Foreign Investment Law, or by providing know-how, patents, or licenses. Proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the liquidation of foreign direct investments made after July 27, 1959 for the purpose of establishing, modernizing, and expanding Spanish enterprises SPAIN may be transferred freely. Transfers abroad of principal of investments made by nonresidents before July 28, 1959 are subject to prior authori- zation by the IEME; such authorization is rarely given. Purchases by nonresidents of shares in most Spanish companies, as specified in Decree No. 701 of April 18, 1963 (including investment trusts but excluding those companies whose activity is directly connected with national defense, public information, and certain public services) are per- mitted freely. This applies to shares acquired by Spaniards resident abroad, as well as by resident or nonresident foreigners, either with convertible pesetas or with pesetas resulting from the conver- sion of foreign currencies negotiable in the Span- ish exchange market. Proceeds, including capital gains, from the liquidation of such shares acquired after July 27, 1959 may be transferred abroad at any time, or used for fu r ther purchases of shares. The above applies also to bonds and other fixed- income securities representing debts of Spanish companies; there is no limit on bond holdings. Proceeds obtained from the sale of nonresident holdings of shares of Spanish companies and other Spanish securities acquired before July 28, 1959 may be used to purchase other Spanish securities, but may not be transferred abroad without prior authorization by the IEME; such authorization is rarely given. Investment in Spanish real estate by nonresi- dents is freely permitted if financed with pesetas derived from convertible currencies or from balances in convertible peseta accounts. The IEME has empowered authorized banks to provide the investor with a document certifying that he owns such pesetas; this is the only requirement for offi- cial registration of the change in ownership. Cer- tain investments in real estate may also be financed from external accounts in internal pesetas (see sec- tion on Nonresident Accounts, above). Irrespective of the method of financing, country properties pur- chased may not exceed 4 hectares of irrigated land or 20 hectares of unirrigated land. Outward capital transfers by residents require approval. Requests by firms to invest abroad in the same line of business are granted rather liber- ally, provided that the investment contributes to the expansion of Spanish exports; this includes participation in foreign enterprises. Other direct 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN investments are subject to more severe restrictions. Portfolio investments by all residents and pur- chases of real estate abroad by private persons are severely restricted. Approval of requests by residents to grant loans to nonresidents is based on criteria similar to those applied to residents' requests to make direct investments abroad. Suppliers' credits by Spanish residents to non- residents require authorization; such authorization accompanies the export license. Before issuing the license, the IEME may be consulted about the granting of the credit. There has been no experience with the issuing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by nonresi- dents, nor with short-term credits by Spanish banks to nonresidents. Credits to nonresidents for trans- actions with Spain may, however, be authorized by the IEME. For transfers abroad of inheritances and dow- ries, authorizations are granted liberally when small amounts are involved. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Spain for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jew- elry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus tr ial users. Changes during 1967 During the year, the authorities began to permit the purchase by nonresidents of shares quoted on the stock exchange against payment from external accounts in internal pesetas. January 23. The global import quotas for 1967 were announced. As a result of fur ther liberaliza- tion, the number of these quotas was reduced from 63 to 59; their total value, calculated at the par value of Ptas 60 = US$1, was increased by US$18 million (12 per cen t) to US$166 million. For the second year in succession, the increase in value fell short of the aim declared in 1963, which was that 384 the total value of global quotas would be at least 20 per cent greater from year to year. January 24. A protocol to the payments agree- ment with Bulgaria was signed; the swing credit was increased to US$3.5 million. March 4. New trade and payments agreements with Yugoslavia were signed. Spain would accord OECD treatment to imports from Yugoslavia. May 18. New trade and payments arrangements with Colombia were signed. These were additional to the existing trade agreement and payments agreement. Spain would provide export credits for about US$60 million for deliveries of capital goods. May 25. A final act was signed concluding dis- cussions on the operation of the trade and pay- ments agreements with Mexico. Spain declared its willingness in principle to make available export credit for about US$60 million for deliveries of capital goods. July 7. The Director-General of Tariff Policy was given authority to suspend the issue of import declarations in respect of commodities whose prices were suspected of being abnormal and which could therefore pose a threat to Spanish products. July 31. By virtue of the authority granted to the Director-General of Tariff Policy on July 7, the processing of import declarations for various liber- alized commodities was suspended. August 5. Import duties on a large number of commodities, including chemicals, domestic appli- ances, and automobiles, were increased. August 23. The authority of July 7 was invoked to suspend the processing of import declarations for additional liberalized commodities. October 30. New trade and payments agree- ments with Ruman ia were signed. Settlements in respect of invisibles would henceforth be cleared through the agreement accounts, while previously only those in respect of trade were made on a clearing basis. Spain undertook to accord imports from Ruman ia OECD treatment. The agreements entered into force on January 1, 1968. November 20. The par value was changed from Ptas 60 = US$1 to Ptas 70 = US$1. December 5. An export tax was levied on cer- tain agricultural exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution December 12. Payments for direct transactions between Spain and Turkey could take place in con- vertible currencies between commercial banks in the two countries. Previously, they were channeled through agreement accounts denominated in U.S. dollars at the IEME. December 15. The monetary authorities sus- pended until fu r ther notice the domestic sale of gold to industrial users. December 27. Public sector agencies and cor- porations, including those at the provincial or local level, required the prior authorization of the Min- istry of Finance before they could contract credits or loans from foreign institutes or firms. The same requirement was imposed on private firms in respect of all operations involving the need for a governmental guarantee. SPAIN NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1968: January 1. New accounts in foreign currencies in Spain could only be opened in the names of persons, whether nationals or not, who are not domiciled in Spain. Existing foreign currency accounts held by persons domiciled in Spain were not affected. January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Mauritania was terminated; settlements hence- forth took place in convertible currencies. 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.55187 grams of fine gold per Sudanese Pound or LSd 1 = US$2.87156. Offi- cial rates for transactions in sterling are fixed by the Bank of Sudan (the central b ank ), whose rates for transactions with authorized banks and the Government are LSd 0.8348 buying, and LSd 0.8368 selling, per <£ stg. 1. The banks deal with the public at rates between LSd 0.8323 buy- ing, and LSd 0.8393 selling, per <£ stg. 1. Official rates for the U.S. dollar are fixed daily by the Bank of Sudan and are based on London market rates. The authorized banks quote their own rates for other currencies, based on market quotations in London. Certain old obligations expressed in pounds sterling are being settled at the exchange rate applicable to that currency on November 17, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, much of the detail being carried out by authorized banks. The issuance of registration forms and the licensing of imports and exports are the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, but all registration forms and licenses must be validated by the exchange control authori- ties (Bank of Sudan) or an authorized bank; banks may only validate registration forms and licenses for imports from Mainland China and countries with which bilateral payments agree- ments are in force. Prescription of Currency Transactions with bilateral countries 1 are nor- mally settled through the relevant bilateral account in Sudanese pounds or pounds sterling; however, most noncommercial invisibles except those pay- able to the United Arab Republic - have to be settled outside these accounts. Payments to all other countries and monetary areas (the "conver- tible area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to 1 The Sudan has b i la te ral paymen ts agreements w i th Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hung a ry, Ind ia, Poland, and the Un i ted A rab R epub l i c. 2 Paymen ts to the Un i ted A r ab R epub l ic for Suez Canal dues must be made in conver t ib le currencies, and most proceeds f rom invisible exports to the Un i ted A r ab Republic must be received in convertible currencies. All other paymen ts are settled through the b i la teral account. 386 the credit of any nonresident account or in any foreign currency, while receipts from the "conver- tible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds from any nonresident account or in any conver- tible or externally convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries other than bilateral countries may under certain circumstances main- tain accounts in Sudanese pounds designated non- resident accounts; these are exchangeable into any foreign currency. Bilateral accounts are used for most transactions with countries with which the Sudan has bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 1). Blocked Accounts are maintained by former residents; earnings accruing on these accounts may be transferred in reasonable amounts, and balances, which are not negotiable, may be used within the Sudan by the account holder for his personal expenses up to limits established in each case by the exchange control authorities. Except for the crediting of interest, all debits and credits to Blocked Accounts require approval. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports are prohibited for protective reasons. Imports from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Permitted imports are divided into three categories: ( 1) Imports not subject to licensing, including goods imported directly by the Government, books, periodicals, trade samples, and goods imported by parcel post or air freight, the value of which does not exceed LSd 2, or, for gifts, LSd 5. (2) Imports on an open general license list, which comprises a number of essential goods, including raw materials and some capital and consumer goods. The open general license is designed to permit imports of these goods freely from any source. (3) Imports subject to individual licensing. For goods that require individual licensing, import licenses must be obtained from the Min- istry of Commerce and Supply and validated by the Exchange Control Department of the central bank (or an authorized bank for imports from Mainland China and countries with which pay- ments agreements are in fo rce ). For goods on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the open general license list, importers must regis- ter their import transactions with the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, before entering into firm contracts with foreign suppliers; the registration form must be validated by the central bank (or an authorized bank for imports from Mainland China and countries with which payments agreements are in force). The Ministry of Commerce and Supply checks to see that prices are reasonable, while the central bank (or an authorized b ank) checks the observance of the prescription of cur- rency requirements and the terms of payment. If payment is made under a letter of credit, the authorized bank usually requires a 40 per cent cash margin upon its establishment. Each import license or registration form issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Supply must, within 30 days from the date of issue, be submitted to the central bank (or an authorized bank for imports from Mainland China and countries with which pay- ments agreements are in force) to be validated. The issue of an import license or the acceptance of a registration form implies that foreign exchange for the goods concerned will be granted. A surcharge of 5 per cent is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports. A stamp duty of LSd 1 is levied on the application form for each remittance in respect of imports; government remittances, however, are exempt. A license fee of LSd 2 is payable on all registration forms and licenses for imports valued at more than LSd 10. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require licenses. Remittances are permitted for family maintenance (up to LSd 500 a person a yea r ), educational expenses (up to LSd 840 a student a year for Europe), and for certain other purposes. Travel allowances for tourism and other purposes (except pilgrimages) are authorized by the Bank of Sudan at a basic rate equivalent to <£ stg. 50 for each adult, and <£ stg. 25 for each child, every other year.3 Allowances for travel to the United Arab Republic are the equivalent of LSd 100 for an adult, and LSd 25 a child, a year. Salaried foreign nationals not permanently resident in the Sudan 3 No exchange for leave or business travel was granted between June 6, 1967 and February 6, 1968. SUDAN are permitted to remit their bona fide current savings to any country other than Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Shipping charges, insurance premiums, profits, interest, and divi- dends earned by nonresidents may be remitted freely upon presentation of the required docu- ments. Income accruing to emigrants from blocked assets in the Sudan (including income from Blocked Accounts) may be remitted up to LSd 1,500 a year. Travelers may not take out of the Sudan more than LSd 10 in Sudanese currency; pilgrims may not export Sudanese banknotes. Stamp duties are payable on the application forms for virtually all remittances. The duty is LSd 5 on those for remittances of profits and LSd 0.25 on those for remittances for other purposes; exempt are government remittances. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. With the exception of exports to the United Arab Republic and exports of domestic products in short supply, which are subject to individual licensing, exports do not require a license. Exporters must, how- ever, submit an export form to an authorized bank. Authorized banks may only approve these forms if payment is in the form of cash against documents or against sight letters of credit; exports on credit require the approval of the Bank of Sudan. The proceeds of exports must be repatri- ated and surrendered through an authorized bank. When the terms of payment are cash against docu- ments or sight letter of credit, proceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the shipping docu- ments; in other cases a surrender date is usually specified. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from abroad in respect of invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks and are subject to the general prescription of currency requirements. Travelers entering the Sudan may bring in LSd 10 in Sudanese currency and any amount in notes and coins of other countries per- mitted by their regulations to be taken out of those countries; pilgrims, however, are not permitted to import Sudanese banknotes. 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Capital Under the Organization and Promotion of Industrial Investment Act of 1967,4 which super- seded an earlier law for the encouragement of foreign investment, incoming foreign capital for industrial investment may be registered and thus may receive, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. Emigrants of Sudanese nationality may on departure transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 1,500 to their new country. Upon emigration from the Stidan, resident foreigners may transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Sudan for numismatic purposes. Sub- ject to certain conditions, residents may also pur- chase, hold, and sell in the Sudan domestically produced gold. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of Sudan; such licenses are not nor- mally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus- trial users. Changes during 1967 January 25. A program of Sudanization of the import trade and the banking system was announced. February 27. The 50 per cent rebate from export duty on cotton expired. March 1. The export duty on extra-long-staple cotton was reduced from LSd 1 to LSd 0.75 per kantar. March 10. Importers were invited to submit to the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, not later than April 15, 1967, applications for import licenses representing their requirements for the period April 1 to September 30, 1967. Licenses would be valid for three months, and imports received by the importer during the first three 4 This investment law did not come into force un t il March 15, 1968. 388 months after the issue of the license could not exceed 50 per cent of the value of the license; the import of the remaining 50 per cent was made contingent upon renewal of the license. April 12. The trade target under the trade and payments agreement with the United Arab Repub- lic was raised from <£ stg. 5.25 million a year to <£ stg. 6.25 million a year in either direction. May 2. Sixty-seven commodities were added to the open general license list, which previously comprised 116 commodities or groups of commodities. June 1. The swing credit under the payments agreement with the United Arab Republic was temporarily increased from <£ stg. 1.5 million to <£ stg. 2.5 million. On November 18, it was raised to <£ stg. 2.916 million to take into account the devaluation of sterling. June 6. The granting of foreign exchange for leave and business travel was suspended. The sus- pension was terminated on February 6, 1968. June 7. The Bank of Sudan announced that foreign exchange for payments in respect of imports not covered by a letter of credit could only be released when evidence in the form of a cus- toms certificate of value was submitted to show that the goods had arrived in the Sudan. Applica- tions for the opening of import letters of credit required the prior approval of the Bank of Sudan, which was not granted unless an import license had been obtained. Exports, except those of cotton, had to be made against an irrevocable and confirmed letter of credit. These requirements were terminated on July 2, 1967. August 2. Authorized dealers were empowered to approve basic exchange allowances for leave travel to the United Arab Republic up to LSd 100 a year for each adult and LSd 25 a year for each child. September 17. Importers were invited to sub- mit to the Ministry of Commerce and Supply applications for imports representing their require- ments for the period October 1, 1967 to April 1, 1968. License applications could be submitted at any tirne during that period. November 1. The import and export targets under the trade and payments agreement with India were raised from <£ stg. 5.6 million a year ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to <£ stg. 8.6 million a year (predevaluation rates). November 23. It was announced that pay- ments in sterling for imports that were contracted for and entered the Sudan on or before Novem- ber 18, 1967 were to be settled at the predevalua- tion sterling rate. The old rate would also apply, with specified exceptions, to payments for current invisibles resulting from contracts in sterling entered into on or before November 18, and to repayment of principal and interest on loans and credits secured by the private sector and due on or before November 18. The profits to be made by the monetary authorities on such sales of sterling at the old rate would be credited to a spe- cial account in the name of the Government. SUDAN 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.471230 gram of fine gold per Surinam Guilder or Sur. f. 1.88585 = US$1. The official rates are Sur. f. 1.87 buying, and Sur. f. 1.90 selling, per US$1. The rates for other currencies are based on the quotations for the U.S. dollar in terms of those currencies. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. The commercial banks have authority to provide for- eign exchange for certain current transactions. Prescription of Currency Settlements must, in general, be made in con- vertible currencies;l payments to and from the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Nether- lands Antilles guilders or Surinam guilders. Pay- ments to and from the U.S.S.R. must be made through bilateral accounts in Netherlands guilders kept with authorized banks in the Netherlands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open and hold accounts in foreign currency with domestic banks. Non- residents other than banks may freely open accounts in Surinam guilders with domestic banks; permitted debits and credits are subject in certain cases to a specific or general license. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for protective reasons. Some com- modities are subject to import quotas; all other imports are licensed freely. The import license serves as a payment license, exchange being made available upon presentation of the license. 1 In the Surinam regulations, these are listed as Aus- t r i an schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Dan ish kroner, deutsche m a r k, East Car ibbean dollars, French f rancs, G u y a na dollars, I ta l ian lire, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds s ter l ing, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. 390 Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require individual licenses. The commercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sur. f. 100 an item a month on account of certain services (advertising expenses, bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, etc.); up to Sur. f. 300 a year from each remittor in respect of gifts, subject to a limit of Sur. f. 300 a year on any beneficiary's receipt of gifts from Suri- nam residents; and up to Sur. f. 450-600 a month for the support of the remittor's own fam i ly in the Netherlands Antilles or the Netherlands ( fam i ly remittances up to the same amounts to other coun- tries require a license, which is granted upon appli- ca t ion). The basic exchange allowance to resi- dents for travel is Sur. f. 500-2,000 a person for each trip, the amount depending on the destina- tion; the authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of travel exchange not being permitted un t il three days before departure. Trav- elers may take out a maximum of Sur. f. 100 in Surinam currency. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or de- preciation of direct investments, may be made if an application supported by an auditor's report is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Control Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for gold, exports of local products do not require licenses, provided that the exporter undertakes to surrender the proceeds within six months to an authorized bank. A certain type of local timber used in the manufac ture of plywood and particle board may be exported only in special circumstances. All re-exports and barter exports require a license. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in foreign currency without limit, but not more than Sur. f. 100 in domestic currency; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution resident travelers must surrender any foreign cur- rency in excess of the equivalent of Sur. f. 500. Capital A declaration of the Foreign Exchange Control Board in 1960 provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liquidation of fully or partly foreign-owned com- panies or other forms of enterprise. It also pro- vides for the transfer of profits. An Investment Law passed on February 3, 1960 provides for additional incentives to private foreign investment in Surinam. Taxable earnings (dividends) must be trans- ferred w i th in a period of three years; otherwise, they become part of the firm's working capital and may only be transferred in annual quotas of 20 per cent. Licenses are granted on application for transfers abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a maximum of Sur. f. 25,000. For estates of more than Sur. f. 25,000, fur ther annual transfers above the max imum of Sur. f. 25,000 are permitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The repatriation of personal assets belong- ing to departing persons, including emigrants, is permitted up to specified amounts. Subject to certain requirements, residents may purchase in specified countries Surinam corporate shares that have been designated as negotiable by SURINAM the Foreign Exchange Control Board. Transfers for investment in foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinam interests will benefit. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Surinam for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Resi- dents other than the monetary authorities, pro- ducers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by author- ized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Changes during 1967 March 7. The controls over the purchase and use of travel exchange were tightened; the amounts of the basic exchange allowances for travel were not affected. 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Exchange System The par value is 0.171783 gram of fine gold per Swedish Krona or SKr 5.17321 = US$1. The Sveriges Riksbank is ready to carry out transac- tions in U.S. dollars with authorized ("exchange") banks at the official limits of SKr 5.135 buying, and SKr 5.2125 selling, per US$1. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Practically all exchange transactions must be carried out by or through authorized banks. For the guidance of authorized banks and without any commitment on its part, the Riksbank has informed the banks of limit rates for 13 cur- encies,1 based upon the above limits for the U.S. dollar and the limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. In transactions in these currencies with the public, the authorized banks apply buying and selling rates, the average of which must lie within the established limits. The difference between the buying and selling rates applied by authorized banks may not exceed that prescribed by the Riksbank for each of the cur- rencies in question. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Also, they may purchase, spot, f rom foreign banks and other nonresidents foreign currencies against any foreign currency or Swedish kronor credited to a Regular Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). They may sell, spot, to foreign banks and other nonresidents foreign currencies against any other foreign cur- rency or Swedish kronor debited to a Regular Account. Authorized banks may conclude with residents other than banks forward exchange transactions covering current payments and authorized pay- ments for periods not exceeding (1) 24 months in respect of receipts for exports, freight, and charter services, ( 2 ) 12 months in respect of payments for imports, freight, and charter services, and (3) 6 months in respect of other receipts and payments. Authorized banks may conclude forward transac- tions for a period not exceeding 12 months with other authorized banks or, under certain condi- tions, with foreign banks. Such transactions between banks may, however, be for periods exceeding 12 months if made in cover of forward deals with residents. Forward market rates are left to the interplay of market forces. Sweden accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Sveriges Riksbank through its Exchange Control Board.2 The Board's decisions may be appealed to the Board of Directors of the Riksbank. Author- ized banks and some other authorized agencies implement the exchange control regulations. All current payments are exempt from exchange control, provided that they are made through the intermediary of an authorized bank in accordance with the currency prescriptions issued by the Riks- bank. The authorized banks have been granted general licenses giving them power to approve various payments that are still subject to exchange control. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Trade, except those for foods, which are issued by the National Agricul- tural Marketing Board. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of Eastern Germany, with which there is a privately concluded compensation agreement, must be made by crediting kronor to a Special Account related to that country. Receipts from Eastern Germany may be accepted in any convertible currency or in kronor through the Special Account of that country or through any Regular Account. Payments to residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency or 1 These currenc ies are Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish ma rkkas, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2 The Exchange Control Board has seven members. Four of them and the ir alternates are appointed by the Gove rnmen t; the other members and the ir alternates are appointed by the Board of Directors of the Sveriges R i k s b a n k. 392 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by crediting kronor to any nonresident account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). Receipts f rom other countries may be accepted in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor debited to any Regular Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kronor with authorized banks in Sweden: Regular Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other nonresident accounts are Foreign Exchange Accounts and Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents domiciled in Sweden. Regular Accounts are held by residents of all countries except Eastern Germany. Regular Accounts may be credited with transfers f rom other Regular Accounts, with authorized payments to countries other than Eastern Germany by resi- dents of Sweden, and with sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for transfers to any other Regular Account and for authorized pay- ments to residents of Sweden, and they may be exchanged into any foreign currency. The credit- ing of Regular Accounts with proceeds f rom sales of foreign currencies or with transfers from other Regular Accounts may not result in the creation of abnormal balances. Restricted Accounts are held mainly by persons who had been residents of Sweden but who became nonresidents af ter emigrating from that country. The accounts may be credited with interest accrued to, and earnings from, assets in Sweden, and proceeds f rom sales of assets in Sweden, owned by account holders, and funds transferred from abroad. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for payments in Sweden for main- tenance expenses of the account holder and his f am i l y; minor merchandise purchases; taxes and other official charges; and expenses related to the administration and maintenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; purchases of Swedish bonds denominated solely in Swedish kronor and of real estate; and gifts to, and the support of, persons domiciled in Sweden. Foreign Exchange Accounts3 are in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with 3 Residents may also m a in t a in Foreign Exchange Accoun ts in fore ign currencies. Such accounts may be credited w i th au thor ized receipts in foreign currencies, and be debited for au tho r ized paymen ts in fo re ign cur- rencies. SWEDEN authorized payments in foreign currencies due to the account holder and with accrued interest. Balances on such accounts may be used for making authorized payments in foreign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with transfers from abroad of foreign currencies, or transfers from Regular Accounts or from other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for transfers to any nonresident account. Balances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents domiciled in Sweden may be maintained by banks and centers of agricultural credit associations. These accounts may be credited with payments in Sweden in favor of an account holder and with accrued interest; they may be used for withdrawals in kronor in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments All imports are prohibited when originating in or shipped f rom Rhodesia. With the main excep- tion of a few agricultural and fishery products, practically all goods are free from quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than (1) Japan, the Bonin Islands, the Ryukyu Islands, and certain other Pacific islands under U.S. control, and (2) Alba- nia, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Mon- golia, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Most imports from countries in the second group, except Eastern Germany, are also liberalized. All imports from Japan require licenses; these are in principle issued freely, except for a few specified commodities. Imports of spe- cified textiles are subject to specific license when originating in the Republic of Korea. Technically, the exceptions to the liberalization regime are gov- erned by two "negative" lists. Imports not covered by the liberalization measures require individual licenses, some of which are granted in accordance with bilateral trade arrangements. Payments for imports, including normal advance payments, may, as current payments, be made without permission through authorized banks and without the formality of presenting an import license. If the conditions specified for current 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN payments (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) are not met, an exchange control permit is required. Importers are permitted to utilize for- eign commercial credits, provided that these do not exceed what is regarded as customary in the trade. Payments for Invisibles Exchange control regulations define and list those categories of payments abroad which are considered as current payments. Persons domi- ciled in Sweden may make such payments without restriction in favor of persons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital payments are not made in the guise of current payments. Pay- ments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 100 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks. For tourism, recreational travel, or study abroad, residents may acquire and take out freely up to SKr 6,000 a trip in Swedish and foreign banknotes and coins and other means of payment; applications for additional amounts must be sub- mitted to the Riksbank and are given liberal treat- ment. Authorized banks and other authorized agencies may allocate to residents, without restric- tion, exchange for business travel abroad. Nonresidents leaving Sweden may export freely Swedish and foreign banknotes and other means of payment which they brought into, or duly acquired in, the country. No traveler may, however, with- out specific permission take out of Sweden more than SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are exempt f rom license if pay- ment is to be received in conform i ty with the gen- eral regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ); all exports to Eastern Ger- many, however, require licenses. Proceeds from exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a foreign currency account w i th a Swedish authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank against Swedish kronor. 394 Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those f rom exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each person entering Sweden may bring in up to SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins, and unlimited amounts of other means of payment. Capital Direct investment abroad by Swedish residents requires individual authorization, which normally is granted. Residents may, on application, transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational pur- poses, real estate valued at no more than SKr 75,000, subject to certain limitations regard- ing the cost of a lot and the time allowed for building on it. A Swedish resident when emigrat- ing is, on application, permitted to transfer up to SKr 100,000; af ter one calendar year (beyond the year of em ig ra t ion ), he will normally be permitted to transfer the remainder of his assets. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresi- dents are permitted. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts from abroad on account of life, pension, and annu i ty contracts; contractual amortization of their investments; the sale of foreign securities, real estate abroad, and personal property held by them abroad; gifts, and inheritances. Residents can accept other kinds of capital receipts from abroad only upon approval from the Riksbank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other than normal suppliers' credit from nonresi- dents must receive authorization to do so; each case is considered on its merits, but in principle borrowing abroad to finance economic activity in Sweden is not currently authorized. The Riksbank permits exporters, however, to cover their normal suppliers' credits through foreign borrowing. Swedish importers also can be granted permission to take up credit abroad to finance contemplated imports. In this context, authorized banks are upon application permitted to extend to the for- eign counterpart of a Swedish exporter or importer credit intended to finance certain specified import and export transactions, and to refinance such credit through foreign borrowing in a correspond- ing amoun t. Permission for the financing of the afore-mentioned export and import transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution requires that the credits conform to normal com- mercial practice. Foreign-owned companies in Sweden usually are permitted to borrow from the parent companies. Permission is needed for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by non- residents; bond issues in favor of other Scandi- navian countries have been admitted when the state of the Swedish capital market was considered to allow them. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require authorization, which normally is given. Liquida- tion of such investments and the transfer of pro- ceeds, including appreciation, require authoriza- tion, which always is given. Investment by non- residents in Swedish real estate requires approval according to regulations other than exchange con- trol regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell foreign securities to nonresidents. The purchase of listed, as well as unlisted, foreign securities by residents from nonresidents requires authorization. As a rule, such authorization is not granted unless the purchase is made with proceeds from the sale by the purchaser to a nonresident of other foreign securities expressed in foreign currencies (switch- ing ), and is made within six months of that sale. Residents may buy foreign securities from other residents without authorization. Residents are upon application permitted to purchase abroad Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor, provided that an affidavit can be produced showing either ( 1) that at no time since January 1, 1959 have the securities been owned by a person domiciled in Sweden, or (2) that the securities have been acquired with the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities from a person domiciled in Sweden. The authorized banks and stockbrokers may, by virtue of a general license, handle purchases by nonresidents of Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor when pay- ment is to be made in the form of other similar securities (switches), provided that (1) the foreign seller and buyer is the same person in each case; SWEDEN (2) the afore-mentioned affidavit requirements are met; (3) foreign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; and (4) not more than two weeks pass between the date of the purchase from, and the date of the sale to, the foreign party. Gold Gold in any form may be held, purchased, and sold within Sweden. Imports and exports of gold and gold alloys require licenses issued by the Riks- bank; the types of gold affected are unmanufac- tured gold, most types of semimanufactured gold, and gold coins (except coins imported by or on behalf of collectors or collections). Import licenses are normally granted to jewelers, dental labora- tories, and users of gold for industrial and scientific purposes, as well as to persons and firms importing for resale to these categories of users. As a gen- eral rule, no licenses are issued for the import of gold to be held on private account. Commercial imports and exports of articles con- taining gold, such as jewelry, may be made freely without a license. The same applies to imports and exports of gold coins of numismatic value and intended for collectors or collections. Changes during 1967 February 20. Imports of specified textiles that previously were liberalized were made subject to specific license when originating in the Republic of Korea; an agreement with Korea on the applica- tion of quantitative import restrictions was signed on April 13. November 19. The amount up to which pay- ments to nonresidents could, regardless of their purpose, be made freely, was reduced from S K r S O O t o S K r l O O. November 19. The making of payments to non- residents in respect of the repurchase abroad by a resident of Swedish securities denominated in Swedish kronor required an individual license; previously, such payments were freely permitted by virtue of a general authorization. 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND l Exchange Rate System The gold content of the Swiss Franc is estab- lished at 6%10 (= 0.20322 ) gram of fine gold. The Swiss National Bank maintains the U.S. dollar rate in a free market between limits of Sw F 4.295 buying, and Sw F 4.45 selling, per US$1. The free market rate on December 29, 1967 was Sw F 4.3240 per US$1. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Switzerland and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned.2 Exchange is controlled in respect of most transactions with eight countries with which Switzerland has bilateral agreements or in respect of which Switzerland has enacted auton- omous regulations. Bilateral agreements cover Switzerland's payments with seven countries or monetary areas ;3 Switzerland also controls its pay- ments with one other.4 In accordance with the provisions of several of these agreements, official rates are applied to transactions covered by the agreements. This domain of regulated settlements is known as the sector of controlled payments. All settlements outside this sector (including those with all other countries), as well as certain settle- ments involving Egyptian pounds which represent compensation for nationalization of Swiss property in the United Arab Republic, may be made freely at free market rates. Foreign banknotes are nego- tiated freely in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import, export, and pay- ments control, the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory for the duration of the treaty of March 29, 1923 between Switzerland and the Principality of Liechtenstein 1 Switzerland is not a member of the In te rna t ional Mone tary Fund. 2 The above-mentioned upper and lower l im i ts for the U.S. do l lar rate have been fixed in accordance w i th the European Mone tary Agreement ( EMA ), of wh ich Switzerland is a member. Since all o ther member coun- tries of the EMA have done likewise, corresponding upper and lower l im i ts are also operative in respect of the rates for the Swiss f r a nc in terms of the other EMA currencies. 3 Bu lg a r i a, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, Poland, R um a n i a, Un i ted A r ab Repub l ic, and Yugoslavia. 4 Eastern G e rm any, in c lud ing East Berlin. 396 concerning the union of the Principality of Liech- tenstein with the Swiss customs territory.5 Administration of Control The authority to impose measures for the con- trol of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting, as a rule, on the proposals of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Political Department. The Swiss National Bank is the executive authority in matters of currency, and the Swiss Compensa- tion Office, together with the authorized banks, is entrusted with the operative part of payments control. Prescription of Currency The currency and manner of settlement on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles in the sector of controlled payments (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) are prescribed in accordance with the provisions of the relevant payments agreements and/or by the Swiss regula- tions. Settlements with countries in this sector are made in Swiss francs; however, certain settlements with the United Arab Republic may be made in Egyptian pounds through special accounts main- tained by the Swiss Compensation Office at the Central Bank of Egypt, and certain settlements with Cuba must be made in Swiss francs to the debit or credit of a special account at the Swiss National Bank. In all other cases, settlements are not subject to regulations involving prescription of currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts related to the sector of controlled payments may be grouped as follows: (1) accounts related to Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and Yugoslavia, which are centralized with the Swiss National Bank, and (2) the "decentralized" accounts, comprising those which may be held with the Swiss National Bank and with authorized banks in Switzerland. The accounts of the second group are of two kinds: the accounts of Eastern Ger- 5 For purposes of capital control, however, certain juridical persons or companies domiciled in the P r inc ipa l- ity of Liechtenstein are considered as nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution many, which are transferable only to other accounts of the same nationality, and the accounts of the United Arab Republic, which are subject to special treatment. Nonresident accounts concerned with transac- tions outside the sector of controlled payments— mainly those related to countries not listed above —may be transferred freely among themselves. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia require a license; licenses will not be granted in excess of the average volume of imports for 1964, 1965, and 1966. With a few exceptions, imports into Switzerland f rom other countries may be made freely. The only commodities subject to license irrespective of their origin are certain agricultural products. Import permits for goods still under license are, in general, granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agricultural products. Settlements are made automatically for author- ized imports from countries to which the Swiss control regulations are applicable, i.e., the sector of controlled payments. Payments for imports f rom all other countries may be made freely through the free marke t. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made f ree ly; however, paymen ts to Eastern Germany (includ- ing East Ber l in) and countries with which Switzer- land has bilateral payments agreements are con- trolled. The export of Swiss and foreign bankno tes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export ( inc lud ing re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. Export proceeds received through the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss currency in observance of the existing regulations. Other export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles received through the sector of controlled payments are converted into SWITZERLAND Swiss francs in observance of the existing regula- tions. Proceeds received in convertible currencies are free ly disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Capital Transfers of capital f rom countries in the sec- tor of controlled payments require licenses if they are made through the sector of controlled payments; transfers of capital to such countries do not require licenses. Transfers of capital to and from other countries may be made freely, with the exception of certain outgoing transfers exceeding Sw F 5 million each, which require permission; these include foreign issues in Switzer- land of bonds denominated in Swiss francs. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons of foreign nationality who are domiciled abroad require approval by the canton where the property is situated. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold in certain forms are subject to customs du ty (exempt are bars and certain coins) or sales tax (exempt are coins and ba r s ). Import and export licenses are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold; these are issued freely. Changes during 1967 January 1. Guidelines by which the Swiss National Bank established a ceiling of 7 per cent on the growth in total domestic bank credit in 1967 went into effect. January 1. Exports of certain machinery for the production of watches were liberalized. January 1. The withholding tax on capital earnings was increased from 27 to 30 per cent, and the 3 per cent coupon tax on interest and dividends was abolished. January 1. Imports of sheep, mu t ton, and lamb were freed f rom quan t i ta t ive restriction. 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND February 13. It was announced that Switzer- land would reduce imports from Rhodesia in 1967 to the average for the last three years. March 2. An agreement was signed with Cuba providing for settlement over eight years of claims arising from the nationalization of certain Swiss property in Cuba and from certain payments arrears. It entered into force provisionally on the same date. March 17. The Credit Decree of April 24, 1964 expired. Banks could again pay interest on all foreign funds 6 held in Swiss franc accounts (previously restricted, with minor exceptions, to balances established before January 1, 1964), and they were no longer obliged to offset through money exports or payments to the Swiss National Bank any net addition to foreign-held Swiss franc 6 Funds owned ( 1) by physical persons of foreign na t iona l i ty domiciled in a country outside Switzerland other than Liechtenstein, (2) by juridical persons or companies having their principal office in a country out- side Switzerland other than Liechtenstein, or (3) by cer- tain ju r id ical persons or companies domiciled in Liechten- stein. deposits. The Decree of April 24, 1964 imposing a requirement of notification for public issues of fixed-interest securities also expired. The Swiss Bankers' Association announced an agreement under which the member banks undertook to report all new fixed-interest issues of over Sw F 8 million; all new issues would be coordinated by a committee headed by a representative of the National Bank. July 1. A special quota for the import of Argen- tine wine in the period to June 30, 1968 went into effect. September 15. The Swiss National Bank revoked with immediate effect its credit guidelines for 1967 (see January 1 ). November 24. The large banks decided, in agreement with the Swiss National Bank, to abstain until fu r ther notice from forward and credit sales of gold to residents and nonresidents. November 27. The large banks ceased until fu r ther notice to accept orders from foreign cen- tral and commercial banks for purchases of gold. 398 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System On July 29, 1947, a par value for the Syrian Pound was established by Syria with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There are two exchange markets, the official or "export exchange" market and the free or "parallel" mar- ket with a fluctuating rate. The official rates are LS 3.80 buying, and LS 3.82 selling, per US$1. The free market rates on December 31, 1967 were LS 4.17 buying, and LS 4.20 selling, per US$1. The supply in the official market consists mainly of the proceeds of major exports and of oil royal- ties received by the Government. The official mar- ket rate applies to all major exports;l to imports of essential consumer goods, basic raw materials, and capital equipment for Syrian industries; to invisibles related to trade settled through the offi- cial market, remittances for study abroad, and remittances for servicing government debt; and to capital transactions by the Government. The free market rate applies to all other transactions, including all merchanting trade and all imports by parcel post. Moreover, importers with bills over- due for any period of time are from time to time permitted to purchase exchange in the free market to settle their obligations. The authorized commercial bank charges a commission of %0 of 1 per cent on sales or pur- chases of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is determined by the Government through the Min- istry of Economy and Foreign Trade, usually on the suggestions of the Exchange Office, which works under the general directives of the Foreign Exchange Commission (but see footnote 5). Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange 1 Crude petroleum, mineral oils, asphalt, raw and tanned leather, wood, iron and steel scrap, copper scrap, cotton yarn, wheat, barley, corn millet, chick peas, lentils, raw wool, raw cotton, cotton oil, cottonseed, cotton cake, sorghum, corn, sesame, tobacco, wheat flour, oleaginous grains and fruits, olive oil, peanut oil, linseed o i l, sugar, and certain other agr icu l tural products. Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for all import payments, invisibles, and capital transactions are issued by the Exchange Office. Authorized commercial banks deal in foreign exchange both in the official and the free market. They open letters of credit or accept bills for collection only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. At present there is only one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. The usual requirement is that proceeds of exports to all countries except those with which Syria has bilateral payments agreements 2 be obtained in the currency of the country to which the goods are exported, if it is an "acceptable" currency,3 or in any other convertible currency, at the exporter's choice. Proceeds from exports to neighboring countries may be obtained in the currencies of those countries. Prescription of currency require- ments are not applied to outgoing payments. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be held by nonresidents 4 and may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized banks and with payments for goods. They may be debited to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder or, with the prior approval of the Exchange Office, to other coun- tries, and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Repub- lic. Transfers abroad from these accounts require the prior approval of the Exchange Office, which is granted freely. Nonresidents may also keep 2 Syria has bilateral payments agreements with Ceylon, Mainland China, Cuba, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, Spain, United Arab Republic, and U.S.S.R. 3 "Acceptable" currencies are those for which the Exchange Office quotes rates: Belgian francs, deutsche mark, Egyptian pounds, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Lebanese pounds, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 4 Residents are defined as including all physical persons of Syrian nationality, irrespective of domicile, and all persons who have been l iv ing in Syria for more than a year. 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC accounts in foreign currencies, but only if these accounts result from an inflow of capital. Trans- fers from these accounts are made freely. Tem- porary resident accounts may be opened in the name of non-Syrians in neighboring countries who do not reside permanently in Syria. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa are prohibited. Many basic commodities (including green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and trac- tors) are only imported by a state trading agency, the Import and Export Company of the Public Sector (SIMEX) or, for their own account, by certain official agencies. Imports are divided into three main categories: (1) imports prohibited by decree and specified in a Prohibited List, which comprises some 60 tariff items —mostly goods that are produced domestically, including some textile products; (2) imports on a Restrictive List, which comprises some 160 tariff items of less essential goods which are temporarily not admitted either for balance of payments reasons or for protective reasons; and (3) all imports not included in the above two lists and which are authorized on their merits. Certain prohibited imports may be acquired in payments agreement countries through compensation transactions involving the export of Syrian industrial products. Virtually all imports must be made direct from the country of origin, without the intermediary of any firm conducting a business established outside Syria; the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. Permitted imports, except those made by SIMEX, require individual import licenses before the placing of orders. SIMEX may conclude import transactions and have the goods shipped before an import license is granted; the license must be obtained, however, before customs clear- ance. Goods included in the Restrictive List may be imported only under certain conditions of domestic need, under special individual license from the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and with the prior approval of the Ministry of Industry or the Ministry of Supply. Certain imports (not on the Restrictive or Prohibited Lists) from Iraq, Kuwait, Jordan, Lebanon, Saudi 400 Arabia, and the United Arab Republic are not subject to license, in accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement or the bilateral agree- ments of Syria with some of these countries. These imports include agricultural commodities, live- stock, and some industrial products.5 Retailers may import, with payment through the free market, most commodities whose importation is not prohibited, provided that the goods enter the country as parcel post valued at not over LS 250 and that the retailers do not receive the same com- modity more often than once a fortnight. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, including raw materials, petroleum, and petroleum products. In addition, there are the following taxes on imports which are collected by the customs: (1) a statistical tax of 4 per cent, (2) a consumption tax of 4 per cent for all imports for which the tariff rate is more than 1 per cent, (3) a defense tax of 15 per cent of the tar iff, (4) a school tax of 10 per cent of the consumption tax plus 2 per cent of the ta r i f f, (5) a harbor tax of 3 per cent of the tariff for goods transferred by ships through Syrian harbors (most commodities can be imported only through Syrian harbors), and (6) an ocean tax of %o °f 1 Per cent of the value of imports for all goods transferred by ship in any harbor, including those of neighboring countries. Exchange licenses are required to make import payments. Payment for imports may be made by opening letters of credit, time drafts, bills for col- lection, or by crediting a nonresident account or a temporary resident account. The importer sub- mits to the authorized commercial bank the import license and the pro forma invoice which, in turn, are submitted by the bank to the Exchange Office for approval; this is granted according to the avail- ability of exchange. Import licenses prescribe which exchange market must be used; when a documentary letter of credit is opened, the Exchange Office has the authority to prescribe the use of free market exchange even when the import 5 The supervision of the allocation of exchange for specified less essential imports, and of the opening of letters of credit for those imports, was fu r ther tightened by Notice No. 29 of Janua ry 20, 1968, of the M in is t ry of Economy and Foreign Trade; both required the prior approval of a Foreign Exchange Commission that was established in the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution license specifies payment through the official mar- ket. A f ter approval is granted, the commercial banks open the letters of credit or accept the bills for collection. Specified imports, mainly essential consumer goods, basic raw materials, and capital goods for Syrian industries, may be financed through the official marke t; all others must be financed through the free market. For imports financed through the official market, the Exchange Office distinguishes ad hoc between essential and less essential goods; exchange for the former is provided more promptly than for the latter. The issuance of authorizations for the purchase of offi- cial and free ma rket exchange for certain catego- ries of imports is delayed for periods of several months. However, importers with overdue bills are from time to time permitted, subject to approval by the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, to purchase exchange in the par- allel market to settle their obligations. Payments for invisibles Payments for invisibles related to trade effected at the official rate, for servicing government debt, and for study abroad may be made at the official market rate. Commissions due to nonresident intermediaries are nontransferable and payable in Syrian pounds only. The insurance for imports under documentary credit must be effected locally. All other payments for invisibles must be made through the free marke t. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange purchased at the free market rate as follows: for travel to Lebanon, the equivalent of LS 50 a trip; for travel to other Arab countries and Turkey, the equivalent of <£ stg. 50 a trip; and for travel to other countries, the equivalent of <£ stg. 125 a trip. For children under ten years of age, the allowances are 50 per cent of these amounts. Fixed allocations at the free market rate also exist for other invisibles, as follows: 60 per cent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian A rab Republic; 50 per cent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and in terna t ional missions in the Syrian Arab Republic; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for dividends accruing to nonresidents from Syrian securities; and LS 250 a person a month for private donations and charities. In all cases, SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC applications for additional amounts must be sub- mitted for approval to the Exchange Office. Nonresidents leaving the country are permitted to take out foreign exchange and Syrian currency within the limit of the declaration they have made when entering the Syrian Arab Republic; the amount of Syrian currency taken out may not exceed LS 100. For additional amounts, the approval of the Exchange Office is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, cotton, cottonseed, barley, and their derivatives are nationalized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of a few goods to any country and all exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of the main export products and of all goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For all private exports, however, a repatriation commitment must be executed in which the exporter under takes to bring the proceeds to Syria and surrender them in the appropriate exchange marke t. The proceeds of all major exports (see foot- note 1) must be surrendered at the official buying rate. The proceeds of other exports must be sur- rendered by sale in the free market. Exports of cotton are subject to an export tax of 12% per cent ad valorem. All exports of agricul- tural products (including cotton) are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 10 per cent. All the above taxes are collected by the customs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles, including tourism and the local expenditures of oil companies (but not royalties), may be sold in the free market. Non- residents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in unlimited foreign exchange in any form, provided that they present a written statement of the amount upon entry; this statement is required only when the traveler intends to take out the foreign exchange he brought in. Nonresi- dents are permitted to bring in not more than LS 100 in Syrian currency. Capital Imports of capital in the form of foreign exchange are free for residents and nonresidents 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC and may be effected through the free market. Exports of capital require the approval of the Exchange Office; if approved, they must be effected through the free market. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in Syria without restriction. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry normally require licenses. Changes during 1967 January. The exchange rates in the free market were henceforth set by the Commercial Bank of Syria, acting in consultation with the Exchange Office. January 1. Decree No. 795 of October 18, 1966 went into effect which listed the com- modities that could be imported freely and with- out an import license from member countries of the Arab Common Market, and the commodities that could from that date freely and without an export license be exported to those countries. January 1. Decree No. 925 amended the list attached to Decree No. 795 of October 18, 1966 enumerating the industrial products of Syrian origin whose export to countries of the Arab Com- mon Market was unrestricted. January 9. Decree No. 14 reserved the export of cottonseed cake to SIMEX. January 10. Decree No. 17 prohibited the import of a number of commodities; they included certain textiles, carpets, cosmetics, electric domes- tic appliances, phonographs, tape recorders, and phonograph records. January 10. Imports by parcel post of the commodities affected by Decree No. 17 could, by virtue of Decree No. 18, be made only by retail traders authorized to deal in the goods concerned. January 18. With retroactive effect to Novem- ber 20, 1966, Decree No. 38 added seed wheat, cottonseed, seed potatoes, and insecticides to the commodities (listed in Decree No. 854 of Novem- ber 10, 1966) that could be imported w i th official exchange. January 26. Decree No. 966 of December 26, 1966 was published and took effect, which 402 exempted from advance deposit requirements all imports of agencies and companies in the public sector. March 29. Exports by the public sector of ginned raw cotton were freed from export licens- ing. April 15. Instruction No. 51 of the Administra- tive Committee of the Exchange Office permitted the granting of travel exchange to residents travel- ing overland to Turkey or, through Turkey, to Europe. May 7. A separate state trading organization was established for the import and export of medical and pharmaceutical products. June 5. Decree No. 334 suspended the export of many foods tuffs and other prime necessities. It went into effect on July 27 and was revoked by Decree No. 477 of July 23, which went into effect on September 7, 1967. July 13. Withdrawals from bank accounts (demand and time deposit accounts) were limited to LS 3,000 a month for each account; exempt from this ceiling were withdrawals for the purpose of making payments on insurance policies, of dis- bursing profits, or of settling debts contracted prior to June 5, 1967. July 13. Decree No. 208 tightened restrictions on foreign payments and on the opening of import letters of credit. The prior approval of a special commission in the Ministry of Economy and For- eign Trade was required for all exchange or trade transactions other than the following, for which letters of credit could be opened and transfers could be made: (1) imports made by SIMEX, government departments and agencies, the Cereals and Milling Organization, and the Tobacco Monopoly; ( 2) all other commodities contracted for by the public or private sector, provided that letters of credit had been opened before June 7, 1967 or that the goods were shipped before that date; ( 3) industrial raw materials; ( 4) f ru i ts and vegetables, lambs and cattle; (5) spare parts and replacement parts; (6) solid and liquid fuel and lubricants; (7) films originating in payments agreement countries; (8) goods for the Damascus Trade Fair; (9) diplomatic salaries and expendi- tures; (10) expenses of Syrian students, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution expenses of foreign travel and medical treatment abroad; (11) pensions of persons resident abroad; (12) amortization and interest on loans taken up by the public sector; (13) payments in respect of trademarks; (14) salaries of foreign experts; and (15) various other specified invisibles. Import licenses for imports not covered by this enumeration would only be granted if no t rans fer of foreign exchange were involved. July 23. Decree No. 478 extended the import monopoly of SIMEX to bicycles, motor bicycles, and radio receivers. This decree was revoked by Decree No. 525 of August 14, 1967. September 6. The payments agreement with the United Arab Republic was modified. The swing credit was increased to <£ stg. 1 million. Certain reciprocal tariff reductions were also agreed upon. September 7. Decree No. 475 of July 23, 1967 went into effect, which exempted public sector exports of wheat and barley f rom export license. September 7. Decree No. 476 of July 23, 1967 went into effect, which prohibited the import of beer, furs, and certain textile products. September 18. Decree No. 608 permitted compensation transactions involving the exchange of locally manufac tured goods against prohibited imports. Proposals for such transactions had to be submitted for review by a special interde- partmental commission. The measure went into effect on October 19, 1967. September 20. Decree No. 616 of the Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade limited the allo- cation of official exchange to some 300 specified commodities. For these also, however, the Exchange Office could prescribe the use of exchange purchased in the free market. All com- modities not listed in the decree could only be financed in the free market. The new regula- tion revoked Decree No. 854 of November 10, 1966 (as amended) and went into effect on October 19, 1967. September 21. Decree No. 519 of August 12, 1967 went into effect, which prohibited the import of cigarettes. SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC September 24. Export control was reorganized by Decree No. 625, which went into effect on October 26. Certain exports were freed from licensing or from the repatriation commitment (engagement d'exportation). The prohibition of all exports to Israel and Rhodesia was extended to South Africa. The new regulation contained two 'revised lists of commodities whose export proceeds were required to be repatriated through the official market and the free market, respec- tively. Decree No. 853 of November 10, 1966 (as amended) was revoked. September 28. Decree No. 629 abolished the advance import deposit requirements of 15, 40, and 70 per cent; in recent years their scope had been progressively reduced by exemptions granted to public sector imports. The new measure went into effect on October 26, 1967. September 29. Decree No. 547 of August 23, 1967 went into effec t, which revoked the export prohibition of Decree No. 595 for specified food- stuffs and fodder. September 29. Decree No. 541 of August 23 went into effect. The proceeds from exports to specified countries could be surrendered without submission of documentation showing the value of the goods exported. These countries were Afghanistan, Cyprus, Iran, Iraq, Jordan Kuwait, Lebanon, the Persian Gulf Sheikdoms, Saudi Arabia, and Turkey. October 19. Decree No. 613 of September 19 went into effect, prescribing that imports must enter the country through Syrian ports. Exemp- tions from this requirement included overland imports of commodities shipped direct from the country of origin and of commodities originating in a country other than the country of shipment, provided in the latter case that special permis- sion for the import was obtained. October 19. Decree No. 617 of September 20 went into effect, prescribing that, in principle, the main agricultural exports must be shipped by sea. October 19. Decree No. 666 added cigarettes to the commodities whose export proceeds could be repatriated through the free market (List 2 of Decree No. 625 ). 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC November 13. Decree No. 713 exempted, with effect from January 1, 1968, specified com- modities originating in Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, or the United Arab Republic from all existing import prohibitions and quota restrictions; exports of specified Syrian commodities to these countries were also freed from quantitative restriction. November 20. Decree No. 740 charged the customs authorities with verification, for all imports shipped after September 11, 1967, that the goods met all exchange control and insurance requirements and that their importation was neither prohibited nor suspended. November 26. Notice No. 374 made the impor- tation from payments agreement countries of 67 commodities subject to the prior approval of a special ad hoc committee; these goods continued to require an import license. 404 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Tanzanian Shilling or T Sh 7.14286 = US$1. There is a fixed relationship between the Tan- zanian shilling and the pound sterling at <£! = T Sh 17.1429. In transactions with authorized banks, the Bank of Tanzania stands ready to issue Tanzanian shillings in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for Tanzanian shillings; its buying and selling rates for sterling in such transactions differ from the rate of <£! = T Sh 17.1429 by yB2 and y16 per cent%, respec- tively. In transactions with the public the author- ized banks buy and sell sterling at rates differing from the rate of £1 = T Sh 17.1429 by %G and l/2 per cent, respectively. The Bank of Tanzania deals with authorized banks in Kenya and Uganda shillings against Tanzanian shillings at par; the authorized banks also deal with the public in these currencies at par. East African shillings, which are being withdrawn from circulation, may be exchanged at par by holders in Tanzania at all commercial banks. Banks in Tanzania base their rates for currencies other than sterling, Kenya shillings, and Uganda shillings on the current ma rket rates in London. Administration of Control The Treasury is in charge of exchange control but has delegated the administration of it to the Bank of Tanzania. Authority for approving normal import payments, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments to countries other than Kenya and Uganda is dele- gated to the authorized banks. Payments from Tanzania to Kenya and Uganda are free of restrictions. On the mainland, import and export control is administered by the Controller of Imports and Exports in the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- tries. The responsibility for issuing specific import and export licenses rests with the Con- troller, to whom applications should be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Import applications for some commodities, how- ever, must be submitted to the State Trading Corporation or require the endorsement of another state trading agency, i.e., the Cooperative Supply Association of Tanganyika (COS ATA), the International Trading and Credit Company of Tanganyika (INTRATA), or the National Agri- cultural Products Board (NAPB). Zanzibar administers an independent system of foreign trade controls; all imports and the principal exports are made by state trading agencies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trading Corpora- t ion ). Prescription of Currency Tanzania is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom; all settle- ments with Kenya and Uganda, however, must be effected in Kenya, Uganda, or Tanzanian shillings. Payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area other than Kenya and Uganda may be made in Tanzanian shillings to the credit of a Sterling Area Account in Tanzania or in any other Sterling Area currency; receipts from such countries must be obtained in Tanzanian shillings from a Sterling Area Account in Tanzania or in any other Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Tanzania to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Tanzanian shillings to the credit of an External Account in Tanzania, or in any other non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from countries outside the Ster- ling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Tanzanian shillings from an External Account in Tanzania, or in any other specified currency l that is not a Sterling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. xT he specified currencies are listed as fo l lows: Au s t r i an schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dol- lars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche m a rk, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than Kenya shillings, Tanzanian shillings, Uganda shillings and East Afr ican shillings. 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Kenya and Uganda. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments to such Sterling Area coun- tries by Tanzanian residents, with transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts, and with the pro- ceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Tanzania of pounds sterling or any other Sterling Area currency (except Kenya, Tanzanian, Uganda, or East African shillings) by residents of any other country in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda. They may be debited freely for pay- ments for exports to other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda and other pay- ments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda to Tan- zanian residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda for any purpose, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts in Tanzania, for pur- chases of any Sterling Area currency, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Tanzania. Provided that the permission of the appropriate exchange con- trol authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Uganda has been obtained, Sterling Area Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Tanzania or elsewhere in the Sterling Area, and for purchases in Tanzania of any non-Sterling Area currency or gold from an authorized dealer. Accounts in Tanzanian shillings held by resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Tanzania are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Tanzania, w i th transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) and gold by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers. Pro- vided that the permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Uganda has been obtained, External Accounts may also be credited with transfers from Sterling Area Accounts. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External 406 Accounts in Tanzania or in any other Sterling Area country, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Kenya and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Tanzania of specified bonds and shares issued in Tanzan ia ;2 the redemption pro- ceeds of certain government bonds so acquired are transferable beginning five years from the date of purchase. Subject to individual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to resi- dents not related to export transactions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Tanzania, and to Blocked Accounts in Kenya and Uganda, require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Some imports to the mainland from all sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain other imports are not being licensed. Some goods are imported by state trading agen- cies only. Imports from Kenya and Uganda (the Schedule I countries) are unrestricted but require a specific license. Specific import licenses are required for some 102 commodities or groups of commodities from Schedule II countries, i.e., Com- monwealth countries, GATT countries except Japan, and countries with which bilateral trade agreements are in fo rce ;3 other goods from these countries may be imported without licenses. All imports from Schedule III countries, i.e., Japan and all remaining countries, require a specific license. All imports to the mainland from Zanzi- bar require a specific license when the goods originate outside Zanzibar. All imports from South Africa, metropolitan Portugal, and Rho- desia are prohibited. Imports of Japanese goods are not licensed unless they are considered to assist the country's industrial development or are otherwise regarded as beneficial. All imports into Zanzibar are made by government agencies. 2 The securities must be payable in Tanzanian shillings and must not be redeemable earlier than five years f rom the date of acquisition. 3 The latter are Bulgaria, Bu rund i, Ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, India, North Korea, Poland, United Arab Republic, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Transfer taxes ranging from 7 to 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value are levied on a range of manu- factured goods when imported from and originat- ing in Kenya. For some of these commodities, the tax is applicable also when they are imported from and originate in Uganda. When the importer has obtained a license from the Controller of Imports and Exports, or if the transaction is covered by an open general license, exchange is provided automatically by an author- ized bank upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are controlled. Author- ized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits as well as all other current payments are normally approved administratively if the authorities are satisfied that such payments do not represent an illegal export of capital. There is a basic allowance for travel to countries outside the Scheduled Territories4 of T Sh 5,000 a person a year for persons aged 12 or older; half of this amount is available to chil- dren aged 3 to 12 years. Within this limit, trav- elers to destinations in Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda, and Zambia are restricted to T Sh 1,000 a year or T Sh 200 a day for up to ten days, whichever is the greater. Travelers proceeding direct to Kenya or Uganda may export any amount in Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda banknotes. Travelers to destinations out- side Kenya and Uganda may take out up to T Sh 250 in such notes and, subject to certain conditions, up to the equivalent of T Sh 5,000 in other banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out travelers checks or letters of credit up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Facilities exist whereby nationals of countries other than Kenya and Uganda who come to work under contract in Tanzania may during the first four years of their stay in Tanzania remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their monthly salary (bu t, unless expressly authorized, not more than T Sh 3,000 a mon th) to cover family maintenance, 4 Tanzania's exchange control regulations de f ine the Scheduled Territories as Kenya, Tanzan ia, and Uganda. TANZANIA savings, etc. Specified categories of expatriate employees may remit the total amount of their salaries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa, Portugal, all Portu- guese territories, and Rhodesia are prohibited. On the mainland, exports of products dealt with by state trading organizations and of certain other products are subject to controls and if there is a local shortage may be restricted. Other goods may be exported without license. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Export proceeds must be collected within six months from the date of exportation and those in specified currencies must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be sold to an authorized bank upon their collection. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes; the import of Kenya, Tanzanian, Uganda, or East African shil- ling notes must not exceed T Sh 250 in value for each traveler unless arriving direct from Kenya or Uganda, in which case any amount may be brought in. Capitol Capital transfers to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are restricted. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers to destinations other than Kenya and Uganda require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania per- manently who have been resident in Tanzania for four years immediately prior to the date of appli- cation may transfer their assets up to the equiva- lent of T Sh 100,000 if they take up residence in a country outside the Sterling Area, or up to the equivalent of T Sh 100,000 plus subsequent annual transfers of the equivalent of T Sh 40,000 if taking up residence in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Uganda. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in approved Tanzanian securi- 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA ties, and redemption proceeds become transfer- able upon maturity of the securities but not less than five years from the date of purchase. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tanzania; but to ensure eventual repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Exchange Control Ordinance, which in normal circumstances is given freely, or a certificate of approved enter- prise in terms of the Foreign Investment (Protec- tion) Act, 1963. Foreign and domestic invest- ment in specified types of production require approval under the East African Licensing Ordi- nance. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Tanzanian securities from residents, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, as may be the proceeds of disinvestment. Purchases of securities outside Kenya and Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. Commercial banks are not permitted to grant overdraft facilities to individuals and companies in order to enable them to make overseas transfers. All loans or overdrafts to nonresidents or to nonresident-controlled bodies in any of the Sched- uled Territories require exchange control approval. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and pro- fessional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in the form of coin or bullion, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in the form of coin or bullion require licenses issued by the Bank of Tanzania. Export licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The import of the following from all sources other than Kenya and Uganda, and from Kenya and Uganda when originating in other countries, is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued freely; those 408 for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) and for gold coins are issued to goldsmiths only and are subject to the Bank of Tanzania's approval. Changes during 1967 During the year, a considerable number of commodities were added to those subject to indi- vidual import license. February 6. With the exception of two state- owned banks, all commercial banks operating in Tanzania were nationalized. February 7. In order to check any possible capital flight after the nationalization measures of the previous day, the Government of Tanzania extended to Kenya and Uganda the exchange control regulations previously applied to all other countries. Kenya shillings and Uganda shillings were included in the list of specified currencies. These measures were revoked with effect from June 15, 1967. February 14. The National Assembly passed an Act to establish a National Bank of Commerce and an Act to establish a State Trading Corpora- tion. The latter was subsequently given a monop- oly over the import of specified commodities. February 27. The basic travel allowance for travel to Burundi, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda, or Zambia was reduced from T Sh 5,000 to the greater of T Sh 1,000 a person a year (T Sh 500 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) or T Sh 200 a day (T Sh 100 a day for children between 3 and 12) for travel of up to ten days. These regula- tions were revoked in respect of Kenya and Uganda on June 15, 1967, when exchange con- trol ceased to apply to these two countries. March 3. The National Bank of Commerce was permitted to act as an authorized dealer in gold. This bank and the People's Bank of Zanzi- bar were permitted to act as authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Both were permitted to act as authorized depositories, as was the National Cooperative and Development Bank. May 25. Normal banking arrangements cover- ing payments for imports from Kenya were re-established. May 29. For the purpose of the Foreign Investments (Protection) Act, 1963, the concept ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of "foreign national" was redefined to mean a person who is not a citizen of the United Republic of Tanzania; a company or other corporate body incorporated outside the United Republic; or a company incorporated within the United Republic, in respect of which the Minister is satisfied (1) that the ma jor i ty of the issued shares is beneficially owned by foreign nationals within the meaning of this definition, and (2) that there are special reasons why the company should be treated as a foreign national for the purposes of this act. A foreign national was defined previously as a person who is not a citizen of Tanganyika, including a corporate body not being a body incorporated in Tanganyika. June 6. Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda signed a treaty establishing an East Afr ican Community and Common Market (the Treaty for East A f r i- can Cooperation). June 14. Customs duties and excise taxes on many commodities were increased substantially. June 75. The East Afr ican Customs and Excise Management Act was extended to Zanzibar. As a result, the common customs tariff of Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda was applied also in Zanzibar. June 30. General Notice No. 1411 (Open General License) of June 15, 1967 went into effect. It canceled all previous amendments to the open general license for imports and set out the goods for which specific import licenses were required. Many commodities were added to the list of those requiring an individual license when imported from Kenya or Uganda. August 26. Zanzibar nationalized all import trade. September 14. All banknotes issued by the East Afr ican Currency Board ceased to be legal tender in Tanzania; un t il fu r ther notice they would con- tinue to be exchanged at par by all banks. October 27. The Tanzania Sisal Corporation was established to conduct the business of growers, processors, exporters, and manufac turers of sisal and sisal products and to carry on any business or activity conducive or incidental thereto. November 22. A loan agreement was signed w i th the Expo r t - Impo rt Bank of Japan. One fou r th TANZANIA of the loan would finance the purchase of Japanese machinery for a specified industrial unde r tak ing in Tanzania, and the rest would be used to finance imports of Japanese consumer goods. December 1. General Notice No. 2441 (Open General License) canceled Notice No. 1411 and subsequent amendments to the open general license for imports. A revised list was attached of commodities requiring an individual license when imported from countries other than Kenya or Uganda. December 1. Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda signed the declaration of inauguration of the East A f r ican Community, thus pu t t ing into effect the Treaty for East A f r ican Cooperation. The treaty provided tha t, with the exception of transfer taxes, there would be no internal ta r i f fs and no quan t i- tative import restrictions other than those on a limited special list of commodities. Countries which were in deficit in their total trade in speci- fied manu fac tu red goods with the other two coun- tries were entitled to impose t rans fer taxes upon such goods originating in the other two countries, but no transfer tax could be imposed for longer than eight years. The treaty also provided for the continuation of the common external customs ta r i f f. Subject to exchange control laws and regula- tions that must not be in conflict with the treaty, remittances among the three countries would take place at official par values and free of any exchange commission; bona fide current payments among the three countries were to remain unre- stricted, but controls on capital payments could be applied under specified conditions. December 3. All quantitative restrictions on imports f rom Kenya and Uganda of goods origi- nating in either country were abolished. All imports from these countries required individual import licenses, but these were granted freely. December 3. Transfer taxes ranging from 7 to 20 per cent were imposed on a range of manu- fac tured goods when imported from and originat- ing in Kenya. For some of these commodities, the tax was applicable also when they were imported from and originated in Uganda. December 11. Forward exchange facilities were made available to importers and exporters. 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0427245 gram of fine gold per Thai Baht or B 20.80 = US$1. There is an Exchange Equalization Fund which limits its operations to spot transactions in U.S. dollars with commercial banks. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All outgoing payments are subject to approval (given auto- matically for bona fide commercial transac t ions). As at December 29, 1967, the buy ing and selling rates of the Exchange Equalization Fund for spot exchange transactions with banks in U.S. dollars were B 20.67 buying, and B 20.72 selling, per US$1; the authorized banks' rates were B 20.65 buying, and B 20.80 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most trans- actions to authorized agents (i.e., authorized banks and authorized companies) and to author- ized persons. Imports of gold require a license issued by the M in is try of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the currency to be used for settlements with for- eign countries; paymen ts are made largely in sterling and related currencies or in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Transferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In principle, transfers of baht to and f rom nonresi- dent accounts require approval; approval is not required, however, when the account is held for foreign diplomatic entities, international organiza- tions stationed in Thailand, or Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may be credited with the proceeds f rom sales of for- eign currency and with funds eligible for remit- tance abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transferab le Accounts are convertible into for- eign currency at any time and may be debited to 410 pay for exports. Transfers of baht f rom Blocked Accounts for the purchase of foreign currency, except for certain current payments, are subject to approval by the Bank of Thailand. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely; but import licenses are required for some eight listed commodities, and the import of certain other listed items is prohibited. All imports of goods originating in Mainland China are prohibited. Imports of Rhodesian origin require a license f rom the Ministry of Economic Affa irs. Imports of tea leaf, tea dust, and coffee are subject to a require- ment that the importer purchase a proportionate quan t i ty of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Payments for imports may be approved by authorized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Thailand, which is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance payments in excess of US$1,400 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit with an expiry date exceeding nine months. Importers must obtain, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" f rom an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 5,000 in value can be cleared through customs; military equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense and certain other m inor categories of imports are exempt from this requ iremen t. Payments for invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles require authorization, which is usually given by an authorized b ank; exchange is provided free ly. Cargo insurance pre- m iums due to foreign insurers may be remitted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income af ter taxes. The transfer of profits and d iv idends is permitted freely by the Bank of Thai- land. Apart f rom foreign travel, fam i ly mainte- nance abroad, and educational expenses abroad, authorized agents are permitted to approve appli- cations for exchange without supporting docu- ments, provided that each payment does not ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exceed the equivalent of US$140. For foreign travel, fam i ly remittances, and study abroad, the amoun ts of exchange that an authorized agent may sell are subject to certain max imum limits. For persons traveling abroad, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equivalent of US$630, or US$40 a day or the equivalent for not more than 90 days, whichever is the greater; for business travel, additional for- eign exchange may be obtained in certain cases for en ter ta inment expenses. Amoun ts above these limits are approved by the Bank of Thailand upon verification. No person may take out local cur- rency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a fam i ly traveling on one passport) without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of tin ore, paddy, and rice bran are prohibited and all exports to Rhodesia require an individual license. Certain categories of exports are subject to licensing, irrespective of destina- tion.1 Rice exports are subject to individual quotas w i th in an over-all mon th ly export target; rice exports to regular markets (Hong Kong, Malaysia, and Singapore) are licensed by the Department of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Economic Affa irs, but for rice exports to other destinations, licenses can only be issued by the Minister of Economic Affa irs. All other commodities may be exported freely, except to Rhodesia. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" f rom an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs, as follows: for shipments of rice, rice flour, tin, or rubber exceeding B 1,000 in value through any customs station; for shipments of charcoal or wood exceed- ing B 10,000 in value through certain provincial customs stations; and, with minor exceptions, for other goods exceeding B 5,000 in value through any customs station. This certificate assures repa- triation of the export proceeds. Export proceeds must be collected and must be sold to authorized agents within 7 days of receipt; their surrender must take place w i th in 15 days f rom the date of 1 Gold, p l a t i n um, precious stones, cer ta in fer t i l izers, l ive ca t t le and o ther specified an ima ls, so rghum, maize, rice and rice produc ts, raw sugar, certain other minerals, rubbe r, brass and copper in cer ta in forms, rad ioac t ive ma te r ia l s, salt expor ted by sea, and Deva and Buddha images and th e ir pa r ts. THAILAND export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight bill is d rawn for collection, or 15 days a f ter the due date of a usance bill, but not later than 3 months a f ter the date of export. Tour- ists require a "certificate of exportation" to take out articles other than personal effects w i th a total value in excess of B 10,000. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f rom invisibles must be sold to an authorized agent. No person may bring into Thai- land local currency exceeding B 500 without a permit, and a fam i ly traveling on the same pass- port may not bring in more than B 1,000 w i thout a permit. Travelers entering through the port of Bangkok may br ing in foreign notes and coins not exceeding the equivalent of US$1,120, and those entering through other ports, the equivalent of US$560; the equivalent of US$1,120 is appli- cable to a fam i ly trave l ing on the same passport, irrespective of the port of en t ry. Capital All outward transfers of capital, including pre- miums on life insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Foreign exchange from inward capital movements must be sold to an authorized agent. Foreign investments in Thailand can be accorded preferential treatment under the Industrial Investment Act of Febru- ary 10, 1962; this trea tment includes a guaran tee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capital repatriation. The repatriation of other capital is considered on the merits of each case. When the amount to be repatriated is large, the applicant may be required to effect the transfer in installments in order to prevent a disturbance of the exchange market. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry are subject to the following arrangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Commercial imports of gold in any form are restricted and require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. For gold bullion, the Ministry fixes an authorized quan t i ty of imports each year; the quota for 1967/68 is 240,000 troy 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND ounces. A bidding system operates under which the importer offering the highest premium by tender is awarded a license as sole importer of the authorized quantity. In addition to this prem ium, which accrues to the Government, the importer is required to pay to the Ministry of Finance a fee at the rate of US$1.75 per troy ounce of gold. The fee is payable in baht at the par value. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited, while those of gold ornaments exceeding B 5,000 in value require a certificate of exportation in addition to the export entry, for presentation to the customs, but bear no premium or taxes. The conveyance of gold in transit is not restricted and is free of customs charges. Changes during 1967 January 10. Shipments of rice totaling 20,000 tons to Hong Kong, Singapore, and Malaysia were approved. January 16. The ban on rice exports was l i f ted; that on exports of paddy and rice bran was maintained. January 16. The Government fixed the target for exports of rice in 1967 at 1.5 million metric tons (excluding glutinous rice and rice exported from provincial po r ts ); shipments in the first half of the year were not to exceed 60 per cent of this amount. January 16. The export premiums for rice were put on an ad valorem basis. January 18. The Bank of Thailand no longer required that large amoun ts of profits be remitted in installments. January 19. The amount of advance payments for imports that authorized banks are permitted to approve was raised from US$280 to US$1,400. January 26. The amount of foreign currency notes and foreign coins that authorized agents could sell to customers without license was increased from US$56 to US$140 a person. March 1. Exporters of rice were required to sell to the Rice Reserve Committee, at a price fixed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, 10 per cent of the quantity that they were allowed to export. March 13. Exports of rice to markets other than Hong Kong, Singapore, and Malaysia were made subject to authorization by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. May 31. Import control on plywood and fiber- board was removed. August 1. Thailand signed the Declaration of Bangkok creating the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEA). August 17. The gold import quota for the year 1967/68 was fixed at 240,000 troy ounces. Since 1962, the annual quota had been 200,000 troy ounces. September 6. The export target for rice was lowered from 1.5 to 1.3 million metric tons (excluding glutinous rice and rice exported from provincial ports). December 4. The Exchange Equalization Fund increased its selling rate for U.S. dollars from B. 20.67 to B. 20.72 per U.S. dollar and its buy- ing rate from B 20.62 to B 20.67 per U.S. dollar. 412 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO Exchange System No par value for the currency of Togo has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, giv- ing the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de POuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting from the relation CFAF 1 = F 0.02, plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange m a rk et rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Forward exchange transactions, which are permitted in any'currency and for any period, take place at freely negotiated rates. Domestic transactions in banknotes and coins that are legal tender in Guinea or Mali are p r o h i b i t e d ;2 otherwise there are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings, whether spot or for- ward, by residents or nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. With the exception that certain settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited for noneconomic reasons, there are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements, although certain controls are applied to borrowing abroad, to issues and sales of foreign securities in Togo, and to inward and outward direct investment (see section on Capital, below). In practice, settle- ments with countries outside the French Franc Area are usually made through correspondent banks in France, either in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs; settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are usually made in curren- cies of that Area, in practice ma in ly in French francs. The following is applicable to payments and transactions between Togo and all foreign coun- 1The CFA f r anc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de TA f r i q ue de TOuest (BCEAO) and is the common cu r rency in Dahomey, Ivo ry Coast, M a u r i t a n i a, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 These prohibitions are to be revoked in respect of Malian currency shortly a f ter the establishment by M a li of an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. tries 3 except Rhodesia. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, which may be held in Togo or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in CFA francs or in any foreign currency may be held in Togo by any nonresident. Balances on nonresident accounts may be transferred freely to any type of resident or nonresident account and used for any payment in Togo or abroad, includ- ing the purchase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment including any amount of interest. There are no restrictions on physical imports or exports of foreign or domestic securi- ties. Imports and exports of gold are controlled and restricted; these require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Togo's control measures affecting inward and outward direct investment and borrowing abroad do not apply to relations with ( 1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Vo l ta ); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), Gabon, and the Malagasy Republic), provided that they accord Togo reciprocity in respect of freedom of pay- ments and transfers .4 Administration of Control The M in is try of Finance supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Togo, and inward and outward direct investment. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the postal administration, any informa- tion necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All banks in Togo are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign 3 Foreign countries are defined as all countries o ther than Togo. tEa r ly in 1968, Mali also established an Operations Account with the French Treasury and liberalized its exchange control. 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO Trade Office in the Ministry of Commerce, Indus- try, Tourism, and Planning, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance. Imports and import Payments Most imports of Rhodesian origin and all imports of Portuguese or South Afr ican origin are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Imports from all other countries require individual licenses. In principle, the licenses are to be granted in accordance with an import program which is to be established each year and which may include recommendations by a joint French-Togolese Committee, as specified in the Economic Cooperation Agreement with France; as yet, however, an import program has not been established and almost all requests for import licenses from all sources are granted. There are no formal import free lists. The issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin is conditional on the purchase of a quantity of the local product equal to half the quantity to be imported. Payments for permitted imports f rom any coun- try may be made freely, at any time, and without any formality. Commodity fu tu res may be dealt in freely, in Togo or abroad. Payments for invisibles With the exception of payments for certain pur- poses to or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia, which are prohibited, all payments for invisibles may be made freely w i thout individual license. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in domestic and foreign banknotes. However, persons norma l ly resident in Togo, when traveling to a coun t ry that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union, must declare to the customs authorities at the point of exit the amount of BCEAO banknotes that they are carry- ing if this amount exceeds CFAF 250,000. Travel- ers also may freely take out up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses. Cer- tain exports to Rhodesia and all exports to Portu- gal and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports are 414 free of exchange controls. The repatriation and surrender of export proceeds is not required. Exporters may grant credit for any period and are free to sell forward their anticipated export pro- ceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses, but certain services must not be performed for or on behalf of residents of Rho- desia. Except in relations with Guinea and Mali, there are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents and the pro- ceeds f rom invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes and coins other than Guinean and Malian banknotes and coins, whose import is prohibited. Travelers may also bring in up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Capital Certain transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. The situation in respect of other countries is as follows. Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license, through banks or any other channel. Foreign and domestic securities of all types may be imported or exported freely, whether through the intermediary of a bank or not, and transactions between residents and non- residents in domestic and foreign real estate (except when form ing part of a direct investment) are unrestricted. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation and may (except when fo rm ing part of a direct investment) be freely disposed of. Certain controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward direct invest- ment, and over the issuing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Togo, but these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Togo, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Mone- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account, provided that these coun- tries apply the same freedom in their relations with Togo. Foreign direct investments in Togo,5 and Togo- lese direct investments abroad,6 must be declared to the Minister of Finance when they are being made, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistrib- uted profits. The Minister has a period of two months from the receipt of the declaration, dur- ing which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The total or par- tial liquidation of either type of direct investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Togolese invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Togo requires prior authori- zation by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Togolese Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing or offer ing for sale in Togo has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Togo, or by branches or subsidiaries in Togo of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct 5 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Togo that are d i rec t ly or ind i rec t ly under fore ign control and those made by branches or subs id iar ies in Togo of fore ign companies. 0 Inc lud ing those made through the in termed iary of fore ign compan ies that are d i rec t ly or ind i rec t ly con- tro l led by persons in Togo and those made by b ranches or sub s id ia r ies abroad of companies in Togo. TOGO investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; ( 2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the per- sons or firms mentioned above, or with the financ- ing of commercial transactions either between Togo and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take par t; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one bor- rower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be notified to the Minister of Finance within 20 days, unless the total out- standing amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad is not subject to authorization or declaration. Banks in Togo may freely grant overdraf ts on nonresident accounts for any period. Under the provisions of the general tax legisla- tion, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to speci- fied new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. Also, certain enterprises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted by the Government, for a specified number of years, special privileges relating to the main- tenance of existing taxes and the exemption from import duties on a large number of items. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. An Investment Law (No. 65-10 of July 21, 1965) applicable to both foreign and domestic capital lists the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special found ing agreement (convention d'etab- lissement) by which they receive certain tax bene- fits. Firms that under take to invest at least CFAF 20 million may receive a guarantee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. They are also free to acquire and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. Imports 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO, (2) imports and exports of manu- factured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles), (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold arti- cles (other than coins and bars) whose combined weight does not exceed 500 grams, and (4) imports and exports of up to ten gold coins, irre- spective of denomination or face value. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1967 January 1. A customs stamp duty of 2 per cent of the amount of the duties and taxes collected by the customs was levied on imports. January 1. An equalization tax (taxe de pere- quation) was introduced on imports of sugar. January 1. The tax on imports levied for the benefit of the Chamber of Commerce was reduced to CFAF 5 per 100 kilograms; previously, the rate was CFAF 20 or CFAF 40 per 100 kilo- grams, depending on the commodity. The tax was abolished on January 1, 1968. February 14. In implementation of the UN Security Council's Resolution 232 of Decem- ber 16, 1966, Decree No. 67-36 prohibited (1) the import from Rhodesia of Rhodesia's prin- cipal export products; (2) any acts fu r the r ing the export of such products by Rhodesia, including any transfer of funds to Rhodesia for purposes of such activities or transactions; and (3) all exports of arms, munitions, and military equipment to Rhodesia. May 4. Togo signed the Protocol of Associa- tion for the establishment of a West African Eco- nomic Community. July 1. Ordinance No. 27 of June 28, 1967 established the principle that financial relations with foreign countries were free. With minor exceptions, all existing legislation contrary to this principle was revoked. Previously, current and capital payments to all French Franc Area coun- tries already were unrestricted; they were also free of control, as were inward transfers originating in 416 French Franc Area countries. The law also pro- vided for the statistical registration of all inward and outward payments. Normally, the repatriation and surrender of claims, earnings, and proceeds accruing abroad would no longer be required. Import and export regulations were not affected, although certain exchange control formalities were abolished; these included the requirements that import licenses and import certificates be domiciled with an authorized bank, and that exporters sign a for- eign exchange commitment in respect of all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. July 1. Decree No. 67-135 of June 28, 1967 established the principal rules for the application of Ordinance No. 27. The decree defined the con- cept of "foreign countries" and indicated the types of capital transactions with foreign countries that would be subject either to declaration or prior approval. It also provided that the import and export of gold, with certain exceptions, required prior approval by the Minister of Finance and that the import and export of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO were free, with the proviso that residents traveling to countries outside the West African Monetary Union must declare to the customs any amount in BCEAO notes carried if that amount exceeded CFAF 250,000. The import and the negotiation in Togo were prohibited of banknotes and coins that were legal tender in Guinea or Mali. The Minister of Finance would issue instructions for the operation of any pay- ments agreement concluded or to be concluded with foreign countries. July L Decree No. 67-136 of June 28, 1967 created a Balance of Payments Committee charged with periodically compiling a national balance of payments. The BCEAO was authorized to collect, from any public or private, physical or juridical person, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the postal administration, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. July 1. Decree No. 67-137 of June 29, 1967 confirmed the prohibition of the import and domestic negotiation of the banknotes and coins of Guinea and Mali. July 1. The Exchange Office was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO July 1. The EFAC (Exportations-Frais Acces- soires) arrangements were abolished, under which exporters could retain part of their export pro- ceeds that were received in non-French Franc Area currencies. July 13. The customs stamp du ty was increased from 2 per cent to 3 per cent by Ordinance No. 29 of July 12, 1967. July 13. Ordinance No. 31 of July 13, 1967 abolished the exchange tax of 0.5 per cent previ- ously levied on most payments to countries out- side the French Franc Area. August 29. Decree No. 67-170 prohibited all direct or indirect trade with Portugal and South Africa. The issuance of licenses for imports from the latter had been suspended since May 15, 1964. September 7. Circular No. 1097 of the Ministry of Commerce informed traders that import and export licenses no longer had to be domiciled with a bank. October 24. Ordinance No. 39 established the conditions for the opening of diamond purchasing offices in Togo and until fu r ther notice fixed the export du ty on diamonds at 1 per cent of the real value of each export shipment. 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Trinidad and Tobago Dollar or TT$2.00 = US$1. The Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago main- tains a fixed official relationship with sterling of TT$4.80 = <£!. Sterling exchange transactions through the Bank are for amounts of $25,000 and above, and these are subject to exchange com- missions up to a max imum of 1 per cent on inward and outward transfers; at present the rates are % of 1 per cent on outward transfers and %6 of 1 per cent on inward transfers. Other sterling exchange transactions through commercial banks are at present subject to vary ing exchange charges according to the amount and mode of transfer. All other exchange transactions are made through the authorized banks; their exchange charges are based on daily quotations in the London ma rke t. Notes issued by the Eastern Caribbean Currency Authority and the central banks of Jamaica and Guyana are not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago, but as a result of an arrangement with the monetary authorities in those areas, the notes are repatriated in return for reciprocity of treat- ment with respect to notes of the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago. The East Caribbean dollar, which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority, has a fixed relationship to sterling of EC$4.80 = ^ l ^ T h is corresponds to a relationship to the U.S. dollar of EC$2.00 = US$1. All exchange transactions in Trinidad and Tobago are made through authorized banks. The banks maintain fixed exchange rates of T T $ 4 . 8 0 = < £1 and EC$4.80 = <£ 1 and charge commissions of 3/i of 1 per cent and 7/l f; of 1 per cent, respectively, for sales and purchases of sight d ra f ts, and of % of 1 per cent and « %G of 1 per cent, respec- 1 The East Car ibbean do l lar was issued on October 6, 1965 by the East Car ibbean Currency A u t h o r i t y, pu r- su ant to the East Caribbean Cu r rency Agreement of 1965, to replace the West Ind ian dollar at par. (The West Ind ian do l la r, wh ich was issued by the B r i t ish Ca r ibbean Cu r rency Board in Barbados, Guy an a, Lee- wa rd Is lands, W i n dw a rd Is lands, and T r in idad and Tobago, had a fixed r e l a t i o n s h ip to s te r l ing of WI$4 .80 = £1 .) The East Ca r ibbean dollar is the mone ta ry u n it of A n t i g u a, Dom in ica, Mon tserra t, S t. Ch r is tophe r- N ev i s -Angu i l l a, St. Luc ia, and St. V incen t; there are no r e s t r i c t ions on the movemen ts of local cu r rency notes be tween these a reas and T r in id ad and Tobago. 4 18 tively, for sales and purchases of telegraphic transfers. The result is a selling rate of TT$4.812 or EC$4.812 per <£!, and a buying rate of TT$4.779 or EC$4.779 per <£ !, for sight drafts. Exchange rates for other convertible currencies are determined daily, on the basis of their quota- tions in terms of sterling on the London market, plus or m inus the above commissions. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control for payments for invisibles is carried out by the Cen- tral Bank acting as agent for the Government; for paymen ts for imports, by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce through its Trade and Commerce Division; and for proceeds from exports, by the Customs and Excise Department. For payments relating to certain specified invisi- bles, authority is delegated to authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. The exchange control system provides for com- pulsory surrender of foreign exchange 2 and for control over both current and capital transactions. No control is at present exercised over transfers of sterling by residents of Trinidad and Tobago to other parts of the Sterling Area, but all payments and transfers to countries outside the Sterling Area, to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or to an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars require the approval of the exchange con- trol authorities; paymen ts to Rhodesia are restricted. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents, are also subject to control. Prescription of Currency Trinidad and Tobago is a member of the Ster- ling Area and maintains prescription of currency - If the business of a trader, firm, or company invo lves cons tant receipts and paymen ts in non-Sterling Area currenc ies, permission is granted for the re ten t ion of a por t ion of receipts in a Re ta ined Accoun t, subject to the requ i rement that periodic s ta temen ts of credits and deb i ts to the Account must be subm i t ted to the a u t h o r- ities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution requirements similar to those of the United King- dom, except in respect of South Afr ica, which has been excluded from Trinidad and Tobago's definition of the Sterling Area. Settlements with residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, sterling, or other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by crediting an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Payments from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be received in sterling from an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by debiting an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, or in any specified currency.3 Special regulations apply to Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by com- mercial banks for nonresidents of the Sterling Area. These accounts may be credited with pay- ments by residents of the Sterling Area, approved by the exchange control authorities; with transfers from other External Accounts; and with proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign currency to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for pay- ments to residents of the Sterling Area; for trans- fers to other External Accounts; and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling and may be transferred between residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Blocked Accounts may be credited with funds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of capital assets in Trinidad and Tobago, or proceeds from the sale of sterling securities). The use of balances in Blocked Accounts is subject to author- ization. Blocked funds may be reinvested in Ster- 3 These currenc ies are Au s t r i an sch i l l ings, Be lg ian f ranc s, Burmese ky a t s, Canad ian do l lars, Dan i sh k ron e r, deu tsche m a r k, French f rancs, I t a l i an l ire, Japanese yen, N e t h e r l a n ds gu i lders, Norweg ian k rone r, Por tuguese escudos, Rhodesian pounds, South A f r ican rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO ling Area securities which are not redeemable either optionally or contractually within five years f rom the date of acquisition. The income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, are available for credit to an External Account. Permission may be given for funds on Blocked Accounts of persons who have emigrated from Trinidad and Tobago to be remitted to the United Kingdom for the purchase of investment currency. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited.4 Most imports from other countries are free of quantitative restriction. For import control pur- poses, countries are divided into two groups: ( 1) Soviet countries and Mainland China 5 and (2) all other countries, including the United Kingdom. The import regulations include prohibition, state trading, individual licensing, and open gen- eral license. ( 1) The following imports are prohibited or are subject to stringent control: matches manu- factured locally under a monopoly granted by the Government to a private company, coffee and cocoa beans, and beer in containers other than ten-ounce glass bottles and cans. Firearms, nar- cotics, and certain other goods are either pro- hibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. (2) Imported rice in bu lk is the only com- modity subject to state trading. This rice is nor- mally imported from Guyana and Surinam under government contracts, at agreed prices.6 ( 3) All commodities other than those specified under (1) and ( 2 ), above, are imported under either an individual license or an open general license arrangement. As indicated below, the scope of the arrangement depends on the countries from which the commodities are imported. 4 W i th e f fect f rom J a n u a ry 30, 1968, all impor ts f rom South A f r i ca were p roh ib i ted. 5 These are listed as A l b a n i a, Bu lgar ia, Ma in land Ch ina, Czechos lovak ia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hunga ry, No r th Korea, Poland, R um a n i a, and U.S.S.R. 0 Packaged rice may be imported th rough no rmal commercial channe ls, but such imports are not usua l ly allowed f rom coun t r ies o ther than G u y a na un less the contracted supp l ies are not fo r thcom ing. 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO ( a) Imports from Soviet countries, Yugoslavia, and Mainland China. All imports from these countries require a specific license. In practice, licenses are granted freely for imports from Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Yugoslavia of com- modities not on the "negative" list mentioned under (b) below. For the other countries in this group, licenses are granted only for essential goods. (b) Imports from all other countries except Rhodesia. For imports from these countries a "negative" list is published, which lists all goods subject to individual licensing. All other goods may be imported under open general license. The "negative" list comprises about 350 tariff items. Licenses for these items are issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, provided that domestic industry is unable to supply the commodity in question. Whenever restrictions are applied on imports from countries other than Soviet countries or Mainland China, no discrimination is practiced because of the country of origin or the currency involved. Payments for all imports from countries outside the Sterling Area require an exchange license. If prescription of currency regulations are complied with, exchange licenses are granted without restric- tion or undue delay whenever the authorities are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is involved. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for current invisibles originating in the Sterling Area are permitted freely. Those originating outside the Sterling Area require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appro- priate documentary evidence. As a matter of policy, no restrictions are imposed on payments for current international transactions, except where payments to Rhodesia are concerned. Under authority delegated by the Government, the authorized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange within prescribed limits for certain invisibles. When additional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required and this is granted provided that unauthorized capital transfers are not involved. 420 The basic allowance for tourist travel is TT$ 1,200 a person a year. Residents and nonresidents may take out Trini- dad and Tobago notes and/or sterling notes up to the equivalent of £10 (TT$48.00). Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export part or all of their basic travel allowance (TT$ 1,200) in foreign currency notes. Nonresidents visiting Trinidad and Tobago may, on departure, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited.7 Exports of certain listed goods require an individual license. The list includes some foodstuffs, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products pro- duced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products (about 40 tariff items) not produced there. Exports of all other commodities are permitted by an open general license. General licenses have been issued to permit petroleum companies to export without specific licenses. Export proceeds received in currencies other than East Caribbean dollars must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum compa- nies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate foreign exchange to the extent of their local cur- rency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in currencies other than Trinidad and Tobago dollars or sterling must be surrendered. Insurance, ship- ping, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago are usually authorized to maintain operating accounts for receipts and expenditures in non-Sterling Area currency which are inherent parts of their businesses. These companies give periodic accounts of their exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trini- dad and Tobago currency notes and/or sterling notes up to the equivalent of £10 (TT$48.00). 7 W i th e f fect f rom J a n u a ry 30, 1968, all exports to South A f r ica were proh ib i ted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by residents and nonresidents. Capital Capital transfers f rom Trinidad and Tobago to other countries in the Sterling Area are permitted freely, but those to countries outside the Sterling Area are closely regulated. However, repayment of commercial credit, gifts, emigration allowances (in limited amoun t s ), and legacies are permitted free ly. For transactions in securities, no authorized depositories have been appointed in Trinidad and Tobago, but dealings in securities largely conform in other respects to the practice in the United Kingdom. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities except those entered in a Register in the Sterling Area that is not a Subsidiary Register. Contractual amortization on sterling securities is permitted, and also on mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other investments owned by nonresidents of the Sterling Area may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ); how- ever, nonresident capital invested in Trinidad and Tobago a f ter Janua ry 1950 may be repatriated together w i th capital gains, provided that the investment has been approved by the Governmen t. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to nonresidents, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, provided that the f u ll proceeds of sale are received in non-Sterling Area currency or sterling from an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area. When securi- ties are sold or redeemed in a market outside the Sterling Area, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the offi- cial market rate of exchange, or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested outside the Sterling Area in similar securities. Purchases of non-Sterling Area securi- ties by residents must be financed w i th inve s tment cu r rency; such purchases are seldom au thor ized. TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irredeemable or not redeemable w i th in five years from the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discriminate between nationals and foreigners in the forma t ion and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landholding) Ordinance in order to hold interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Prospective foreign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The proposed project must satisfy the authorities that it will be either a net earner or a net saver of the foreign currency (not necessarily the original foreign currency of inve s tmen t ), or, alternatively, that if any loss is involved it can be justified in terms of other benefits to the country. Since 1950, the Government has enacted basic incentive legislation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in secondary industry. This law provides for the granting of certain concessions to industries declared to be pioneer industries, i.e., industries which have not previously existed in Trinidad and Tobago or which are not being con- ducted on a commercial scale. Every pioneer manu fac tu rer is entitled to temporary relief from import duties and taxes and to other privileges. The proceeds realized f rom part or all of a direct capital inves tment made af ter January 1, 1950 by a nonresident of the Sterling Area in an approved project may, if desired, be repatriated at any time. The investment may have been, or may be, made in one or more of the following ways: in non-Sterling Area currency or sterling appropriate to the investor's country of residence; in sterling eligible for remittance to the nonresident investor; or in goods and services supplied f rom the country of the investor. This right to repatriate funds is, however, subject to the following conditions. (a) The right will not normally apply to the purchase of shares on a stock exchange unless this purchase formed an integral part of an approved capital investment project. 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO ( b) When an investment did not require per- mission under the exchange control regulations, e.g., when it was made through a local branch, the right will be allowed only if the investor obtained exchange control approval of his project at the time the investment was made. Gold Gold is defined by the Defence (Finance) Regulations, 1942 as gold coin and bullion. The regulations provide that, except with spe- cific exemptions and permissions granted by the Minister of Finance: ( 1) one party to every trans- action in gold between residents must be an authorized bank; (2) gold held by residents must be surrendered to an authorized bank; and ( 3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents would be permitted in appropriate cases to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. Control on the import and export of gold is administered by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce by regulations scheduled under the Trade Ordinance, 1958. Imports of gold jewelry are on Open General License, but imports of gold other than jewelry are subject to specific import licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses for gold other than jewelry would not normally be granted except to the monetary authorities. Changes during 1967 During the year the import of a number of additional commodities became subject to indi- vidual import license; only the principal items affected are shown below. April 6. Air conditioners, car radios, radio phonographs, and knitted sweaters required a specific import license. April 27. Inner tubes and tires required a specific import license. May 5. It was announced that import licenses for specified garments would not normally be granted, and that licenses for many other types of garments would only be issued when their prices exceeded specified minima. July 1. Coins issued by the British Caribbean Currency Board ceased to be legal tender. September 8. The South African rand was designated as a foreign currency. September 11. South Africa was excluded from Trinidad and Tobago's definition of the Sterling Area. October 12. Perfume, cosmetics, liquid milk, and prefabricated buildings and parts required a specific import license. November 2. The Minister of Finance ap- pointed the Central Bank as agent for the Gov- ernment for the purpose of the administration of the exchange control regulations. November 18. The definition of foreign cur- rency was broadened to include all currencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar; under the previous definition, only non-Sterling Area cur- rencies were foreign currencies. The effect of this measure was to make the existing exchange control regulations applicable also to the Sterling Area. November 23. The par value of the Trinidad and Tobago dollar was changed from TT$ 1.71429 ~ US$1 toTT$2.00 = US$1. November 24. Motorcars and station wagons required a specific import license. December 18. Sterling Area currencies other than the South African rand ceased to be defined as foreign currencies. 422 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.69271 grams of fine gold per Tunisian Dinar or D 1 = US$1.90476. The rate of the dinar in relation to the French f ranc is fixed at D 0.106338 per F 1. Buying and selling rates for other convertible currencies are fixed daily by the Central Bank on the basis of the rates quoted on the Paris exchange market, by taking the aver- age of the different rates quoted in Paris and con- verting it into dinars at the French franc/dinar exchange rate. The rate for the U.S. dollar for settlements under bilateral payments agreements is D 0 .525= US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Cen- tral Bank of Tunisia, including the authorization of payments for imports and invisibles; some au thor i ty is delegated to the authorized banks. Trade control is administered by the Trade Divi- sion of the Ministry of Planning and National Economy, which establishes import quotas and issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Tunisia is in the French Franc Area. For pay- ment purposes, countries are classified as follows: ( 1) the French Franc Area countries; (2) the bilateral group, comprising countries with which Tunisia has concluded bilateral payments agree- ments (Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia); and ( 3) the area of convertibility, comprising all other countries. Settlements with countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area; with countries in the bilateral group, in clearing dollars with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia, in Tunisian dinars with the U.S.S.R., and in Swiss agreement francs with Mainland China; and with countries in the area of converti- bility, generally in convertible currencies 1 or in 1 These cu r renc ies are Au s t r ian sch i l l ings, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Dan ish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, D j ibou ti f rancs, I t a l i an l ire, Mexican pesos, Ne the r lands gu i lders, No rweg ian k rone r, Portuguese escudos, pounds s te r l ing, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. do l la r s. Tunisian dinars through the accounts of residents of those countries. Payments for imports must normally be made, in accordance with the fore- going, on the basis of the country of origin; how- ever, all imports shipped f rom other countries of the French Franc Area, irrespective of their origin, must be paid for in French francs. Certain com- mercial transactions with India must be settled in Indian rupees. Payments to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: French Franc Area External Accounts (Comptes Exterieurs-Zone Franc or EZF Accounts) may be held by residents of other parts of the French Franc Area. These accounts are denominated either in dinars or in French francs. Those held in dinars may be credited freely with proceeds from sales of French francs or converti- ble currencies (see footnote 1 ); with transfers f rom other French Franc Area External Accounts; and with transfers from Foreign Accounts in Con- vertible Dinars. They may be debited freely for all settlements or transfers effected within the French Franc Area. Accounts held in French francs may be credited freely with French francs transferred by a nonresident to the account holder; with proceeds in French francs from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies; and with the proceeds of checks and travelers checks pay- able either in French francs or in convertible cur- rencies and cashed by the account holder. They may be debited freely for all settlements or trans- fers effected within the French Franc Area. French Franc Area Internal Accounts (Comp- tes Interieurs-Zone Franc or IZF Accounts) may be held by physical persons who are residents of other parts of the French Franc Area but who are staying temporarily in Tunisia. These accounts are denominated in dinars. They may be credited freely with proceeds from sales of French francs or convertible currencies; with transfers from other French Franc Area Internal Accounts held by the same person; with earnings, cash distributions under wills, amortization of securities, and pro- ceeds from sales of Tunisian securities, provided that in all cases such funds accrue in Tunisia; and 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA with repayments of loans granted from the same account. They may be debited free ly for transfers to another French Franc Area Internal Account held by the same person; for living expenses in Tunisia of the holder and his fam i ly; for upkeep and supervision of his assets in Tunisia; for pur- chases in Tunisia, subject to certain conditions, of Tunisian securities; for purchases, subject to cer- tain conditions, of Tunisian short-term bonds and paper; and for loans in dinars to residents. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be held by residents of the area of convertibility. They may be credited freely with payments for authorized imports f rom these countries and with proceeds f rom sales to the Central Bank of con- vertible currencies. They may be debited freely for payments of any kind to residents of Tunisia and for the purchase of foreign exchange from the Central Bank. Transfers between these accounts and from these accounts to French Franc Area External Accounts and to Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars may be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars may be held by residents of countries of the bilateral group. They may be credited freely with payments for authorized imports from these countries, with proceeds f rom sales to the Central Bank of con- vertible currencies, and with transfers from For- eign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. They may be debited free ly for payments to residents of Tunisia. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars related to the same country may also be made free ly. Foreign Accounts in Foreign Currencies are used ma in ly by foreign embassies and by certain nonresident business enterprises in anticipation of investment in Tunisia; funds in these accounts may at any time be transferred to the country of origin. Capital Accounts may be held by residents of any country (including countries of the French Franc A r e a ). The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian nationality must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may also hold Capital Accounts. Capital Accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of liqui- dation of foreign investments and other assets, and with debt repayments and amortization of contractual obligations not covered by a re t rans fer guarantee. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for the crediting of the sales proceeds 424 of agricultural property belonging to nonresidents of French nationality. These accounts may be debited for the purchase of Tunisian securities, participations in companies, real estate, and busi- ness concerns; the settlement of expenses arising in connection with the administration of nontrans- ferable foreign assets, as well as personal expenses of the initial account holder; taxes payable by the account holder; and the granting of credits to resi- dents. Accounts held by residents of countries outside the French Franc Area may not be debited for personal expenses without authorization, while those held by residents of the French Franc Area may be debited freely for the personal expenses of the account holder and of his family up to D 25 a person a week, subject to a limit of D 500 for each account a year. Some of the above operations may be made freely through the intermediary of authorized banks, while certain others (e.g., credit or debit operations resulting from the sale or pur- chase of business concerns, or securities not ad- mitted to the Tunisian stock exchange) require the authorization of the Central Bank. Transfers may be made freely between Capital Accounts of countries in the area of convertibility, between those of countries in the French Franc Area, and between those related to the same country in the bilateral group, or from the first-mentioned group to those in the other groups. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents are intended mainly for foreigners staying temporarily in Tunisia and gainfully employed there; the opening of these accounts requires the approval of the Cen- tral Bank. Suspense Accounts are used for the purpose of crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents in Tunisia which may not be credited to other non- resident accounts either in accordance with a gen- eral or an individual license of the Central Bank of Tunisia. Suspense Accounts may be debited with- out the prior authorization of the Central Bank in respect of purchases of Tunisian securities, sub- scriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, payments to the Tunisian Government or public institutions, and settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder or his fam i ly up to D 25 a person a week and not exceeding D 500 a year for any one fam i ly. All other debits of these accounts require the individ- ual authorization of the Central Bank of Tunisia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments Imports of some 70 goods f rom any country ( inc lud ing France and other countries of the French Franc A rea) are "prohibited," but may be authorized by individual license. All imports f rom Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. Cer ta in commodities are imported under state trad ing. These include goods subject to govern- ment monopolies, e.g., tobacco, matches, p lay ing cards, and imports f rom the United States under Public Law 480. In addition, certain government agencies, of which the main one is the Office du Commerce, are granted a monopoly over the import of commodities fa l l ing w i th in their sphere of activity (coffee, tea, sugar, specified f ru i ts, e tc .). Moreover, certain commodities, such as timber, paper, and certain metallurgical products, may be imported only by importers who are members of an importers' association. Imports by such asso- ciations and by state agencies are subject to the same licensing arrangements as those applicable to pr iva te imports. Apa rt f r om the "prohibited" imports, imports originating in France or other countries of the French Franc Area do not, in principle, require import licenses. Exceptions are the following, which are subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction and require ind iv idual licenses: ( 1) imports of some 25 commodities or groups of commodities that are subject to global quotas applicable to all coun- tries, ( 2) impor ts of commodities for which bilat- eral quotas have been agreed with countries out- side the French Franc Area,2 and (3) imports f r om France of goods included in a list agreed upon between the French and the Tunisian author- ities and which are subject to quotas applicable to France only. Among the goods included in the list are pe r fumes and cosmetics, wood, leather goods, woven fabrics, certain clothing, jewelry, certain iron and steel products, air conditioners, washing and drying machines, motor vehicles, and clocks and watches. Payments for imports f rom France or other countries of the French Franc Area must have prior authorization f rom the Central Bank; a paymen ts application must be sub- m i t ted through an authorized bank before pur- - These coun t r i es in c lude most European OECD coun- t r ie s, in add i t ion to the coun t r ies w i th w h i ch p a ym e n ts agreemen ts are in force (see section on P r e s c r ip t ion of Currency, abov e ). TUNISIA chase contracts are entered into. Such authoriza- tion is a lways granted. When applying for per- mission to make these paymen ts, importers must declare "on their honor" t h at they do not have in the French Franc Area financial resources which could be used for this purpose. The prior approval of the Ministry of Planning and National Economy is required for all imports, irrespective of origin, that are financed with supplier's credit. Import licenses for nonliberalized goods f rom countries outside the French Franc Area require the prior approval (avis technique) of the com- petent m in is try; the prior aproval (visa) of the Central Bank is required for making the corre- sponding import payment. Excluding "prohibited" imports, the import licensing system as applied to countries outside the French Franc Area with which Tunisia does not have bilateral payments arrangements distinguishes between ( 1) liberalized goods, for which licenses, in principle, are granted au toma t ica l ly; ( 2) goods subject to global quotas, which may be imported f rom any coun try; and ( 3) goods admitted under quotas established in bilat- eral trade agreements. There have been certain delays in gran t ing licenses for liberalized goods. The f ree list does not apply to payments agreement countries. Save in exceptional circumstances, licenses for goods not included in the free list, the global quota list, or the "prohibited" list are reserved for countries with which bilateral trade agreements are in force. Imports of certain spare parts valued at not more than D 500 are free of license. All imports from countries with which there are bilateral paymen ts agreements require ind iv idual licenses. Licenses are granted on the basis of global quotas or of bilateral quotas, where such quotas exist. In some cases, private compen- sation transactions are approved. To obtain an import license, importers must be listed in the commercial register and must have received a code number. All import documents involving pay- ments must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. Import taxes of 5, 10, and 15 per cent apply to 300 sections of the ta r i f f; certain essential items, viz., milk, dairy products, and pharmaceuticals, are exempt. These taxes are applied on the c.i.f. value plus customs duties, and are in addition to duties. There are also some other import taxes. 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some invisibles this authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. Provided that appropriate documentation is submitted, approval is given for payments for certain current transactions, including remittances of profits, dividends, and interest due to nonresi- dents. Payments for such items as business travel and fam i ly maintenance are approved up to certain limits; in addition, exporters and hotel owners holding balances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these freely for business travel and publicity expenditures abroad. Foreigners employed in Tunisia may remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their mon th ly salary, subject to a maximum of D 100 a month if their fam i ly lives in Tunisia or D 150 a month if they do not have their family with them. Other payments are more severely restricted. Residents of Tunisia traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allocation equivalent to D 50 (D 25 for children under 10). The allocation may be taken in the form of foreign banknotes. The export of foreign banknotes is subject to authorization by the Cen- tral Bank. The export of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Exports to other parts of the French Franc Area and liberalized exports not exceeding D 50 to other countries do not require a license. All other exports require export licenses. For all exports, exporters must give under tak ings to repa- triate the exchange proceeds; the repatriation must ordinarily take place within 15 days from the date payment is due, and, in any event, within 100 days f rom the date of shipment unless otherwise allowed by the Central Bank. Exporters and hotel owners may have credited to special EFAC (Exportations- Frais Accessoires) accounts the equivalent in dinars of a part of their export proceeds, viz., 2 per cent for a cash sale and 1 per cent for a sale on credit. Such accounts may be maintained in convertible or bilateral dinars, depending on the currency surrendered. Balances in EFAC accounts may be used free ly for business travel and publicity expenses abroad. Any balance in excess of D 1,000 must be surrendered. 426 A special tax of 10 per cent is levied on exports of olive oil (except olive oil in containers of 1 kilo- gram or less), salt, and cork, and a tax of 15 per cent on specified calcium phosphates and super- phosphates, metallurgical ores, scrap iron, raw lead, and lead residuals. Proceeds front Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived f rom services rendered to per- sons resident abroad, including residents of the French Franc Area, and also all other income or proceeds from invisibles received from countries outside the French Franc Area. Foreign bank- notes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely. The import of Tunisian bank- notes is prohibited. Capital All nonresidents, including residents of other countries of the French Franc Area, who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tunisian authorities in order to secure the guarantee for the transfer of principal of, and current earnings f rom, such investments. All foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia are granted foreign exchange up to D 3,500 upon leaving Tunisia permanently; amounts in excess of this limit are credited to Capi- tal Accounts, as are inheritances received after the departure of the beneficiary. Proceeds from the liquidation of nontransferable foreign assets (e.g., real estate) must also be credited to Capital Accounts. All capital transfers by Tunisian nationals require the approval of the Central Bank. The purchase by Tunisian residents of foreign securi- ties on foreign stock exchanges is, in principle, forb idden; in some instances, authorization is granted for a resident to subscribe abroad to a share issue by an enterprise in which he is already a shareholder. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tunisia for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jew- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution elry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1967 January 31. Import quotas totaling D 2.3 mil- lion and valid until the end of 1967 were announced for specified products originating in and shipped from France. April 1. A compensatory tax of 6 per cent ad valorem was levied on imports of iron and steel. April 21. The export tax of 10 per cent was abolished for olive oil shipped in small containers. May 12. The global import quotas for 1967 were announced. June 22. A new agreement with the State Trad- ing Corporation of India provided for exports of TUNISIA 300,000 tons of Tunisian phosphates in the period June 15, 1967-March 31, 1968. August 4. In order to obtain permission f rom the Central Bank to make payments for imports f rom the French Franc Area, importers were required to submit a transfer application, through an authorized bank, before entering into purchase contracts. September 8. An agreement with France was signed under which the latter would make avail- able about F 45 million in official credit and export credit. October 17. The Central Bank instructed the authorized banks to cease issuing payments orders in quoted currencies when invoices were expressed in unquoted currencies. They were required to express payments orders in the currency of the country to which the payment was due, and the Central Bank undertook to effect payment through its correspondents abroad and to charge the payor for the purchase of a quoted currency. 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0987412 gram of fine gold per Turkish Lira or LT 9.00 = US$1. The official rates are LT 9.00 buying, and LT 9.08 selling, per US$1. Official rates for other currencies are established by the Central Bank of Turkey on the basis of the par value of the other currency con- cerned. A tax of 50 per cent (m in imum LT 500) is levied on foreign exchange purchased for most travel purposes, including the cost of transporta- tion. Remittances by Turkish workers abroad are converted at the par value; when the Turkish lira equivalent is credited to an account at a bank in Turkey, the account is immediately credited w i th an additional 27 per cent of the amount converted. The cost of this additional paymen t, representing three years' interest at 9 per cent per annum, is borne by the government budget. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minis- try of Finance. Import programs are prepared by the Ministry of Commerce in conjunction w i th the Ministry of Finance and in consultation with the Central Bank and other interested institutions. The selection of permitted imports and the deter- m ina t ion as to whether they should be admitted free of restriction or under quan t i ta t ive l im i ta t ion is the responsibility of the M in is t ry of Commerce. Foreign exchange is allocated by the Central Bank or, for some categories of imports under quotas, by the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Indus t ry or the appropriate m in is t ry. Certain for- eign exchange allocations for imports require the prior approval of the competent m in is try, pri- mar i ly for public security, agricultural, or health reasons, even if an import license has been obtained or the commodity is on the liberalized list. The Central Bank issues import licenses, and the Ministry of Commerce issues export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Turkey has bilateral paymen ts agreements l are made in 1 B u l g a r i a, Czechos lovak ia, Eas tern G e rm any (an a g r e em e nt be tween the Chambe rs of Comme rce ), H u n- g a ry, Is rae l, Po land, R um a n i a, U.S.S.R., Un i ted A r ab R e p u b l i c, a nd Yugo s l av i a. 428 accordance with the terms of the relevant agree- ment. Certain commercial settlements with the other members of the Regional Cooperation for Development (Iran and Pak is tan) are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies; exceptionally, however, exports of certain goods and services to specified countries may be settled in Turkish liras released under debt liquidation agreements from blocked balances. Imports and Import Payments All commercial imports require import licenses, which are valid for six months, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs w i th in this period. Import licenses are issued to registered importers ( import me rchan ts ), industrialists (manu fac tu re rs importing for their own needs), state economic enterprises, and government departments. Private individuals and corporate bodies are required to secure an "importer's certifi- cate" before submitting through the authorized banks applications for licenses to import goods for commercial purposes. However, exporters, operators of mining undertakings and tourist estab- lishments, and industrialists are not required to secure an "importer's certificate" for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs. Most goods are imported in accordance with the provisions of import programs, which are planned for a year and announced for six-month periods in Janua ry and July. The import pro- grams, which include commodities financed w i th funds from the U.S. Agency for In terna t ional Development (A ID ), classify imports in two cate- gories: ( 1) a list of liberalized goods, consisting of two par ts (Lists I and I I ), for which import licenses are issued f ree ly; and ( 2) a list of goods subject to global quotas. With some exceptions, imports of goods that do not appear on e i ther of these lists are prohibited. The list of liberalized goods and the list of global quotas apply, in prin- ciple, only to imports from countries other than those w i th which Turkey has bilateral paymen ts agreements; goods not included in either of these two import lists may not be imported under the bilateral quotas. For some goods on the liberali- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution zation and global quo ta lists, impor ters have the option of app ly ing for exchange allocations f rom U.S. AID fund s, while other goods on these l is ts may be imported only with U.S. AID f u n ds and only f rom the Un i ted States. An over-all foreign exchange allocation is set aside by the Central Bank for imports of goods on the liberalization list. Applications for import licenses for goods on this list may be subm i t ted through authorized banks at any t ime du r ing the v a l id i ty of the l is t; these banks prepare the impo rt licenses and fo rwa rd them to the Cen tral Bank for approval. For ce r ta in liberalized goods, the pr ior approval of the m in i s t ry concerned is also requ i red. Allocations under the global quota list are d iv ided in to three broad subquotas for investment, for registered importers, and for industrialists. A l loca t ions for impor ts on the global quota list are made by the Cen t ral Bank, by one of several m in is t r ies, or by the Un ion of Chambers of Com- merce and Indu s t ry, w i th in quan t i ta t ive limits established for each quota item. In p r inc ip le, quotas for impor ters are allocated by the Central Bank on a pro ra ta basis, but for some items the prior approval of the m in is t ry concerned is also requ ired. App l ica t ions for these quotas must be made through an authorized bank w i th in one mon th of the date of publication of the quota list. No single importer may apply for more than 20 per cent of the quota set for any pa r t icu lar commod i ty. App l ican ts are no t if ied of a l loca t ions made by the Cen t ral Bank through the authorized banks. W i th in two mon ths of rece iv ing such notice of an a l loca t ion, the impor ter must app ly for an impo rt license through an au tho r ized b ank. Quotas for indu s t r ia l i s ts are allocated by the Un ion of Chambe rs of Commerce and I n d u s t ry or the M in i s t ry of I n d u s t ry on the basis of such criteria as capac i ty, ou tpu t, and previous performance. A f t er the app l icant has secured an allocation ( i .e ., has been issued a "certificate of need"), he must app ly through an au thor ized bank to the Central Bank for an impo rt license w i t h in three mon ths, and no la ter than one mon th f rom the expiration da te of the quota l is t. Some quotas, irrespec t ive of the ca tegory ( e i t h er impo r te rs' or indus t r ia l is ts ') in wh ich they are inc luded, are a l loca ted by pa r- t i c u l ar au tho r i t ie s, for ex amp l e, the M i n i s t r i es of A g r i c u l t u r e, Commerce, F inance, Indu s t ry, or TURKEY Health and We l fa re; a f t er securing an allocation under these quotas, the applicant must follow the procedure for impor ts under indus tr ia l is ts' quotas. Imports from bilateral agreement countries are subject to separate quotas. The import licensing procedure for goods f rom these countries is the same as for imports under global quotas, except that applications under the b i la teral quotas speci- fied in each agreement are dealt w i th on a mon th ly basis. The import license pe rm i ts the necessary for- eign exchange payment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against a letter of credit, documen ts, or goods. However, for liberalized imports and those f inanced f rom U.S. AID funds, payment may be made only aga inst a le t ter of credit. When the payment is to be made aga inst a letter of cred i t, registered impo r te rs and indus- tr ia l is ts are required to prepay in local cu r rency the equ iva lent of the foreign exchange applied fo r. For paymen ts against documents or goods for global quota list imports, importers and indus- trialists are required to prepay 50 per cent of the va lue of the impor t, while the remainder is paid when the foreign exchange t rans fer is effected, w i th the proviso that it must be effec ted w i th in five mon ths f rom the date of the import license in the case of paymen ts against documents and within one month f rom the date of customs clearance in the case of paymen ts against goods. Gua ran tee deposits for imports, whether financed from U.S. AID f u n ds or not, are payab le in advance, genera l ly as fo l lows: for goods on l ibe ra l iza t ion List I, 70 per cent of the value of the merchandise is payable, and on List II, 100 per cen t; for imports under global quotas or bilateral quotas, 30 per cent of the value of the import application is payab le by importers, and 10 per cent by indus t r ia l is ts, at the t ime application to import is made. Gua ran tee deposits are payable irrespective of the method of p aym ent employed. The public sector is exempt, however, and in many cases indu s t r ia l i s ts make a symbolic deposit of 1 per cent (on imports under inves tment quotas set aside for the ir use and applicable to converti- b le cu r rency coun t r ies o n l y ). The deposit r em a ins blocked u n t il the goods have been impo r ted and the fo re ign supp l ier p a id; it is then re funded to the impo r te r. 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY For imports to be financed from U.S. AID funds, a guarantee payment of 10 per cent not to exceed LT 100,000 is payable for imports of the public sector other than central government agen- cies, irrespective of whether the goods are included in the liberalization list or the quota list. Imports without an allocation of foreign exchange may be permitted by the customs authorities, the Central Bank, or the Ministry of Finance under certain conditions. Private per- sons and legal entities may import freely com- modities for personal or family use within a limit of LT 500 for each shipment; residents may import freely goods on the liberalization list with- out obtaining any allocation of foreign exchange, provided that an import permit is held. In addi- tion to personal effects, foreign tourists may import goods and machinery for their personal or fam i ly use. For Turkish residents returning f rom working abroad, such imports may amount to LT 10,000 in total value, provided that the goods in question are for use in their profession. Persons arriving in Turkey are permitted to import as personal effects commodities (excluding cars, motorcycles, and bicycles with motors) up to a value of LT 1,000. Turkish nationals returning to Turkey after spend- ing at least one year abroad and foreigners enter- ing Turkey to become residents may import their used household goods. Imports without an allo- cation of foreign exchange by specified immigrants are limited to commodities included either in the liberalization list or in the quota list; no license for a commodity on the quota list may exceed 20 per cent of the current quota for that item or the equivalent of US$10,000, whichever is lower. Residents temporarily working abroad who combine to fo rm a company to operate in Turkey are permitted to import investment goods under Ministry of Finance quotas, against remittances in foreign exchange. Turkish nationals employed abroad may obtain import licenses for machinery and certain other commodities valued at up to US$10,000 for use in their profession on return, provided that during a 24-month period they transferred to Turkey at least US$25 but not more than US$125 a month and provided that they under take to m a in t a in pe rmanent residence in Tu rkey. Foreign contractors may import machinery, vehicles, and scientific instruments without request- 430 ing an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are proved to be necessary for their operations in Turkey. These items may not be imported on a temporary basis under the relevant customs regulations. Foreign companies estab- lished in Turkey may import spare parts not intended for new investments, without requesting an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are necessary for their operations. All such imports require the permission of the exchange control authorities. Goods imported on these terms must not be sold to third parties in Turkey. Turkish residents who have remained abroad for more than one year may import automobiles,2 provided that each individual has owned and oper- ated the vehicle for a period of at least 6 months prior to his return, that the automobile was not more than three years old at the time of acquisi- tion, and that it does not exceed 1,600 kilograms in weight. The earnings of persons who travel abroad on official business on a temporary basis for periods of less than one year are considered as savings when these earnings are in excess of US$300 monthly. Such persons may import an automobile registered in their names abroad, pro- vided that over a 24-month period the individual's savings amount to at least US$1,000. Personal effects of persons entering Turkey are exempt from customs duty, while all other imports with- out an allocation of foreign exchange are subject to the payment of customs duty. Automobiles imported without a foreign exchange allocation may be sold to residents by the Turkish nationals who have imported them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey may sell their auto- mobiles to Turkish residents freely, provided that the necessary import duties are paid at the time of the sale, that Turkish diplomats in the seller's country are granted reciprocal privileges, and that proceeds from such sales are not transferred abroad. Foreign officials other than diplomats may not sell to Turkish nationals any automobiles imported duty-free under special agreements. Other foreign nationals resident in Turkey may import automobiles under certain conditions, but they must be exported af ter three years. This three-year period, however, may be extended. - Au tomob i les are not included in the impo rt p rog ram. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Also, the Ministry of Finance may permit the sale of such cars to the State Supply Office, to other government agencies, or to nonprofit organizations. In addition to customs du ty, imported goods are subject to the following charges: (1) a cus- toms surcharge of 15 per cent of the applicable customs du ty; (2) a stamp duty of 10 per cent of the declared value; (3) a quay duty of 5 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, cus- toms surcharge, stamp duty, and customs clear- ance expenses; and (4) a production tax ranging generally f rom 10 per cent to 25 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs sur- charge, stamp duty, customs clearing expenses, and quay duty. The quay duty is not payable on goods imported by air. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses which usually are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted liberally for the follow- ing, provided that applications are accompanied by specified documents: payments related to trade (including shipping costs), subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, purchases of books, payments for registration fees, advertising ex- penses, consulate income, payments by the Gov- ernment, payments by the Post Office Admin- istration and similar state institutions, banks' commissions and expenses, a proportion of insur- ance companies' payments, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for commercial transactions. The trans- fer of income related to approved foreign invest- ments is permitted freely. Interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agri- cultural character) may be granted transferability between foreign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. Turkish citizens are not allowed to leave the country without having obtained an allocation of exchange for travel, but this does not apply to foreign nationals residing in Turkey. The allow- ance of exchange for tourist travel by residents (irrespective of na t iona l i ty) is the equivalent of US$200 a calendar year (US$110 for persons under 18 years of age ). Turkish citizens traveling to Cyprus may obtain an exchange allocation TURKEY equivalent to up to US$200 on request; this does not affect their right to claim the tourist travel allowance. Exchange for business travel is granted within the limits of annual quotas, which vary according to the commercial income of the appli- cant firm. For exporting companies, the limit is related to their export proceeds. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes (e.g., education, participation in international meetings, fairs, ath- letic meets, etc., and personal business) is sold up to specified limits. In addition, persons who can certify that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical treatment may purchase the necessary foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, of which the main one is travel for reasons of health, a tax of 50 per cent (m in imum LT 500) is payable on all exchange purchased for travel abroad, on the purchase of tickets for foreign travel, and on baggage charges. Travelers are permitted to take out LT 100 in Turkish banknotes and coins. Nonresidents may take out without any restriction the unspent por- tion of the foreign exchange which they brought in. Nonresident travelers who wish to reconvert Turkish liras into foreign currency when leaving the country are required to present a document showing that foreign exchange had previously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are free of license, but a few com- modities require an export license, either in order to prevent re-export or to assure adequate supplies for the domestic market. Exports not payable in convertible currencies are subject to licenses and to export quotas. Exporters are required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods exported, within three months from the date of export or within ten days from the date on which the foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign tourists are required to exchange the ir foreign currency at banks or with authorized insti- tutions. Firms or individuals not in the category of authorized institutions may not accept more than the equivalent of US$50 from foreign tour- ists and are required to surrender any exchange 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY earnings in the form of foreign banknotes and travelers checks to an authorized bank w i th in ten days. Otherwise, foreign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to nonresi- dents must be surrendered to an authorized ex- change dealer within three months f rom the date on which the service was rendered or w i th in ten days f rom the date of acquisition of the exchange. Remittances from Turkish workers abroad must be converted at the par value. When the Turkish lira equivalent is credited to a bank account in Turkey, an additional amount of 27 per cent is immediately credited to the account repre- senting three years' interest at 9 per cent per annum; the amounts deposited plus the interest can be withdrawn at any time. Group travel in Turkey by nonresidents that is organized by per- sons or firms who have invested in tourism through blocked funds may be financed from blocked lira balances. Foreign travelers wishing to take out articles of a value exceeding LT 2,000 must show proof that they have converted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceed- ing this limit. The import of Turkish banknotes and coins by travelers (whether of Turkish or foreign nation- ality) is limited to LT 100. The import of for- eign currency by travelers is unrestricted. Capital Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital transactions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange con- trol authorities. Residents are not normally per- mitted to acquire foreign securities or real estate. With the exception of certain investments made in accordance w i th the provisions of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments or the Petroleum Law (see below), foreign companies and contrac- tors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating funds in the form of foreign exchange, although under certain conditions blocked funds may be used for investment in the tourist industry (see below). Borrowing in Turkish liras by such foreign compa- nies and contractors is subject to quotas set by the M in is try of Finance in accordance with their equity capital in Turkey. Except for approved investments, nonresidents may not convert into 432 foreign currency any assets or balances owned by them, or earnings accruing to them; all earnings are blocked but if, at the end of the calendar year, such earnings are less than LT 5,000, the amount involved is deblocked. Subject to indi- vidual permission, blocked assets and balances may be utilized within Turkey, e.g., for the benefit of third parties to be used for certain tourist trips on a collective basis in Turkey or for film produc- tion in Turkey; for the payment of taxes, insur- ance, and maintenance and repair of property; and for living expenses of up to LT 4,500 a month for each beneficiary for owners of such funds or their authorized representatives, and up to LT 2,500 for certain relatives. They may not, however, be utilized as business capital except for investment in the tourist industry. Normally, such blocked funds may not be transferred to others except by legal succession. The investment of blocked funds in the tourist industry is subject to the following conditions: ( 1) there must be a contribution in new foreign exchange or imported equipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked funds to be used and ( 2) the investor must undertake not to request transfer for at least five years of that part of the capital financed by means of the blocked funds. Blocked funds used in this manner are considered as foreign capital imported under the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance with the Paris Agreement on Commercial Debts Owed by Resi- dents of Turkey (1959) may be used either par- tially or wholly by the creditors for investment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any time prior to the date, established under the Agreement, when the balances may be transferred. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the provisions of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments. However, invested funds and income related thereto may not be transferred abroad before the transfer date established under the Agreement, except for investment in the export industry or in other industries earning foreign exchange; in such instances the equivalent of up to 25 per cent of the investment may be trans- ferred annua l ly. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law to Encourage Foreign Invest- ments is accorded preferential treatment, provided ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution that the enterprise in which the investment is to be made is deemed to con tr ibu te to the economic development of the country, or will operate in a field of activity open to Turkish private enterprise and will not entail monopoly or special privilege. Under this law, all or part of the invested capital or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Upon application, the Ministry of Finance guarantees the transfer of dividends and of the proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of shares or stock certificates registered on the books of companies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are free ly transferab le between foreign nationals, both in Turkey and abroad, and between foreign na t iona ls and residents. The transfer guarantees pass on to the new owner, provided that his name is notified to the Ministry of Finance; if the shares or stock certificates are sold to a resident, how- ever, they must be presented to the Ministry of Finance for cancellation of the guarantees. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey ( inc lud ing those of an agricultural character) may be accorded the same transfer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Petroleum Law is ac- corded additional preferential treatment. Transactions in securities, including their ex- port and import, requ ire approval when nonresi- dent interests are involved. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Turkey for num isma t ic purposes. W i th this excep- tion, residents other than the mone tary au thor i t ies and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1967 January 2. Foreign tourists were required to exchange the ir fore ign currency at banks or o ther authorized institutions. Other firms or individuals were not perm i t ted to accept more than the equiva- TURKEY lent of US$50 f rom foreign tourists and were required to surrender exchange in the fo rm of foreign banknotes or travelers checks to an author- ized bank within ten days. January 4. The eighteenth import program, covering the first half of 1967, was announced. The announcement ended the temporary suspen- sion of liberalized imports of December 23, 1966. Total import allocations in 1967 would amount to US$800 million (against US$725 million in 1966); the share of consumer goods in the total was reduced to about 12 per cent, and imports f rom bilateral countries were set at US$90 million (against US$80 million in the 1966 p rog ram ). Fifty per cent of the program was to be allocated in the first half of 1967. Minor changes were made in the liberalized and quota lists. The rates of guarantee deposit required for U.S. AID imports were increased to those established for general imports, and the provision whereby such deposits were released when the letter of credit was opened was rescinded. Guaran- tee deposits for either type of import had to be lodged w i th in ten days of the date of issuance of the import license and could no longer be set off against the amount of the letter of credit. A change was also made in the symbolic rate of guarantee deposit for imports under investment quotas set aside for industrialists. The 1 per cent rate previously applied also to imports of invest- ment goods f rom the bilateral agreement countries; henceforth, the rate for all imports from agree- ment countries was that applicable to other sources of supply (e.g., either 70 or 100 per cent for goods on the liberalized l is t ), except that a rate of 10 per cent was applied to goods set aside for specific branches of industry if these goods were also included in the quota lists attached to the rele- vant bilateral agreement. The public sector was exempted from making the 1 per cent deposit. The guarantee deposit for spare parts and acces- sories for motorized land vehicles was raised from 100 per cent to 125 per cent. Certain goods on the free or quota list could no longer be applied for by private firms or required prior authorization by the ministry concerned. February 2. The quay du ty was increased f rom 2l/2 per cent to 5 per cent ad valorem and was extended to apply to all imported goods arriv- ing by sea; previously, the 2l/2 per cent du ty 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY was applied only to goods cleared through speci- fied government-owned ports ("Maritime Bank ports"). February 13. The Council of Ministers was empowered by law to levy stamp tax at a rate not to exceed 15 per cent. The existing stamp duty applicable to all imports was increased from 5 per cent to 10 per cent of the value declared for customs purposes. June 9. The regulations covering imports with- out foreign exchange (applicable mainly to Turk- ish workers employed abroad) were tightened. Turkish residents who had stayed abroad for more than one year were permitted to import automo- biles on return, provided that the vehicle had been owned and operated for a period of at least six months, that it was not more than three years' old at the time of acquisition, and that it did not exceed 1,600 kilograms in weight. The earnings of per- sons who travel abroad on official business on a temporary basis for periods of less than one year were to be considered as savings when in excess of US$300 a month. Such an official might import an automobile, provided that it had been registered in his name abroad and that over a 24-month period the aggregate of the individual's savings was at least US$1,000. The arrangement was abolished by which workers were permitted to import house- hold goods (up to LT 3,000 by customs authorities and in excess of that amount at the discretion of the Central B ank ). Workers might now import household goods up to a value of LT 1,000 (excluding motorcycles) and to LT 10,000 when the goods were to be used in the worker's profes- sional activities in Turkey. However, the value of goods that residents could import freely for their personal use was increased from LT 300 to LT 500 a shipment. As before, both categories of imports could be permitted up to higher amounts if the prior approval of the Central Bank was obtained. June 9. Nonresidents and residents were per- mitted to open with banks in Turkey deposit accounts denominated in liras but fed by foreign exchange transfers. Deposits on these accounts and accrued interest might be transferred abroad in foreign exchange. 434 June 9. Residents temporarily working abroad who combine to form a company to operate in Turkey were permitted to meet their need for investment goods under Ministry of Finance quotas, against remittances in foreign exchange. July 1. A regional payments agreement between Turkey, Pakistan, and Iran (the members of the Regional Cooperation for Development) came into effect. Fifty per cent of each payment for visible trade (other than defense materials) between members was to be settled through clear- ing accounts denominated in U.S. dollars that the three central banks maintained with each other, and the other 50 per cent in convertible currency. July 4. The nineteenth import program, cover- ing the second half of 1967, was announced. Minor changes were made in the liberalized and quota lists. The new program did not result in a reduction of the US$800 million import total set for 1967. July 15. The limits on the export and import of Turkish banknotes and coins by travelers were reduced to LT 100 from LT 200 and LT 500, respectively. The amount of goods (other than personal effects) that foreign travelers could take out without showing evidence of conversion of foreign exchange was reduced from LT 5,000 to LT 2,000. September 23. Turkish nationals employed abroad could obtain import licenses for machinery and certain other commodities valued at up to US$10,000 for use in their profession on return, provided that during a 24-month period they trans- ferred to Turkey at least US$25 but not more than US$125 a month and provided that they under- took to maintain permanent residence in Turkey. December 8. The operation of the liberalization list was suspended until the announcement in January 1968 of the new import program. December 12. Payments for direct transactions between Turkey and Spain could take place in convertible currencies between commercial banks in the two countries. Previously, they were chan- neled through the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Uganda Shilling or U Sh 7.14286 = US$1. There is a fixed relationship between the Uganda shilling and the pound sterling of £ 1 = U Sh 17.1429. The Uganda shilling circulates con- currently with the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, and the East African shilling previously issued by the East African Currency Board; Kenya shillings and Tanzania shillings may be exchanged into Uganda shillings at par at commercial banks or at the Bank of Uganda, and East African shil- lings may be so exchanged at a rate of EA Sh 20 = U Sh 17.1429. In transactions equivalent to at least <£ stg. 5,000 with the public, the Bank of Uganda stands ready to issue Uganda shillings in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for Uganda shillings; the official limits for the buying and selling rates for sterling differ from the rate of <£! = U Sh 17.1429 by V8 and % per cent, respectively. The Bank deals with its banking customers and, for large transactions, with the public at rates between the official limits. In transactions covering smaller amounts, the public has to deal through the authorized banks. The buying and selling rates for such transactions are at present within the official limits. The Bank does not deal in foreign currencies l other than sterling. Banks in Uganda base their rates for such foreign currencies on the current market rates in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Uganda on behalf of the Treasury. Authority for approving normal import payments, many pay- ments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments to countries other than Kenya and Tanzania is delegated to the authorized banks. Import and export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry under the External Trade Ordinance. The responsibility for issuing import and export licenses rests with the Minister of Commerce and Industry, to whom applications should be submitted by the importer or exporter in Uganda before orders are placed 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other th an the Uganda shilling, the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, and the East A f r ican shilling. abroad or exports are shipped. The National Trading Corporation has a monopoly over imports of specified commodities. Together with Kenya and Tanzania, Uganda is part of the East Afr ican currency area. Payments from Uganda to Kenya and Tanzania are free of restrictions. Prescription of Currency Uganda is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom; all settle- ments with Kenya and Tanzania, however, must be effected in East African currency.2 Payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area other than Kenya and Tanzania may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of a Sterling Area Account in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area currency; receipts from such countries must be obtained in Uganda shillings from a Sterling Area Account in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area currency. Payments for specified imports from India, how- ever, must temporarily be made to a designated account in Uganda shillings. Authorized pay- ments, including payments for imports, by resi- dents of Uganda to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Uganda shillings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any other non-Sterling Area currency except Rho- desian pounds that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Uganda shillings from an External Account, or in any other specified currency 3 that is not a Sterling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. 2 East A f r ican currency comprises Uganda shillings, Kenya shillings, and Tanzania shillings. 3 The specified currencies are listed as follows: Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish and Faroese k rone r, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, U.S. dollars, and all Sterling Area curren- cies o ther than the Uganda shilling, the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, and the East A f r ican shilling. 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments to such Sterling Area coun- tries by Uganda residents, with transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts, with transfers from External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Uganda of any foreign currency or gold by residents of any other country in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be debited freely for pay- ments for exports to other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Tanzania and other pay- ments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Tanzania to Uganda residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Tanzania for any purpose, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts in Uganda, for pur- chases of any Sterling Area currency, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Uganda; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Tanzania has been obtained, Sterling Area Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Uganda or else- where in the Sterling Area, and for purchases in Uganda of any non-Sterling Area currency or gold. Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized pay- ments to such countries by residents of Uganda, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) and gold by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Tan- zania has been obtained, External Accounts may also be credited with transfers from Sterling Area Accounts. They may be debited freely for pay- ments to residents of the Sterling Area, for trans- fers to other External Accounts in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area country, and for purchases 436 of non-Sterling Area currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, bal- ances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda; the redemption proceeds of certain government bonds so acquired are transferable beginning five years from the date of purchase. Subject to individual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export trans- actions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Uganda, and to Blocked Accounts in Kenya and Tanzania, require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy. All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. All imports from Kenya and Tanzania require import licenses but are unrestricted; some imports from Kenya are subject to transfer taxes. Apart from Kenya and Tanzania, two groups of countries can be distinguished for import licens- ing purposes: (1) specified countries 4 from which all imports are subject to individual licensing and (2) all other countries except Rhodesia and South Africa. The import from countries in the second group of many commodities is subject to individ- ual licensing irrespective of origin. The import from countries in the second group of a few other commodities is subject to individual licens- ing unless the goods originate in or are shipped from Kenya or Tanzania. All other commodities from countries in the second group may be imported freely without license. Certain commodi- ties may only be imported by the National Trad- ing Corporation which is a state trading agency; these include rice and ghee. When the importer has obtained a license from the Minister of Commerce and Industry, or if no license is required, exchange is provided automati- cally by an authorized bank upon production of the necessary documentary evidence by the 4 A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, Ma in land China, Republic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hunga ry, Ind ia, I ran, Iraq, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Poland, R um a n i a, Tangier, and U.S.S.R. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution importer that the goods have been shipped from the country of origin or imported into Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda. Payments for imports must be made within six months of the arrival of the goods in any one of these countries; the prior approval of the Bank of Uganda is required for suppliers' credit in excess of six months. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are controlled. Author- ized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to established limits; with the exception of transfers of savings from salaries by expatriate workers in Uganda, amounts above these limits as well as all other cur- rent payments are approved administratively if the authorities are satisfied that such payments do not represent an illegal export of capital. The basic allowance for travel outside the Scheduled Terri- tories r> is the equivalent of U Sh 5,000 a person a year, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes. Travelers to destinations outside Kenya and Tan- zania may take out up to U Sh 250 in Kenya, Tan- zania, Uganda, or East African shilling notes and up to U Sh 5,000 in other banknotes. Travelers proceeding direct to Kenya or Tanzania may export any amount in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, or East Afr ican shilling notes. Nonresident travel- ers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Fees for education up to the equivalent of U Sh 14,000 a person for a fu ll scholastic year and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon production of evidence of debt. A resident of Uganda may not send, as a gift, to a country other than Kenya or Tanzania more than U Sh 200 a year without specific exchange control approval. Facilities exist whereby salaried nationals, other than nationals of the Scheduled Territories, may during their stay in Uganda remit to their country of origin up to 50 per cent of their gross monthly earnings, to cover fam i ly maintenance, savings, etc. For residents who have lived in Uganda for more than four years, the savings element of the remittance is restricted to 20 per cent of the salary. G Uganda 's exchange control regu la t ions def ine the Scheduled Te r r i to r ies as Kenya, Tanzan ia, and Uganda. UGANDA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain foods tuffs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. Other goods may be exported without licenses. All exports to South Africa, metropolitan Portugal, and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected within six months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Uganda for con- version into Uganda shillings. An export tax of 40 per cent ad valorem is levied on copper and copper alloys sold at a price in excess of «£ stg. 400 a ton. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 3) must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in freely foreign cur- rency notes; the import of Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, or East Afr ican shilling notes must not exceed U Sh 250 in value for each traveler unless arriving direct from Kenya or Tanzania, in which case any amount may be brought in. Capital Capital transfers to all countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are restricted. Residents of Uganda, however, may be granted exemptions from the deposit and surrender requirements in respect of foreign assets for specified Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts to all countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers to destinations other than Kenya and Tanzania require individual exchange control approval. Residents of Uganda leaving the Scheduled Territories (see footnote 5) per- manently may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of U Sh 100,000. If they take up per- manent residence in their country of origin in the Sterling Area, approval is normally given for the fu r ther transfer of up to the equivalent of U Sh 40,000 upon each anniversary of their depar- ture. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account and may be invested in certain approved securities; such funds, if invested, 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA become transferable five years after being directed to a Blocked Account. There is no restriction on the investment of for- eign funds in Uganda; but to ensure eventual repa- triation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Invest- ments (Protection) Act, 1964, which in normal circumstances is given freely. Foreign and domes- tic investment in specified types of production require approval under the East African Licensing Ordinance. Dividends and profits due to nonresi- dents and distributed by companies operating in Uganda are transferable. Except in respect of Kenya and Tanzania, all imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by non- residents of Ugandan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to Blocked Accounts. Purchases of securities outside Kenya and Tan- zania by residents are not normally permitted. With minor exceptions, loans or overdraft facili- ties granted to a nonresident or to a body cor- porate resident in the Scheduled Territories which is by any means controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the Sched- uled Territories require prior exchange control approval. Commercial banks are not permitted to grant overdraft facilities to individuals and compa- nies in order to enable them to make overseas transfers. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary author- ities and industrial users. The import of the fol- lowing from all sources other than Kenya and Tanzania, and from Kenya and Tanzania when originating in other countries, is subject to indi- 438 vidual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or plati- num; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets), gold jewelry, and gold coins are issued to goldsmiths only and are issued restric- tively. Changes during 1967 January 18. The National Trading Corporation started operations. January 28. A number of additional com- modities required an individual import license, irrespective of the country of origin. February 10. A number of additional com- modities required an individual import license, irrespective of the country of origin. June 6. Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda signed a treaty establishing an East African Economic Community and Common Market (the Treaty for East African Cooperation). June 14. Import duties on many commodities were increased. It was announced that import licensing would eventually be extended to all com- modities, and that shortly all imports would have to be financed under letters of credit. All imports financed with suppliers' credit in excess of six months required the prior approval of the Bank of Uganda. July 20. A number of additional commodities required an individual import license, irrespective of the country of origin. These included cereals, sugar, tea, coffee, cocoa, tobacco, automobiles, motorcycles, refrigerators, shirts, footwear, and soap. July 24. Certain additional commodities required an individual import license when imported from Kenya or Tanzania. They included corn, corn flour, corn meal, cotton and ju te fabrics, and ju te or sisal bags and sacks. July 24. The Bank of Uganda instructed the commercial banks to reduce by 5 per cent the amount of outstanding credit, except for the most essential purposes, to limit advances against imported bonded goods to 75 per cent of their value, and to require customers to make cash deposits equivalent to 20 per cent of the value of the goods when opening import letters of credit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Virtually all imports were required to be made against letters of credit, and these could not exceed 80 per cent of the value of the goods to be imported. September 14. All banknotes issued by the East African Currency Board ceased to be legal tender in Uganda. Until fur ther notice, they would continue to be exchanged at par by all banks. September 26. A number of additional com- modities required an individual import license, irrespective of the country of origin. These included radios, television receivers, and certain fertilizers. November 3. The import of ghee, onions, rice, and cooking and table salt was reserved for the National Trading Corporation. November 18. The redemption of East African currency notes, which had been taking place at par, henceforth took place at the new exchange rate of the pound sterling. November 30. A consolidated list was issued of all commodities that were subject to individual import license, irrespective of the country of origin of the goods (Notice No. 130/67). December 1. Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda signed the declaration of inauguration of the East African Economic Community, thus putting into effect the Treaty for East African Cooperation. The treaty provided that, with the exception of transfer taxes, there would be no internal tariffs and no quantitative import restrictions other than UGANDA those on a limited special list of commodities. States which were in deficit in their total trade in specified manufactured goods with the other two countries were entitled to impose transfer taxes upon such goods originating in the other two coun- tries, but no transfer tax could be imposed for longer than eight years. The treaty also provided for the continuation of the common external cus- toms tar iff. Subject to exchange control laws and regula- tions that must not be in conflict with the treaty, remittances among the three countries would take place at official par values and free of any exchange commission; bona fide current payments among the three countries were to remain unre- stricted, but controls on capital payments could be applied under specified conditions. December 3. Transfer taxes ranging from 7 to 20 per cent were imposed on a range of manu- factured goods when imported from and originat- ing in Kenya. December 3. All quantitative restrictions on imports from Kenya and Tanzania of goods origi- nating in either country were abolished. All imports from these countries required individual import licenses, but these were granted freely. December 11. Authorized dealers were permit- ted to enter into contracts with their customers for forward purchases and sales of sterling, on an outright basis* only, for transactions consisting of exports of Ugandan goods or imports of goods into Uganda. 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System On September 18, 1949, a par value for the Egyptian Pound was established by the United Arab Republic with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions take place at rates based on the official rate of LE 1 = US$2.30, but an exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to most invisible and capital remittances. The rates of the Central Bank of Egypt at the end of December 1967 were LE 0.434782 buying, and LE 0.437390 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Supreme Committee for Foreign Exchange, which is set up by the Minister of Economy. The exchange con- trol laws, ministerial arrets, decree-laws, and instructions of the Minister of Economy and of the Supreme Committee are carried out by a Director of Exchange Operations appointed by the Minister of Economy. The technical work of exchange control is performed, under the super- vision and instructions of the Director of Exchange Operations, by the Central Exchange Control attached to the Central Bank. An Export Board controls exports. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Import Control'Office. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries with which the United Arab Republic does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in the cur- rency of the payee's country when that currency is available; in a convertible currency ;x in Egyp- tian pounds to the credit of the appropriate non- resident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Central Exchange Control. Receipts may be accepted in the currency of the payor's country, if it is a currency acceptable to the Central Bank; in any convertible currency; in Egyptian pounds to the debit of an appropriate nonresident account; 1 Convertible currencies are listed in the exchange con- trol regulations of the United Arab Republic as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Neth- e r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 440 or in any other manner permitted by the Central Exchange Control. Settlements with countries with which the United Arab Republic has payments agreements are made according to the terms of those agree- ments.2 Suez Canal dues must be paid in Egyptian pounds by debiting a Shipping Account No. 1. Balances on this type of account may be created by selling a convertible currency to an authorized bank in the United Arab Republic, or by debiting a Free Nonresident Account. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to the bilateral payments agreements of the United Arab Republic or to the indemnity agreements concluded with certain countries, there are three main types of nonresident accounts: Free Non- resident Accounts, Nonresident C Accounts, and Nonresident D Accounts. Free Nonresident Accounts may be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred from abroad; with trans- fers from other Free Nonresident Accounts; with interest on the accounts; and with the Egyptian pound equivalent of any transfer authorized in convertible currency by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited for payments due to residents; for transfers to other Free Nonresi- dent Accounts or Nonresident C or D Accounts; and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Nonresident C Accounts may also be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited with 2 The United Arab Republic has bilateral payments agreements with the following countries: Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, bast- ern Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iraq, Morocco, North Korea, Libya, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, Spain, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, Yemen, and Yugoslavia. In addition, for the financing of trade in certain specified commodities, credit facilities have been established between the Central Bank of Egypt and the central bank of each of the following countries: Cameroon, Ceylon, Cuba, Ghana, Guinea, India, Mali, Somalia, Sudan, and Turkey. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution proceeds from the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred from abroad; with trans- fers from Free Nonresident Accounts or other Nonresident C Accounts; and with any amounts authorized to be credited to these accounts by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited for payments due to residents (except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disbursements); for transfers to other Nonresident C Accounts; and— provided that Central Exchange Control authori- zation is obtained —for transfers to Nonresident D Accounts and for payments abroad in converti- ble currencies. Nonresident D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a payments agreement country (see footnote 2 ). The account must be designated by the name of the partner country concerned, and transfers from the account of one country to any other country may not be made without Central Exchange Control authorization. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers from a Free Nonresident Account and —provided that Central Exchange Control authorization obtained —with transfers from a Nonresident C Account; with transfers from other Nonresident D Accounts of the same nationality; and with any sum authorized to be credited to the account by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited for payments due to residents, except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disburse- ments, and —provided that Central Exchange Con- trol authorization is obtained —for transfers to other Nonresident D Accounts and for payments to the country in whose name the account is designated. There are also blocked accounts, to which may be credited any payment to a nonresident not remittable under the exchange control regulations. Transfers between blocked accounts require prior approval. These accounts may be debited for amounts up to LE 1,000 a year for living expenses of the account holder or his family in the United Arab Republic. They may also be debited, sub- ject to prior approval, for investments in U.A.R. Government loans or in registered shares in nominative form of companies established in the United Arab Republic, and for subscriptions to increases in capital of U.A.R. companies in which is UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC the account holder is already a shareholder. Income derived from such investments may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. All accounts held by residents of Rhodesia also are blocked; no transactions on these accounts may take place without prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods from any source, and all imports from Israel and Rhodesia, are pro- hibited. Imports of goods that are considered nonessential and goods that are also produced locally are restricted. A list of these restricted imports, which is revised from time to time, is published by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. In conformity with Ministerial Decree No. 286 of 1967, imports must be made, under the supervision of Commodity Boards, by publicly owned commercial companies affiliated with the Egyptian General Trade Organization. The Com- modity Boards are responsible for determining the over-all export and import policy in respect of the commodities for which they have been established. This includes the drawing up of the necessary implementation programs for the achievement of import targets in accordance with established priorities, and the examination of import offers, taking into consideration specifica- tions, prices, delivery dates, and means of pay- ment. As an exception to this system, direct imports may be made by certain industrial and other public sector establishments. For purposes of administration, the economy is divided into several sectors (the agricultural, industrial, and transportation sectors, etc.). The annual foreign exchange budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of the sector decide upon the essential goods to be imported within that quota. In draw- ing up this budget, an estimate is made first of the country's export proceeds and its earnings from invisibles, as well as the expected availability of foreign loans and other credit facilities. Allow- ance is then made for the commitments falling due during the fiscal year in respect of foreign debt service and other obligations, as well as payments for invisibles. The remaining resources in con- vertible and bilateral currencies are then allocated to the various sectors of the economy in accord- 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC ance with the essential import requirements of each. A financing committee has been established in the Central Bank in accordance with Ministerial Decree No. 286. When import transactions pay- able in convertible currencies have been decided upon either by the Commodity Boards or by sectors having the right of direct importation, they are submitted to the committee. Af ter its coordination of import requirements and available resources, authorization is given for the imple- mentation of the transactions, through the Egyp- tian General Trade Organization or the Exchange Control Department, to the bank designated for the sector concerned. Advance payments for imports in excess of LE 100 require the prior approval of the Exchange Control Department. Imports of new personal effects exceeding LE 100 in value and imports not requiring the transfer of foreign exchange are subject to import licenses, which are issued by the Import Control Department. A statistical tax of 10 per cent is payable on imports. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide exchange for payments for certain invisibles; for others, the prior approval of the Central Exchange Control is required. Exchange is normally made available for expenses associated with approved trade trans- actions and other current payments. Expenses for permitted travel, family maintenance, film royal- ties, and subscriptions and fees of professional organizations usually are approved within specified quotas. The allowance for permitted travel other than official travel is the equivalent of LE 75 a person a year. Private travel abroad, even when no exchange is applied for, is restricted to travel considered essential in the interest of the State and of the economy. An exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to all payments for invisibles except students' remit- tances, government payments, and transfers of funds for pilgrimages. Travelers may not export Egyptian pound bank- notes. Foreign tourists leaving the United Arab Republic may take with them any remaining for- eign exchange which they had brought in and 442 declared, but residents may not take out foreign banknotes in excess of LE 10 without specific permission. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from exports to Israel and Rhodesia, which are prohibited, and commodities required for the national economy, whose export may be restricted, exports may be made free of license, but an export form must be submitted. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months from the date of shipment of the goods. Proceeds from exports to payments agree- ment countries must be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles All persons and legal entities in the United Arab Republic are obliged to offer to authorized banks at the rate of exchange quoted by the Cen- tral Bank, within one month from the date of their collection abroad, all proceeds in foreign curren- cies derived from invisibles. Suez Canal dues must be received in Egyptian pounds from Shipping Accounts No. 1, which may be fed only with sales of convertible currencies or by transfers from a Free Nonresident Account. Certain travel in the United Arab Republic by nonresidents may be financed from Nonresident C or T Accounts. Persons arriving in the United Arab Republic from abroad may not import Egyptian pound banknotes but are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange, subject to customs declaration. Capital Transfers abroad by residents for the purpose of acquiring securities or other capital assets out- side the United Arab Republic require individual licenses, which normally are not granted except for transfers to some neighboring countries. The import and export of securities and similar items require licenses. Private capital transfers abroad are subject to an exchange tax of 5 per cent. Nonresidents may purchase freely securities on stock exchanges in the United Arab Republic against payment in foreign currencies acceptable ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to the Central Bank of Egypt or in Egyptian pounds by debiting an appropriate nonresident account. Certain categories of securities may be bought to the debit of blocked accounts (see sec- tion on Nonresident Accounts, above). Proceeds from sales of securities held under "nonresident dossier" are credited to blocked accounts. Trans- fers of securities between nonresidents require prior approval. Transfers abroad are permitted in respect of (1) securities drawn or matured in accordance with the original terms of issue; (2) the value of life or endowment policies on sur- render or at maturity; (3) matured mortgages; and (4) accrued alimony under court orders up t oLE 5,000. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a fam i ly— irrespective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released from a family's assets in the United Arab Republic to residents of foreign nationality who acquire non- resident status. Any amount above this limit is credited to a blocked account. Any payment of a capital nature not remittable under the exchange control regulations must be credited to a blocked account. The Foreign Investment Law of April 2, 1953 and Law No. 475 of 1954 define the treatment of new foreign investments that contribute to the development of the economy in the fields of industry, agriculture, metallurgy, mechanization, transport, and tourism, and establish the limits for transfers of profits. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by these laws are considered on an individual basis. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the United Arab Republic for numismatic pur- poses. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses. Changes during 1967 January 1. Additional imports from and exports to the other countries of the Arab Common Mar- ket were liberalized. UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC January 1. New trade and payments agree- ments with Ruman ia came into force replacing previous agreements. Current payments were made through sterling accounts subject to a swing credit of <£ stg. 2 million. January 16. The payments agreement concluded with the Syrian Arab Republic on June 8, 1966 came into force. Payments between the two countries were made through sterling accounts subject to a swing credit of <£ stg. 500,000. April 22. Nonresidents required prior approval to purchase with blocked account funds Egyptian shares, bonds, and other capital assets. May 12. The granting of exchange for travel purposes to residents was restricted to travel con- sidered essential in the interest of the State and of the national economy. June 1. Ministerial Decree No. 286 of May 24, 1967 went into effect, by which the import system was reorganized. June 3. The swing credit under the pay- ments agreement with the Sudan was increased from <£ stg. 1.5 million to <£ stg. 2.5 million. June 25. The proportion of payments for Somalia's imports from the United Arab Republic that was debited to Somalia's creditor balance resulting from the terminated payments agreement with the United Arab Republic was increased from 30 per cent to 50 per cent. July 27. A protocol with Iraq was signed that provided for the reciprocal elimination of all import duties. The swing credit under the bilateral payments agreement was increased to <£ stg. 1.5 million. August 19. A protocol was signed with Guinea stipulating that credit facilities up to US$250,000 in dollars of account would be exchanged between the two central banks for payments in respect of specified commodities. August 26. A new trade agreement with Ghana was signed, terminating the trade and payments agreement of May 31, 1961. All payments be- tween the two countries would take place in convertible currencies; however, credit facilities up to <£ stg. 500,000 were exchanged between 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC the two central banks for payments in respect of specified commodities. September 6. The payments agreement with the Syrian Arab Republic was modified. The swing credit was increased to <£ stg. 1 million. Certain reciprocal tariff reductions were also agreed upon. September 14. A trade agreement with Jordan was signed that provided for the reciprocal elimi- nation of all import duties. November 5. Foreign travel fares could no longer be settled by nonresidents (when traveling in the United Arab Republic) to the debit of a Nonresident C Account. 444 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Pound Sterling or <£ 1 = US$2.40. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are maintained between official limits of US$2.42 buying, and US$2.38 selling, per <£!. Market rates for spot transactions in other con- vertible or externally convertible currencies (except those currencies for which quotations are based on sterling, e.g., Australian dollars and New Zealand dollars) are free to move within a range of rates resulting from the official dollar limits of the United Kingdom in relation to the dollar limits of the other countries concerned. Authorized banks may, subject to the observance of limits upon the accumulation of spot foreign exchange, carry out forward transactions at rates which may fluctuate under the influence of market forces. Transactions with resident customers may be entered into only for approved purposes and, where there is an underlying commercial contract, in the currency of the contract. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currencies except the Rhodesian pound. The authorized banks may deal among them- selves and with residents and nonresidents in for- eign notes and coins (other than Rhodesian cur- rency) at free market rates of exchange. There is also a market in which the foreign exchange pro- ceeds (referred to as investment currency or security dollars) resulting mainly from the sale outside the Sterling Area of foreign currency securities 1 or direct investments owned by resi- dents may be negotiated at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official mar- ket rate; at the end of 1967, that premium was about 30 per cent. These funds are available for reinvestment in marketable foreign currency 1 The term "foreign currency securities" in this survey is generally to be read as mean ing securities expressed in a currency of a coun try outside the Sterling Area. Special regulations, however, are applicable to foreign currency securities payable in Rhodesian pounds. On J anu a ry 26, 1968, "foreign cu r rency securities" were redefined as mean ing securities in respect of which capital monies or d iv idend s / in te re st are payab le, or optionally payable, in the cu r rency of a coun t ry outside the Sterling Area. (On Feb rua ry 20, 1968, th is de f in i t ion was amended to exclude ce r ta in bonds t h at are or have been in de fau l t .) All other secu r i t ies are regarded as s te r l ing securities. securities and for approved direct investments out- side the Sterling Area. In another market the for- eign exchange proceeds (referred to as property currency) resulting from the sale outside the Sterling Area of property (mainly houses and apartments) owned by residents may be negoti- ated at freely determined rates; the premium over the official market rate was about 31 per cent at the end of 1967. These funds are available, with specific permission, for the purchase of a house or apartment for personal use in a country outside the Sterling Area (other than Rhodesia) for attendant expenses, and for improvements to such property. The United Kingdom accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Exchange control is not imposed on transactions with other parts of the Sterling Area ("Scheduled Territories" in the nomenclature of the U.K. exchange control) .2 Exceptionally, sterling pay- ments to Hong Kong are screened under Hong Kong regulations to ensure that residents in other parts of the Sterling Area do not have access to Hong Kong's free market, and special restrictions are imposed on the disposal of sterling assets of residents of Hong Kong. Control is also exercised over the acquisition of foreign currency securities from the rest of the Sterling Area. With respect to outward capital transfers, there is a program of voluntary restraint on direct and portfolio invest- ment in the more developed countries of the Ster- ling Area (Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, and South A f r i c a ), and on portfolio investment in countries outside the Sterling Area (see section on Capital, below). 2 In addition to the United Kingdom, the Sterling Area comprises Australia, Barbados, Botswana, Ceylon, Cyprus, The Gamb ia, Ghana, Guyana, Iceland, India, Irish Republic, Jamaica, Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Kenya, State of Kuwait, Lesotho, Libya, Malawi, Malay- sia, Ma l ta, New Zealand, Nigeria, Pakistan, Western Samoa, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, South- West Africa, People's Republic of Southern Yemen, Tan- zania, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, and Zambia, together with all British Dominions, Protectorates, Pro- tected States, and Trust Territories not previously men- tioned, except Canada and Rhodesia. The Maldive Islands are adm in is t ra t ive ly treated as being w i th in the Sterling Area. 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Administration of Control Nonresident Accounts Exchange control in the United Kingdom is administered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U.K. Treasury, as is the voluntary restraint program on certain outward investment. However, practically all commercial banks are authorized to approve most current payments requiring exchange control permission. The licensing of imports and exports is handled by the Board of Trade. Prescription of Currency Receipts from countries in the Sterling Area may be in any Sterling Area currency; those from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be in sterling from an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds ), which must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Payments to countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency; payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds. For security reasons, settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations generally prescribing the use of Rho- desian Accounts, Suspense Accounts, or, in certain circumstances, the Rhodesian Special Account with the Standard Bank, London. However, unless specifically included among the permitted debits to Rhodesian Accounts, all commercial payments, except those in respect of exports, due from persons resident in Rhodesia to residents of the United Kingdom must be received either in a non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rho- desian pounds) or, with the specific permission of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rho- desian Special Account; payments for exports from the United Kingdom to Rhodesia shipped on or after December 18, 1965 must be received in a non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds, or, with the specific approval of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account. Persons normally resident in Rhodesia who are living temporarily in the United Kingdom as students or workers may open Temporary Resident Accounts in sterling with authorized banks in the United Kingdom; debits to such accounts are generally permitted only for living expenses within the United Kingdom. 446 The sterling accounts of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area (except Hong Kong) are treated in the same way as those of residents of the United Kingdom. Thus, for transfers within the Sterling Area no U.K. exchange control per- mission is required; for payments to other coun- tries by residents of any territory of the Sterling Area, the authorized banks are required to ensure that the payment has the approval of the exchange control authority in the territory concerned. External Accounts. With the exception of Rhodesian Accounts and the Rhodesian Special Account (see below), the sterling accounts of nonresidents, i.e., those of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or non- Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds (including banknotes), and with sterling banknotes mailed from outside the Sterling Area. External Accounts may be debited freely for pay- ments to residents of the Sterling Area, for trans- fers to other External Accounts, for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts other than in payment for certain goods exported from Rhodesia, for pay- ments in cash in the United Kingdom, and for purchases of any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds (including banknotes) or gold. Rhodesian Accounts. These accounts are applicable to residents of Rhodesia only. Per- mitted credits include transfers from External Accounts other than in payment for certain goods exported from Rhodesia; payments by residents of Sterling Area territories other than the United Kingdom to residents of Rhodesia, subject to the approval of the exchange control authority in the territory concerned; and payments by U.K. resi- dents to residents of Rhodesia in respect of (1) the sale of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds, (2) the discount or ma tur i ty proceeds of U.K. Treasury bills, (3) permitted imports from Rhodesia which have entered cus- toms in the United Kingdom, (4) insurance and freight charges resulting from permitted trade between Rhodesia and any Sterling Area territory, ( 5) insurance claims directly related to such per- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution mitted trade, (6) pensions and widows' annuities where associated with the deceased husband's employment, and (7) charges and fees relating to patents, designs, and trademarks registered in Rho- desia, Zambia, or Malawi. Permitted debits include transfers to the Rho- desian Special Account in respect of pensions and widows' annuities; payments for living expenses in the United Kingdom of persons resident in Rho- desia and their families; the cost of approved foreign exchange facilities for travel by persons resident in Rhodesia; authorized purchases of sterling securities to be held for the account holder; purchases in the United Kingdom of Treasury bills to be held for the account holder; payments to residents of the Sterling Area for ( 1) interest on and repayment of outstanding personal loans, advances, and overdrafts granted before November 11, 1965, (2) patents, designs, trademarks, and royalties, ( 3) bank and legal charges, and (4) subscriptions to newspapers and other periodicals; and payments to U.K. residents for (a) expenses arising out of property in the United Kingdom owned on or before Novem- ber 11, 1965, (b) taxes, (c) educational fees and incidental expenses, (d) insurance premiums and capital and annuity payments on personal policies taken out on or before November 11, 1965, (e) medical fees, and (f) gifts and maintenance not exceeding £,250 for any one payment, to individ- uals and charitable or religious organizations. Transfers between Rhodesian Accounts and from Rhodesian Accounts to External Accounts are not allowed. Suspense Accounts. Unless eligible for credit to Rhodesian Accounts or to the Rhodesian Special Account (see above), payments to persons resident in Rhodesia must be withheld; the funds may be placed on Suspense Accounts and, except with the specific permission of the Bank of England, may only be ( 1) used to meet U.K. tax payments and safe custody charges due on the monies in question, or ( 2) placed on deposit with banks or other financial institutions in the name of the U.K. resident by whom they are held. Per- mission is normally given for residents of Rhodesia to use Suspense Account monies to purchase ster- ling securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom and to purchase U.K. Treasury bills. Permission is only given for them UNITED KINGDOM to purchase Rhodesian securities, however, when the funds for the purchase are derived from the sale proceeds of other Rhodesian securities. The Rhodesian Special Account. This is an account operated by the Rhodesia House staff in London and maintained with the Standard Bank, London. Pensions and associated payments due to beneficiaries in Rhodesia from residents of the Sterling Area, and pensions due from Rhodesia to residents of the United Kingdom and most other parts of the Sterling Area, are normally settled through this account. Corresponding transfers from Rhodesian Accounts in the names of indi- viduals to the Rhodesian Special Account are freely permitted. Permission is not normally given for payments of any other nature to be credited to the Rhodesian Special Account. Subject to spe- cific approval by the Bank of England, any balance on the Special Account may be used to meet the cost of permitted exports to Rhodesia from the Sterling Area and of services provided by residents of the Sterling Area for account of persons resident in Rhodesia. Imports and Import Payments For import licensing purposes, countries out- side the United Kingdom other than Rhodesia 3 are divided into five groups: other Sterling Area countries, the Dollar Area,4 Japan,5 the Eastern Area,6 and all other countries. Imports from countries other than Rhodesia and those in the Eastern Area are admitted under an Open General License without quan t i ta t ive restriction, with the following exceptions: (a) from other Sterling Area countries, 14 commodities or groups of commodities;7 (b) from all other 3 For security reasons, imports from Rhodesia are con- trolled by import licensing; virtually all are prohibited. 4 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colom- bia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. 5 Japan will u l t ima te ly cease to be treated as in a category by itself. For a transitional period, certain items continue to be restricted. 6 The Eastern Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Main- land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, People's Republic of Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 7 Coffee and coffee preparations from all sources require a specific license to ensure compliance with the In te rna t ional Coffee Agreement. 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM countries except the Dollar Area, 4 commodities or groups of commodities, in addition to those covered by (a) above; and (c) from the Dollar Area, 6 commodities or groups of commodities, in addition to those covered by (b) above. Imports from countries in the Eastern Area are admitted under an Open General License without quantita- tive restriction if they appear in a specific list, which covers a range of raw materials, minerals, metals, and some manufactured and semimanu- factured goods. Imports from Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Poland of certain other manufactured goods also are admitted without quantitative restriction under open individual license. All other imports from the Eastern Area require a specific import license. Most articles subject to restriction can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. Some imports are prohibited from all non-Sterling Area sources. These are coal, coke, and solid fuels manufactured from coal or coke, and whole hams, other than hams preserved in airtight containers. Imports of cereals and cereal products are subject to m in imum import prices enforced through variable import levies. Permission to import from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia, whether under Open General License or some other form of license, carries with it an entitlement to purchase non-Sterling Area currency or to credit sterling to an External Account to pay for the import, pro- vided that evidence of customs entry is submitted or evidence that the goods have been dispatched to the United Kingdom or are to be dispatched immediately on receipt of payment. Advance pay- ments for imports are approved by the Bank of England in all cases where the payment is con- sidered genuine and in accordance with the tradi- tions of the trade and the continuance of the practice is considered to be essential. Exchange control forms are not required for payments to residents of the Sterling Area; neither are they required for payments to residents of other coun- tries, unless the payment represents part or final settlement for goods for which the total amount payable exceeds <£ 2,000 and evidence of impor- tation cannot be presented to the bank before making the remittance, or unless non-Sterling Area currency exceeding the equivalent of <£250 is being bought forward. 448 Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. Pay- ments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require exchange control authorization, which (except for payments to residents of Rho- desia)8 is granted freely for all purposes other than travel, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. The completion of an exchange control form is required for payments exceeding <£250 or its equivalent. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for transfers on account of many categories of current invisibles without any limitation, and for other categories up to estab- lished limits. Except for travel, applications for payments in excess of these limits or for purposes for which no delegation of authority has been granted are approved by the Bank of England, provided that no unauthorized capital outflow is involved. Authorized banks may dispatch sterling bank- notes to nonresidents except residents of Rhodesia against payment in sterling from an External Account or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. An allowance of up to <£50 a person a year in non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds may be made available to residents by banks and authorized travel agents for personal travel outside the Sterling Area except to Rho- desia; an additional <£25 may be made available to persons aged 70 or more and to children up to the age of 18 traveling in parties arranged by schools or by youth organizations. For travel, for business or professional reasons including attend- ance at conferences, an allowance of up to <£ 20 a day, for up to two months, may similarly be made available by banks and authorized travel agents. Applications for larger amounts for business or professional travel must be referred to the Bank of England, and each case is considered on its merits. Applications for more than <£50 for private travel within a period of a year must be similarly 8 For security reasons, virtually all current payments to Rhodesia are prohibited, except when these result f rom permitted trade in goods. Transfers of reasonable amoun ts are permitted, however, for charitable, religious, medical, and educational purposes, provided that similar remittances were made prior to November 11, 1965, and to relieve hardship. Small personal gifts are also permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution referred, but are sympathetically considered only for persons suffer ing from a physical disability, full-time students, teachers studying their subject abroad, and persons visiting sick or elderly rela- tives. The above travel allowances are exclusive of the payment of fares for transport form ing an integral part of the main journey, the cost of which is not limited, provided that payment is made in sterling in the United Kingdom; separate pro- visions, however, are in effect for cruises and for payments in respect of yachts and other vessels used for private purposes that have a small fuel- carrying capacity. All travel exchange purchased must be recorded in the traveler's passport, as must the amount of non-Sterling Area expenditure for accommodation, etc., that has been settled in sterling in the United Kingdom; this amount ("the V-form content") is deducted from the appro- priate travel allowance. Any unused travel exchange must be surrendered within one month of issue or upon re turn to the United Kingdom, if later. In addition, resident travelers may take with them up to <£ 15 in U.K. and other Sterling Area banknotes, which may be exchanged or spent abroad only for travel expenditure; but those traveling direct to the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands may take out any amount. Visitors are, in addition, allowed to take out any notes that they brought in with them, other than notes in excess of £ 15 expressed in the currencies of the United Kingdom or the Irish Republic. Special regulations apply to travel to Rhodesia. For approved official and essential business jour- neys the Bank of England will authorize the issue of non-Sterling Area currency at a rate of up to £10 a day with a max imum of £250. Facilities for private travel are authorized only where there are strong compassionate grounds. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are subject to licensing control; all exports to other destinations are free of license, except for a limited number of items, principally strategic in character. Virtually all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for exports to Rhodesia, completion of exchange con- trol forms is waived for exports not exceeding £2,000 f.o.b., other than gifts in kind, for which the upper limit is £ 100 f.o.b. Exporters to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia UNITED KINGDOM must obtain appropriate payment within six months of shipment, unless special permission has been granted to collect at a later date. Receipts in non-Sterling Area currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Permitted exports to Rhodesia must be paid for prior to shipment in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rho- desian pounds or, if specific permission is granted by the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in non-Sterling Area currencies on account of invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Recipients of such currencies may, however, be permitted to retain their exchange in controlled accounts if it is needed for operating purposes. British and other banknotes may be brought into the United Kingdom freely. Capital Residents of the United Kingdom who receive the currency of a country outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesian pounds f rom certain capital account sources (ma in ly the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities and the sale or liquida- tion of direct investments situated outside the Sterling A rea) may, in certain circumstances and with permission, use the exchange (which is regarded as investment currency once permission has been given) for the purchase abroad of mar- ketable foreign currency securities or sell the exchange for sterling to other residents to be used for the same purpose. If permission is not forth- coming, the foreign currency must be offered for sale at the rates ruling in the official market to an authorized bank in the United Kingdom. If permission is granted, however, the equivalent in non-Sterling Area currency of 25 per cent of the proceeds must be sold to an authorized bank for sterling at the official market rate of exchange.9 In certain circumstances, residents of the United Kingdom who are foreign nationals and have obtained exemption from their liabilities under the 9 A s im i lar 25 per cent requ irement no rma l ly applies to transactions by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area; however, for securities owned prior to April 7, 1965, or any other foreign currency securities derived the re f rom by way of "switches," the requirement applies only on ou t r ight sales for sterling or for reinvestment in s t e r l ing securities. 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Exchange Control Act in respect of assets denomi- nated in the currency of the country of their nationality may obtain permission for exempted cash balances and the sale proceeds of exempted securities to be treated as investment currency. Residents of the United Kingdom who receive non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds from the sale to nonresidents of house property outside the Sterling Area except in Rho- desia may, with the permission of the Bank of England, retain the currency as property currency. The currency, which is transferable to other resi- dents, may, subject to individual approval, be used for purchases of house property outside the Sterling Area except in Rhodesia. With respect to outward capital transfers, there is a program of voluntary restraint on direct and portfolio investment in the more developed coun- tries of the Sterling Area (Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, and South A f r ica) and on portfolio investment in countries outside the Sterling Area. The aim for direct investment in these four Sterling Area countries is that for the time being it should be postponed wherever possible or arrangements made to finance it by appropriate borrowing abroad or by using normally retained profits (i.e., the average level retained over a representative period in the recent pa s t ). Firms and individuals wishing to proceed are asked to consult the Bank of England regarding any investment over <£25,000. The Bank will examine their plans to see whether they promise an early, substantial, and continuing benefit to the United Kingdom's bal- ance of payments, the criterion being the same as that applied to direct investments outside the Sterling Area (see be low). Proposals are readily acceptable where this criterion is met or where the money is to be borrowed abroad or provided from local resources, as above. The aim for portfolio investment is that over a period of time there should be no significant increase above the level on May 3, 1966 in total holdings by any one insti- tutional investor of either securities denominated in non-Sterling Area currencies or securities denominated in the currencies of the four Sterling Area countries mentioned. Apart from the program of voluntary restraint, there are no restrictions on capital transfers by residents of the United Kingdom to other Sterling Area countries, except Hong Kong (see section on 450 Exchange Control Territory, above). All capital transfers by residents to countries outside the Sterling Area require approval. For security rea- sons, no capital transfers are allowed to Rhodesia, whether in the form of direct investment or of the purchase of Rhodesian securities, or by any other means. For direct investments outside the Sterling Area, official exchange is not made available.10 Such direct investments may, with authorization, be financed with investment currency or by suit- able long-term borrowing of non-Sterling Area currency. However, before permission will be given for the use of investment currency, direct investments outside the Sterling Area of over <£ 25,000 a year must promise an early, sub- stantial, and continuing benefit to the U.K. balance of payments; this benefit must be in the form of additional export earnings and/or profit remit- tances to the United Kingdom such as will at least equal the cost of the original capital outlay within two to three years and will continue thereafter. Other approved direct investments in excess of £25,000 must be financed by long-term borrow- ing (i.e., for at least five years) in non-Sterling Area currencies, including nonresident-owned deposits with U.K. banks. The purchase of foreign currency securities outside the Sterling Area must also be financed with investment currency or, in some cases, by long-term borrowing outside the Sterling Area; purchases of marketable foreign currency secu- rities with investment currency are freely permitted by virtue of certain general permissions granted to banks, stockbrokers, and other authorized depositories, but net purchases by institutional investors are governed by the voluntary restraint program. The purchase by U.K. residents of a house or apartment for personal use in countries outside the Sterling Area requires specific approval and must be made either from another U.K. resi- dent for sterling or from a nonresident with property currency; payment for attendant expenses and improvements, but not maintenance, must also be made with property currency. Approval is normally limited to one property a family, and purchases of property currency are limited to reasonable amounts. 10 Early in 1968, off ic ial exchange was, subject to cer- ta in conditions, again made available for certain direct inves tmen ts related to the promotion of exports f rom the Un i ted Kingdom. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution All proceeds from the realization, redemption, or ma tur i ty of sterling capital assets (including direct investments) owned by nonresidents other than residents of Rhodesia are remittable at the official rate of exchange. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries are authorized freely in respect of inheritances due from the estates of deceased resi- dents; so also are capital payments under life and other insurance policies taken up by non- residents with resident insurance companies. Residents of the United Kingdom who leave with the intention of residing for at least three years in a country outside the Sterling Area are, on their departure from the United Kingdom, regarded for exchange control purposes as non- residents, and, with the following exceptions, their assets are treated accordingly. Repatriates (non- Sterling Area nationals, other than Rhodesians, who having been resident in the United Kingdom re turn to take up residence in their country of nationality) may normally transfer all their ster- ling assets abroad at the official rate of exchange. Other residents leaving to take up residence in countries outside the Sterling Area except Rho- desia are granted a settling-in allowance of up to .£5,000 in foreign exchange for a family un i t; the declared assets in excess of .£5,000 are restricted for a four-year period from the date of the departing person's redesignation as a non- resident. During that period the funds may be disposed of for non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds through the investment currency market, or may be invested in any ster- ling securities, the income therefrom being freely remittable through the official exchange market. After the four-year period any remaining assets are transferable in accordance with the rules then applicable to the assets of a nonresident. The participation of foreign capital as a direct investment in the United Kingdom is subject to individual authorization, which is normally granted, provided that adequate capital for the project is supplied in an approved manner of pay- ment (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) or by the import of goods and services; the non-Sterling Area currency received must be sur- rendered at rates ruling in the official market. Where an investment is being made (including takeovers or participation in an existing business), the authorities must be satisfied that an acceptable UNITED KINGDOM proportion of the capital subscription will be made by foreign remittance. Foreign-owned firms and foreign individuals must obtain Treasury permission in order to raise capital in the United Kingdom, and U.K. resident subsidiaries of foreign companies are required to obtain consent from the Treasury before borrow- ing in the United Kingdom or before issuing shares or other securities to nonresidents. Such permis- sion is normally given for borrowing for the purpose of financing the company's day-to-day business, but is not normally given for any expan- sion of manu fac tu r ing capacity except for compa- nies whose activities are regarded as bringing spe- cial advantages to the U.K. economy. Transactions in securities of all types may be carried out freely between residents of the United Kingdom, except that transactions in Rhodesian securities may only be effected on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom. Residents are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to sell foreign currency securities outside the Sterling Area, and, af ter 25 per cent of the proceeds has been sold to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange, to reinvest the balance of the exchange proceeds (investment currency) in other marketable foreign currency securities, or to sell the exchange to other residents for such investments or for approved direct investments outside the Sterling Area which qualify for invest- ment currency. When foreign currency securities are sold on a U.K. stock exchange for sterling, an amount of investment currency in the form of non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) equivalent to 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be purchased in the investment cur- rency market for resale to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange. Professional dealers mak ing a "book" and certain other opera- tors may on application be exempt from the 25 per cent requirement for certain of their operations.11 Investment currency held for a continuous period of six months ceases to be investment currency unless an amount of investment currency in the form of non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) equivalent to 25 per cent of the amount held is, at the end of each six-month period, sold to an authorized bank at the official 11 Ma in ly inves tment t rus ts and members of the insur- ance marke t. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM market rate of exchange.12 U.K. investment trusts are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to bor- row non-Sterling Area currency outside the Ster- ling Area at long term, for the purpose of making portfolio investments in foreign currency securities. U.K. jobbers and other security dealers may, with permission, arrange day-to-day borrowing of non- Sterling Area currency, whether from U.K. banks or from nonresidents, to finance a "book" in for- eign currency securities, but not to finance holdings of such securities as investments. Residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are not prevented by the U.K. regulations from buy- ing and selling sterling securities in the United Kingdom; they may also buy and sell Rhodesian securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom, but they must obtain the per- mission of the U.K. authorities to buy and sell other securities in the United Kingdom. Permission is required for all transfers of securi- ties in the United Kingdom in which a nonresident is involved as either transferor or transferee, but most transfers are covered by a general authority. In most cases, U.K. companies do not require prior authorization to issue sterling bearer securities. Nonresidents except Rhodesian residents may buy any securities (including officially quoted for- eign currency securities) on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom against pay- ment from an External Account. Securities so purchased may be exported from the United King- dom. Foreign currency securities may be sold by nonresidents on a stock exchange in the United Kingdom for settlement only in non-Sterling Area currency. In no circumstances may settlement be in sterling. Nonresidents must obtain permission to buy securities in the United Kingdom other than on a stock exchange, whether or not the securities are quoted on a stock exchange. Nonresidents other than Rhodesian residents may sell sterling securities in the United Kingdom for External Account sterling and freely transfer the proceeds abroad at official market rates. All transactions 12 Inves tment currency may be invested temporarily in short-term government bonds (w i th up to six months to run before final m a t u r i t y) or in six-month Treasury bills or other forms of recognized short-term money market paper ( inc lud ing Certificates of Deposit) w i thout incu r- r ing the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on resale of the paper. 452 in securities by or on behalf of residents of Rho- desia require the specific approval of the Bank of England. Warrants issued by registrars, company secre- taries, and paying agents in respect of capital pay- ments on matured securities registered in the names of nonresidents other than Rhodesian resi- dents may be dispatched freely to addressees out- side the Sterling Area, and these warrants may be paid by crediting sterling to an External Account. Gold Residents of the United Kingdom may not buy, hold, or sell gold bullion or gold coin without permission. General exemption from these restric- tions has been given in respect of gold coins minted in or before 1837. In addition, no resident is allowed to hold more than four gold coins minted after 1837, and which were in his posses- sion on April 26, 1966, without special exchange control permission; sales of post-1837 gold coins also require permission unless made at the current London market price through an authorized dealer in gold or a trader in coin. With these exceptions, residents of the United Kingdom other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, whether at home or abroad, unless they are spe- cifically or generally permitted to do so; permis- sion is granted restrictively and is generally limited to established genuine domestic requirements for industrial and professional purposes. The manu- facture of medals, medallions (including imitation coins), tablets, and other pieces in pictorial relief or bearing inscriptions is not permitted except for export and for academic and sporting awards, and for pieces weighing less than 5 pennyweights or of a value not more than <£2. The import by any resident of the United Kingdom of gold bullion and gold coins minted over 100 years ago is on Open General License. The import of gold coins minted less than 100 years ago is restricted to authorized dealers in gold holding the necessary license from the Board of Trade. The export of gold bullion and all gold coins requires prior exchange control approval. Authority has been given to authorized dealers in gold to issue licenses in respect of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exports of gold bullion and coin purchased by any non-Sterling Area resident in the London gold market against payment in External Account ster- ling or non-Sterling Area currency. A license is required from the Board of Trade for the export of gold jewelry, etc., containing diamonds. The export of gold in manufac tured form over 100 years old and valued at £2,000 and over also requires a Board of Trade license. Imports of gold jewelry and of articles contain- ing a minor quan t i ty of gold, such as watches, require a license from the Board of Trade and are liberalized from all sources except the Eastern Area (see footnote 6) and Rhodesia, most of these articles being covered by open general licenses; the import of medals, medallions, and plaques, however, is prohibited from all sources when exceeding 5 pennyweights in weight or £2 in value. The import of sem imanufac tured gold from the Eastern Area requires Board of Trade approval. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded (1) between any non- residents of the Sterling Area, and (2) between residents of the Sterling Area who are them- selves, or are acting on behalf of, the monetary authorities of Sterling Area countries, and any nonresidents of the Sterling Area. All settlements must be made in External Account sterling or in U.S. dollars.13 Changes during 1967 January 1. Additional imports from Poland were freely admitted under open individual license. January 1. The rema in ing licensing controls over imports of watches and parts were removed for all sources except the Eastern Area and Rhodesia. January 1. Restrictions on imports from Japan were eased fu r ther and specified textiles ceased to be subject to Japanese voluntary control arrange- ments. January 2. Applications by authorized banks to issue certificates of deposit expressed in a non- Sterling Area currency could be submitted to the 13 On Ma rch 14, 1968, operations were suspended. On Ma rch 17, it was announced th at the ma rket would be reopened on April 1, 1968. UNITED KINGDOM Bank of England, which would normally approve such issues when denominated in U.S. dollars and having a maturity of not more than five years. Pur- chases of such certificates by residents of the United Kingdom could be made only with invest- ment currency. January 26. Additional restrictions were placed on the uses which Rhodesian residents could make of sterling accounts. The main changes were that, in general, Rhodesian Accounts could no longer be drawn upon for the payment of fares for travel by Rhodesian residents within the Sterling Area, to pay wages, salaries, and directors' fees of Rho- desian companies operating in the Sterling Area, or to repay sterling loans of a commercial nature. Most other permitted debits to Rhodesian Accounts, for example, in respect of living expenses, education, and medical fees, which had hitherto been permitted for payment to any coun- try in the Sterling Area, could now be made only for payment to U.K. residents. Transfers could no longer be made from one Rhodesian Account to another, or from one Rhodesian Blocked Ster- ling Account to another. All dealings in securities by or on behalf of Rhodesian residents were made subject to specific permission and existing per- missions were withdrawn. January 26. The Control of Borrowing Order, 1958 was amended to the effect that overseas companies or governments raising capital in the United Kingdom against securities denominated in a currency other than sterling no longer required Treasury consent. Such consent was previously required for, inter alia, rights issues. Henceforth, Treasury consent would only be required for issues denominated in sterling, for the sale of units in a foreign unit trust, and for loans where no securi- ties are issued. All applications for consent under the Order had to be addressed in the first instance to the Bank of England. The exchange control regulations and the voluntary restraint program were not affected. February 6. Gold could again be sold domes- tically for the manu fac tu re of medals, medallions (including imitation co in), tablets, and other pieces in pictorial relief or bearing inscriptions, provided that these articles did not weigh more than 5 pennyweights and were of a value not exceeding £2. Such gold could also be imported again w i thout an individual import license. 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM February 11. As a result of a decision by the International Coffee Council, limited restrictions were applied to imports of nonquota coffee intended for a defined list of "new markets." February 21. New regulations were announced covering payments in respect of yachts and other vessels used for private purposes by residents of the United Kingdom. With effect from April 1, 1967, while settlements for fuel and lubricants lifted outside the Sterling Area could continue to be made in sterling in the United Kingdom, all other disbursements had normally to be made from the basic travel allowance of the yachtsmen and their passengers. March 21. The global import quota for butter for the 12 months ending March 31, 1968 was established at a level higher than that of the initial quota for the previous 12-month period. April 12. The security sterling market and the official exchange market were unified by the abolishment of security sterling (blocked or switch sterling). Blocked Accounts were abolished and blocking of funds under Section 32 of the Exchange Control Act was discontinued. All funds held on Blocked Accounts or previously eligible for credit only to Blocked Accounts, including the sale proceeds of sterling securities owned by non- residents (other than residents of Rhodesia), became eligible for credit to External Accounts; such funds held for or due to residents of Rhodesia were to be held in suspense. All purchases and sales of sterling securities by nonresidents had henceforth to be settled in External Account ster- ling or in non-Sterling Area currencies at official market rates of exchange. Restrictions under Sec- tion 40 of the Exchange Control Act were removed from the sterling assets of emigrants granted emigration treatment under the rules in force before July 21, 1966 and of repatriates (non- Sterling Area nationals returning for permanent residence in the country of their na t iona l i ty) already granted repatriation facilities. The restric- tions imposed on Ju ly 21, 1966 on the transfer of assets by persons emigrating on or af ter that date would continue to apply to those and fu tu re emi- grants, but the assets of fu tu re repatriates would not normally be subject to restriction and could therefore be transferred in fu ll at the official rate of exchange. 454 April 12. All non-Sterling Area currencies became specified currencies. As a result, ( 1) resi- dents of the United Kingdom were required to o f fer all non-Sterling Area currencies for sale to an authorized dealer (who was not, however, required to purchase those currencies for which there was no market in the United K ingdom ); ( 2) all foreign currency securities became pre- scribed securities, i.e., securities to which Section 17 of the Exchange Control Act was applicable; and (3) payment for exports to countries outside the Sterling Area could be received in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Previously, exchange receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area were required to be in sterling f rom an External Account, in a specified currency, or in any other non-Sterling Area cur- rency freely exchangeable for sterling; any speci- fied currency received had to be offered for sale to an authorized bank. The specified currencies were Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. April 12. Forward cover could be given for any current payment due within six months. April 12. The programs of voluntary restraint on overseas investment were extended for a year, the requirements being unchanged. April 12. The restrictions on the disposal of assets of residents of Hong Kong were tightened. April 12. Authorized dealers in gold could permit any resident of the United Kingdom who was obliged to offer gold coins minted af ter 1837 for sale to an authorized dealer in gold to o f fer such coin instead not only to a coin dealer specifi- cally authorized by the Bank of England but also through an auctioneer similarly authorized. April 26. Additional imports from Czechoslo- vakia were freely admitted under open individual licenses. April 28. All forms of pig meat other than whole hams not in airtight containers could be imported f rom the Dollar Area without individual licenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May 23. Changes, both by removal and impo- sition of controls, were effected in export licensing of a range of goods subject to control for security reasons. Certain licensing exemptions relating to trade samples, diamonds, and animals ceased to apply to exports to Rhodesia. July 6. Special allotments were made available for travel by yacht owners unable to settle in sterling in the United Kingdom for fuel lifted out- side the Sterling Area because of the small fuel- carrying capacity of their boats. July 27. The import quota for ju te goods from countries other than India, Pakistan, the Irish Republic, and the Eastern Area was raised. July 28. The Bank of England withdrew the authority for banks to approve reinsurance pay- ments made by insurers other than members of the British Insurance Association and brokers other than Lloyd's Brokers. August 8. Imports of ferrochromium originat- ing in Rhodesia but processed or manufac tured outside Rhodesia required an individual license. August 9. Under an order consolidating exemp- tions from control over payments in the United Kingdom, exemptions in respect of bank accounts of nonresidents were limited to payments made out of such accounts with authorized banks; such banks were, however, permitted to make cash pay- ments to any nonresident out of money standing with them to the credit of that nonresident or of any other nonresident (except a Rhodesian). August 9. The authority given to authorized banks to ( 1) credit Rhodesian Accounts with pay- ments from Temporary Resident Accounts and (2) make payments from Temporary Resident Accounts for living expenses in the Sterling Area other than the United Kingdom was withdrawn. August 14. The import of aircraft from the Dollar Area no longer required an individual license. September 29. The criteria for determining the country of residence of individuals for exchange control purposes were amended. In fu tu re, persons moving to another country would be treated on departure as resident in the new country, if they intended to reside there for at least three years. Previously, the change was made only if the person intended to take up permanent residence in the UNITED KINGDOM country concerned. Cases of doubt or d i f f icu l ty would still be referred to the Bank of England for individual consideration. September 29. The regulations governing foreign currency accounts held in the United Kingdom in the names of nonresidents of the Sterling Area were revised. October 6. It was announced that from Janua ry 1, 1968 imports of toys and pottery from Japan were to be free of import licenses; pottery would, however, be subject to Japanese voluntary export control. November 1. The basic allowance for travel outside the Sterling Area except to Rhodesia was continued at the equivalent of £50 for the year ending October 31, 1968. There were, however, some minor relaxations in respect of special allot- ments. Authorized banks were permitted to pro- vide an additional <£25 to applicants aged 70 or more and to children up to the age of 18 traveling in parties arranged by schools or you th organizations. Also, the Bank of England was prepared to consider applications for additional allowances by persons suffer ing from a physical disability, full-time students, teachers studying their subject abroad, and persons visiting sick or elderly relatives. While existing arrangements for business journeys in general continued, additional allowances were to be given in appropriate cases for necessary expenditure abroad, especially in connection with export business. Persons attend- ing conferences directly connected with business or professional activities would, in most cases, be allowed up to <£20 a day as for business journeys; for other conferences not connected with business or professional activities, up to .£10 a day would be allowed in appropriate cases. The special allowance of <£25 for a car hired abroad, pre- viously available if the car were hired for a period of at least five days, would henceforth only be available if the car were hired for at least seven days. For expenditure incurred on board foreign ships and aircraft, residents (including children) making direct voyages on non-Sterling Area ships, or taking cruises on such ships which had secured exemption from the V-form requirement, would in f u t u re be able to buy vouchers for sterling in advance from the shipping companies to meet on-board expenditure without deduction f rom any travel allowance. Vouchers would be limited to 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM £4 in value or 20 per cent of the fare, whichever was the greater, up to a maximum of <£50. Resi- dents traveling on non-Sterling Area airlines would be able to buy vouchers up to the limit of £4 for any one flight. November 3. A number of dependent territories and states in special treaty relations with the United Kingdom ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the GATT in respect of Japan. November 6. Imports of "near-butters" (butter oil, butter fat, resolidified butter, dehydrated or anhydrous butter) were deliberalized; the existing open individual licenses were revoked. November 10. The Capital Issues Committee, previously controlling certain capital issues and other borrowing in the United Kingdom by resi- dents of other countries, was dissolved. No policy changes with respect to outflows of capital from the United Kingdom were involved. November 18. The par value was changed from <£ 1 = US$2.80 to <£ 1 = US$2.40. November 18. It was announced that the export rebate applicable mainly to various broad cate- gories of industrial commodities, irrespective of their destination, would be abolished on March 31, 1968. November 20. Certain concessions previously granted to residents of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden in respect of credit facilities and other forms of borrowing in London were formally withdrawn. December 4. Imports of meat, except canned meat and bacon, were temporarily banned for health reasons from all sources other than nine specified countries. December 13. The sale to residents of unworked gold for use in sculptures was prohibited. 456 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 1 Exchange Rate System The par value of the United States Dollar is 15%! grains of gold %0 fine, which is equivalent to US$35 per fine ounce, at which price (ex- clusive of handling charges and expenses) the Treasury buys gold from both official and certain nonofficial sources and sells it abroad only to gov- ernments, central banks, and, under certain cir- cumstances, international institutions, for the settlement of international balances and other legitimate monetary purposes; domestic sales are made only for industrial, professional, and artistic use.2 There are no restrictions on foreign pay- ments, except those imposed for security reasons on transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and Nor th Viet-Nam, and those imposed pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 232 on any t rans fer of funds to Rhodesia for the purposes of activities or dealings in respect of specified com- modities originating in Rhodesia or products made the re f rom in Rhodesia or elsewhere. The United States notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Treasury Department deals with license applications for transactions involving the authori- ties or nationals of Mainland China, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, as specified under the For- eign Assets Control Regulations; it is also in charge of licensing transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Cuba, under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations. The Bureau of Customs of the Treasury Department administers import quo- tas for certain commodities, including certain wheat and wheat products. Import quotas on specified dairy products are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. The import quotas on sugar are allotted among eligible exporting countries in accordance with a s ta tu tory formu la administered 1 This survey presents the situation on December 31, 1967. Certain developments th at took place ear ly in 1968 are summar ized in a note at the end of this survey. 2 Purchases and sales of gold in transac t ions w i th nono f f ic ial en t i t ies were d iscon t inued March 17, 1968. by the Department of Agriculture and are pro- rated among eligible importers under regulations administered by that Department. Licenses for imports of crude petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts are issued by the Department of the Interior. For items subject to export control (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low), the Department of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. Imports and Import Payments The import is prohibited of certain products originating in Rhodesia and exported therefrom af ter December 16, 1966, and of products made therefrom in Rhodesia or elsewhere. Imports of merchandise known or believed to be of Mainland Chinese, Cuban, North Korean, or North Vietnam- ese origin, Chinese-type merchandise from other areas, as well as all goods containing Cuban com- ponents, and all goods imported from or through Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, or North Viet-Nam are subject to license. Import quotas are in effect, pursuant to Sec- tion 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, for cotton, certain cotton waste, and certain semiprocessed cotton products, wheat and wheat products, specified dairy products, and peanuts. With the exception of the import quotas for peanuts, certain cotton and cotton products, and a specified portion of the quota for Cheddar cheese, the quotas above and those for sugar (pur- suant to special legislation) are on a country-of- production basis. Under the Philippines Trade Agreement Revision Act of 1955, import duties applicable to the Philippines are 40 per cent of the general most-favored-nation rate on all products; imports of Philippine cordage, along with sugar, are subject to absolute quotas; for Philippine coconut oil and buttons, the preferential tar iff rate applies only to a specific quantity of imports; there are duty-free quotas for Philippine cigars and tobacco, while imports over these quotas are sub- ject to the preferential tar iff rate. The United States is a par ty to the Long-Term Cotton Textiles Arrangement, which authorizes importing coun- tries to request exporting countries to limit or restrain exports of cotton textiles under specified conditions. The United States has concluded com- 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES prehensive bilateral agreements to limit cotton textile imports f rom certain major supplying coun- tries and has unilaterally imposed restraints on specific cotton textile products from certain other countries. Global quotas are imposed on imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products, except those imported overland (i.e., by pipeline, motor carrier, or r a i l ), which are included within the permitted import level but are not subject to allocation and licensing requirements. In practice imports of residual fuel oil are virtually unre- stricted into 17 states bordering the East Coast but are controlled for the rest of the country. No tw i ths tand ing the oil import program, the Secretary of the Interior has discretionary author- ity to allow increased imports of finished asphalt. The transfer of funds to Rhodesia for certain purposes (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) is permitted only under license. Other payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, with certain exceptions which are permitted only under license; these are payments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of Main- land China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet- Nam. Exports and Export Proceeds Munitions can be exported only under license. Exports of certain types of silver are prohibited. Licenses are not granted for exports of arms and ammunition to South Africa. Most exports to Rhodesia require licenses and generally no licenses are issued except for food and human i ta r ian items. Exports (except designated nonstrategic goods) to the U.S.S.R. and the countries of Eastern Europe other than Yugoslavia, and all exports (except phonograph records, publications, and, to Cuba, limited g ift parcels) to Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, are subject to individual validated licenses. Exports of designated strategic materials and equipment to all other countries (except Canada) also require individual validated licenses. The licensing requirements applicable to Poland and Ruman ia are less restrictive than those applicable to other Eastern European countries (except Yugoslavia); w i th in th is group of other Eastern European countries, the requirements are most restrictive for Eastern Germany. Exports of certain com- modities to all destinations have f rom time to 458 time been subject to control for "short supply" reasons; copper is the only commodity currently under "short supply" export control. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that they are prohibited to and from Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam. As regards Rhodesia, they are restricted where they are related to prohibited or licensed transactions. Travelers are not authorized to take out domestic silver coins in amounts having a face value in excess of US$5.00. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by resi- dents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control, except to the extent that the provisions referred to above regarding Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, North Viet-Nam, or Rho- desia are involved. U.S. purchasers of foreign securities are sub- ject to an Interest Equalization Tax of 18.75 per cent for certain acquisitions of stock and 1.31 per cent to 18.75 per cent, depending on ma tur i ty, for certain acquisitions of debt obligations, including bank loans, with a period remaining to ma tu r i ty of one year or more. Major exemptions from the tax are direct investments, investments in less developed countries,3 purchases from other U.S. holders, debt obligations acquired in connection w i th exports, and the purchase of original or new issues when the President of the United States determines that the application of the tax will have such consequences for a foreign country as to imperil or threaten to imperil the stability of the international monetary system, pursuant to which new or original Canadian security issues are exempt, as are —up to an aggregate amount of US$100 million a year —new securities issued or 3 The tax is applicable, however, to Abu Dhabi, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bermuda, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait-Saudi Arab ia Neutral Zone, Libya, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia. The law provides that the following cannot be designated as less developed countries: Australia, Aus tr ia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Ger- m any, Hong Kong, I ta ly, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxem- bourg, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. The only European coun tr ies at present designated as less developed countries are F in land and Greece. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution guaranteed by the Government of Japan as well as certain new issues by Japanese firms that are not guaranteed by that Government. Also exempt are loans with maturities of more than one year, whether denominated in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies, that are made by foreign branches of U.S. banks to foreign borrowers. A voluntary foreign credit restraint program has resulted in the establishment of "guidelines" for banks and nonbank financial institutions in respect of their foreign assets, and for nonfinancial businesses in respect of selected major transactions with non- residents. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell domestic and foreign gold coins situated in the United States and minted before 1933. Gold coins minted after this date may be held if they have been determined to be of recognized special value to collectors. Licenses are required to import any gold coins and generally are available only for gold coins of exceptional numismatic value. Gold bullion may not be held in the United States except by monetary authorities and licensed industrial, pro- fessional, and artistic users. The holding of gold abroad by U.S. nationals is also prohibited except under license for industrial, professional, or artis- tic use. Licensing authority is vested in the Secre- tary of the Treasury. Producers of gold may sell their output to the Treasury at US$35 per fine ounce or to other licensed industrial users. The Treasury sells unworked gold at the same price; such domestic sales are made only to licensed industrial, professional, or artistic users.4 Foreign sales are only made to governments, central banks, and international institutions. Gold may be freely imported by licensed users within the limitations of their authorized inventory holding. A license is required for the export of gold except gold recovered from na tural deposits in the United States, which may be exported without license. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as watches, are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction. Imports and exports of gold coins and gold bullion are free of customs duties and other fiscal charges. Domestic sales of jewelry, inc lud ing gold jewe lry, "E f f e c t i ve March 18, 1968 all Treasury purchases and sales of gold in the p r iva te ma rket were t e rm in a t ed. UNITED STATES are subject to excise duty at the rate of 15 per cent, while domestic sales of gold in any other form, including rare gold coins, are free of fiscal charges. Changes during 1967 ' January 5. An Executive Order signed by the President of the United States implemented the UN Security Council Resolution of December 16, 1966, imposing selective mandatory economic sanctions on Rhodesia. The order prohibited the importation of the following commodities originat- ing in Rhodesia and exported therefrom after December 16, 1966 (as well as products made therefrom in Rhodesia or elsewhere): asbestos, iron ore, chrome, pig iron, sugar, tobacco, copper, meat and meat products, and hides, skins, and leather. Restrictions were imposed on any trans- fer of funds to Rhodesia for the purposes of activi- ties or dealings in respect of such commodities. Exports to Rhodesia of arms and ammunition, air- craf t, motor vehicles, petroleum and petroleum products, and equipment for the manufac ture, assembly, or maintenance of aircraft or motor vehicles were prohibited, as were exports of any goods that promote or are calculated to promote the export from Rhodesia of the sanctioned goods of Rhodesian origin. January 26. The Export-Import Bank of Wash- ington extended its credit guarantees and insur- ance programs to cover sales of U.S. goods and services to Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Ruman ia, provided that transactions were substantial. January 26. The President requested authori- zation to adjust the rates of the Interest Equali- zation Tax as balance of payments and monetary conditions warranted, so that the effective impact on interest costs could be varied between zero and 2 per cent. The Bill submitted to Congress pro- vided that the rate of tax on foreign stocks would be raised from 15 to 30 per cent, effective Janu- ary 26, 1967, and that the tax on debt obligations, such as bonds and bank loans would be raised to a range of 2.10-30 per cent, depending on matur- ity, from the then current range of 1.05-15 per cent. The validity of the Interest Equalization Tax was to be extended from July 31, 1967 through July 31, 1969. 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES January 27. The program that controls (but does not significantly l im i t) East Coast imports of residual fuel oil was continued for another year; the issue of licenses was made month by month on the basis of actual sales and deliveries in the preceding month. February 1. Mandatory safety standards were announced for all automobiles, including imports, manufactured on or after January 1, 1968. February 12. Private Japanese borrowers were permitted to issue bonds in the U.S. market within the $100 million exemption from the Interest Equalization Tax previously available only for issues sold or guaranteed by the Government of Japan. February 21. Executive Order No. 11328 waived the Interest Equalization Tax on U.S. dollar loans with maturities of one year or more made to foreign borrowers by overseas branches of U.S. banks. The Order, in effect, extended to such loans the exemption that had always applied to foreign currency loans made by the foreign branches of U.S. banks. March 15. Regulation M of the Federal Reserve Board was revised to permit national banks hav- ing combined capital and surplus of US$ 1 million or more to purchase direct the stock of foreign banks and to make loans to affiliated banks abroad. Such transactions had formerly been pro- hibited except through the intermediary of an "Edge Act" corporation. April 12. The Secretary of the Interior was given discretionary authority to allow increased imports of finished asphalt under the oil import program. May 11. The list of products which could be shipped to Eastern Europe, Hong Kong, and Macao without validated export licenses was extended to include certain specified types of industrial, construction, and electronic machinery and equipment, as well as certain agricultural commodities. May 18. The Treasury ceased its sales of silver to buyers other than bona fide domestic industrial users. The melting, treatment, and export of domestic silver coins were prohibited. May 29. Export licensing requirements were eased for 38 more categories of nonstrategic prod- 460 ucts for shipment to Eastern Europe. The com- modities affected included many dairy products, cereals, cereal flours, grain starches and prepara- tions of flour, starch or malt, tobacco, raw and carded cotton, cotton waste, some fertilizers, oils of linseed or coconut, miscellaneous organic chemicals, passenger automobiles, and certain automotive equipment. Items freed from vali- dated license requirements for export to Eastern Germany included sugar, cereals, neoprene, mis- cellaneous organic chemicals, fertilizers, and some automotive equipment. June 10. Exports of certain nickel-bearing scrap material and unwrought nickel were sus- pended. On July 10 such exports were resumed but were made subject to tighter licensing proce- dures. Shipments of pure nickel were not restricted. June 20. Short-supply export controls in effect for copper and related products were continued on a short-term basis. July 14. The Treasury stopped selling silver at the fixed price of $1.2929 per troy ounce. It announced that sales would take place at market prices on the basis of competitive sealed bids and at a rate of 2 million ounces a week; purchases could only be made for licensed domestic indus- trial use. July 17. The rules for establishing exemp- tion from the Interest Equalization Tax for prior U.S. ownership were tightened so as to counteract evasion, pending congressional approval (which was subsequently obtained through the enactment of Public Law 90-59, see July 31, below). A "validation certificate," "Interest Equalization Tax clean confirmation," or other proof was required instead of a mere certificate of "prior American ownership." Dealers were instructed to record transactions in domestic and foreign securities separately. In addition to this segregation of foreign securities, detailed bookkeeping proce- dures were prescribed. July 27. To prevent imports from materially interfering with U.S. price support programs for milk and butterfat, quota restrictions were imposed on additional dairy products. These in- cluded frozen and fluid milk and cream, American- type cheeses other than Cheddar, and bu t terfat sugar mixtures. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 31. The Interest Equalization Tax Exten- sion Act of 1967 (Public Law 90-59) was enacted. It extended the validity of the tax from July 31, 1967 to July 31, 1969. The President was given discretionary power to vary the effective rate of the tax within a range corresponding to interest-rate equivalents from zero to approxi- mately iy2 per cent per annum on the borrowed amount (or the equivalent on equity securities). The rate of tax on the acquisition of debt obli- gations was maintained in the range from 1.OS- IS per cent, and that on the acquisition of stock at 15 per cent, but it was provided that the Presi- dent could by Executive Order increase or decrease such rates of tax whenever he determines that these rates of tax are lower or higher than those necessary to limit the total acquisitions by U.S. persons of stock of foreign issuers and debt obligations of foreign obligors within a range con- sistent with the balance of payments objectives of the Un i ted States. However, the Act provided for max imum rates as follows: 22.5 per cent on the acquisition of stock, and a range of 1.58-22.5 per cent on that of debt obligations. (These max imum rates would in any case apply to acquisitions of stock and debt obligations af ter January 25, 1967 but before the thirtieth day af ter July 31, 1967; new rates went into effect on August 30, 1967.) August 4. Licensing requirements for exports of some nonferrous metal products were extended to all countries except Canada. August 28. The President by Executive Order No. 11368 set the rate of Interest Equalization Tax for acquisitions of stocks at 18.75 per cent of the actual value of the stock and set the range of rates for acquisitions of debt obligations with at least one year remaining to ma tur i ty at 1.31-18.75 per cent of the actual value of the debt obligation, i.e., at a level equivalent to the addition (at an annual ra te) of approximately 1.25 per cent to foreigners' borrowing costs, against 1 per cent previously. The new rates applied to acquisitions made on or after August 30, 1967. The Order also (by modifying Executive Order No. 11211 of April 2, 1965) provided, with respect to acquisitions made after November 1, 1967, for certain changes in the existing $100 mil- lion annual exclusion applicable to original or new issues of certain Japanese debt obligations. These resulted in the extension of eligibility for exemp- UNITED STATES tion to certain new issues by Japanese firms that were not guaranteed by the Japanese Government. Furthermore, certain Japanese issues of converti- ble bonds became eligible for exemption. September 4. The Export-Import Bank of Washington eased its rediscount policy by increas- ing the range of eligible obligations, enlarging per- missible levels, and lowering the interest rate. September 14. The Federal Maritime Commis- sion ordered the dissolution of one of the shipping "conferences" operating under the U.S. Shipping Act of 1916. The order was subsequently appealed in the U.S. Court of Appeals. September 15. Licensing requirements for exports of certain machine tools and materials used in a ircraft and missile production were extended to fr iend ly nations except Canada. October 4. The ban on exports of copper ores, copper concentrates, and unrefined copper was eased temporarily to permit small U.S. mining companies to make use of foreign refineries while domestic plants were strikebound. October 23. Wheat exporters were permitted to enter into contracts for subsidies without hav- ing concluded firm sales agreements. November 16. The voluntary balance of pay- ments guidelines for 1968 were issued for financial institutions and for nonfinancial businesses in respect of direct investment abroad. The general approach used was the same as that originally adopted in February 1965, although the guide- lines were considerably tightened. The bank pro- gram supervised by the Federal Reserve System again specified a ceiling on bank loans to foreigners equal to 109 per cent of foreign assets outstand- ing at the end of 1964, but a new provision allowed a bank with relatively small foreign assets at the base date to choose to adopt for 1968 a ceiling equal to 2 per cent of its total assets on December 31, 1966. Any increase in authorized credit extension resulting from this choice of ceil- ing was to be used only for financing U.S. exports or credits to developing countries. The use of the leeway remaining to the banks within the con- tinued ceiling was apportioned quarter by quarter for 1968, and the permitted effective rate of foreign credit expansion was to be about one third lower in 1968 than in 1967. For nonbank financial institu- tions the Federal Reserve program announced for 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 1968 provided a new ceiling on covered foreign credit expansion equivalent to 109 per cent of the amount outstanding at September 30, 1966. The ceiling under the Department of Commerce pro- gram for direct investment abroad by nonfinancial corporations limited total net annual investments in specified countries for 1967-68 to the average annual level carried out in the base period 1962- 64, a reduction from annual limits of 135 per cent set in 1965 for 1965-66 and 120 per cent set in 1966 for 1966-67. took NOTE. —The following developments place early in 1968: January 1. The President announced a com- prehensive balance of payments program. He invoked his authority under the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, as amended by the banking laws, to establish a mandatory program to restrain direct investment abroad, requested and authorized the Federal Reserve Board to tighten its program restraining foreign lending by banks and other financial institutions, and gave the Federal Reserve Board stand-by authority to invoke mandatory controls should these become desirable or neces- sary. The President also asked U.S. citizens to defer for the next two years all nonessential travel outside the Western Hemisphere and asked the Secretary of the Treasury to explore with the appropriate congressional committees legislation to help to achieve this objective. He instructed the Secretary of State, the Director of the Budget, and the Secretary of Defense to find ways to econo- mize on government expenditures overseas. Other steps announced, some of which would require legislation, included measures aiming at an increase in U.S. exports and in foreign investment and travel in the United States. An intensive e f fo rt would be made to secure the removal by foreign surplus countries of certain nontariff bar- riers to trade, particularly border taxes. January 1. The mandatory foreign direct invest- ment program was implemented by Executive Order No. 11387 and Commerce Departmental Order 184-A (15 CFR Part 1,000). Three restraints were placed on direct investment: annual limits on capital outflow plus reinvested earnings, manda tory repatriation of a prescribed share of total earnings, and mandatory repatriation and 462 limitation of short-term financial assets held abroad. Under the new program, regional ceilings were established on new foreign direct invest- ment; exempt from these ceilings was investment financed f rom such earnings as were not required to be repatriated, from depreciation, and from borrowing abroad, and any direct investment up to US$100,000 in any one year. The implement- ing regulations resulted in a moratorium on capital flows for direct investment in continental Europe (other than Finland and Greece). All countries of the world were divided into three categories: ( 1) Schedule A countries, i.e., less developed coun- tries as defined for the purposes of the Interest Equalization Tax (see footnote 2 ); (2) Sched- ule B countries, i.e., countries judged to be devel- oped countries dependent on a substantial con- tinuing capital inflow of capital that cannot be adequately met from non-U.S. sources,5 and ( 3) Schedule C countries, i.e., all other countries. Restrictions were imposed on the net annual trans- actions of each "direct investor" (defined as a person within the United States who directly or indirectly owns or acquires 10 per cent or more of the voting power, income, or assets on liquidation of a foreign national) with each category of coun- tries. Separate provisions dealt with transfers of capital (including reinvested earnings), repatria- tion of earnings, and holdings of liquid foreign balances. The years 1965 and 1966 formed the reference base period for transfers of capital. Transfers to Schedule A countries were limited to 110 per cent of the base period average and those to Schedule B countries to 65 per cent, while transfers to Schedule C countries were pro- hibited. Investment in Schedule C countries was limited to reinvestments of current earnings up to 35 per cent of direct investment in the base period, subject to a prior condition that the 1964- 66 average rate of repatriation of earnings must be ma in ta ined. Long-term funds borrowed in any foreign coun try would not be taken into account in calculating transfers of capital. A direct inves- tor could treat his affiliates within any foreign country or scheduled area on a group basis. An affiliated company in a Schedule C or a Schedule B 5 In i t ia l ly defined as Abu Dhabi, Aus t ra l ia, Bahama s, Bah ra in, Be rmuda, Canada, Hong Kong, I ran, Iraq, I re land, J ap an, Kuw a i t, Kuwa i t-Saudi A rab ia Neu t ral Zone, Libya, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arab ia, and Un i ted K ingdom. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution country could transfer capital for direct invest- ment to another affiliate of the same U.S. direct investor in a Schedule A country within the speci- fied ceiling for total direct investments in Sched- ule A countries as a group. Similarly, transfers could be made from a Schedule C to a Schedule B country. Transfers of investment funds in the other direction (from an aff i l ia te in a Schedule A or a Schedule B country to an affiliate in a Schedule C country or from an affiliate in a Sched- ule A country direct to one in a Schedule B coun- t r y) were not permitted. The provisions concerning repatriation of direct investment earnings required each direct investor to repatriate at least once a year the same per- centage of his earnings from affiliated companies as the average percentage repatriated in a three- year base period (1964-66) and fu r ther to repa- triate the excess of his total earnings over the amount he was permitted to reinvest within the authorized ceiling for his total direct investment, even if this involved a larger percentage of earn- ings than was repatriated in the base period. Within the Schedule C group of countries, the maximum reinvestment of current earnings was the smaller of ( 1) an amount equivalent to 35 per cent of the investor's average base period direct investment, and (2) the amount of earnings remaining af ter giving effect to the 1964-66 repa- triation ratio. Repatriation was defined as a transfer to an account denominated in U.S. dollars at a domestic bank, but there were no surrender requirements or other restrictions on the use of these funds. With respect to liquid foreign balances held abroad by direct investors, the total amount of bank deposits and other short-term financial assets in each scheduled category of countries was to be reduced by June 30, 1968 to the average end-of- month amounts held during 1965 and 1966, and to be maintained thereaf ter at or below that level. The controls would be administered by an Office of Foreign Direct Investments in the Department of Commerce. January 1. In the Federal Reserve Board's revised voluntary guidelines for 1968, three types of restriction were placed on the extension of for- eign credits by banks. The ceiling on foreign credits of U.S. banks was reduced from 109 per cent of foreign assets outstanding at the end of 1964 ( the UNITED STATES ceiling announced in November 1967) to 103 per cent of the base level. For banks choosing to adopt the alternative limitation, equivalent to 2 per cent of total assets at the end of 1966, the new ceiling was an amount equal to the 1967 ceiling plus one third of the addition to that ceiling envisioned in the original 1968 guidelines. In addition, the banks were asked not to renew ma tur ing term loans to developed countries of continental Western Europe and to reduce outstanding short-term loans to those countries by 40 per cent during 1968, at the rate of 10 per cent for each quarter. As these reductions in loans to European countries (esti- mated at about US$700 million) took place, the guideline ceilings for individual banks would be reduced correspondingly.6 For the nonbank financial institutions the new program requested a reduction of at least 5 per cent in holdings of covered foreign assets from the level of December 31, 1967. In addition, holding of liquid funds abroad were to be reduced to zero or to the minimum working balances required to conduct foreign business activities. These institutions were fu r ther requested to re f ra in from making any new loans or investments in developed countries of continental Western Europe except to finance U.S. exports. January 21. The U.S. Treasury issued a state- ment that the new balance of payments program was not intended to have the effect of causing abnormal transfers of earnings or withdrawals of capital by U.S. companies having investments in Canada. The Treasury also urged U.S. subsid- iaries in Canada to behave as good corporate citizens of that country. (Early in March 1968 the United States undertook to exempt Canada from all the U.S. balance of payments measures affect- ing capital flows that are administered by the 6 In February 1968 the Federal Reserve Board, by amending its Regulation K relating to "Edge Act" cor- porations, suspended its general consent for the acquisi- tion by those corporations of equity investments abroad. By requiring the Board's specific consent for all such investments, it became possible to implement more fu l ly the policy that banks should refra in f rom placing f u n ds (even ind i rec t ly) in continental Europe for any purpose other th an to provide needed f inanc ing for U.S. exports. In order not to restrict the opportunities for Euro-dollar financing to those banks that already had branches in Europe, the Board in March 1968 decided that the use of bank f u n ds for the es tab l ishment of new branches, even in continental Europe, would not be inconsistent w i th the guidelines, as long as the f u n ds involved were small and, in effec t, constituted current expend i tures ra ther t h an cap i tal outflows. 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES Department of Commerce and the Federal Reserve Board.) February 5. The President proposed to Con- gress certain legislation that would restrain travel abroad. Travel expenditure up to US$7 a day of a person's stay abroad would not be taxed. The next US$8 a day would be taxed at 15 per cent and expenditures above US$15 a day would be taxed at 30 per cent. These taxes would apply only to travel outside the Western Hemisphere and would expire on September 30, 1969. They would be enforced by requiring prior declarations of cash taken out of the country and of estimated expenditures, and an advanced deposit of the amount expected to be due. Final settlement would be required within 60 days of the traveler's return. The only major exemptions from the expenditure tax would be for persons engaged in business or study who were abroad for more than 120 days. Also proposed were a permanent extension of the existing 5 per cent tax on all domestic air transportation also to cover flights to foreign countries and a temporary 5 per cent tax on sea travel outside the Western Hemisphere, to expire on September 30, 1969. Finally, it was proposed that the customs exemption on goods imported by returning travelers be reduced from US$100 to US$10, a flat 25 per cent rate of duty to be charged on all items above the US$10 limit, regardless of the rates applicable to commercial imports of the same goods. 464 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA Exchange System No par value for the currency of Upper Volta has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially ma in ta ined at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Af- rique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting from the relation CFAF 1 = F 0.02, plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange ma rket rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Forward exchange transactions, which are permitted in any currency except that of Rhodesia, and for any period, take place at freely negotiated rates. Domestic transac- tions in the banknotes and coins of Guinea and Ma li - and all dealings in Rhodesian pounds are prohibited; otherwise, there are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings, whether spot or fo rwa rd, by residents or nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. With the exception noted below, there are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements, although certain controls are applied to borrowing abroad, to issues and sales of foreign securities in Upper Volta, and to inward and outward direct investment (see sec- tion on Capital, below). All settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited for noneconomic rea- sons. In practice, settlements with countries out- side the French Franc Area are usually made through correspondent banks in France, either in any of the currencies of those countries —pro- vided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange marke t —or in French francs; settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are usually made in currencies of that Area, in prac- tice mainly in French francs. There is an inopera- t ive paymen ts agreement with Ghana. 1 The CFA f r anc is issued by the Banque Centrale des E ta ts de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and is the com- mon cu r rency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 In respect of Ma l ian bankno tes and coins, these pro- h ib i t ions were subsequently revoked by Decree No. 68- 093 of Apr il 17, 1968. The following is applicable to payments and transactions between Upper Volta and all foreign coun tr ies3 except Rhodesia. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, which may be held in Upper Volta or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in CFA francs or in any foreign currency may be held in Upper Volta by any nonresident. Balances on nonresident accounts may be transferred freely to any type of resident or nonresident account and used for any payment in Upper Volta or abroad, including the purchase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment, including any amount of interest. There are no restrictions on imports or exports of foreign or domestic securities. Imports and exports of gold are controlled; these require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Upper Volta's control measures affec t ing inward and outward direct investment and borrowing abroad do not apply to relations with ( 1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member coun- tries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Sene- gal, and Togo); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Brazzav i l le), Gabon, and the Malagasy Republic), provided that they accord Upper Volta reciprocity in respect of freedom of paymen ts and transfers.4 Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and Commerce super- vises borrowing abroad, the issue, sale, or intro- duction of foreign securities in Upper Volta, inward and ou tward direct investment, and imports and exports of gold. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the postal adm in is tra t ion, any informa t ion necessary to com- 3 Foreign countries are defined as all countries o ther than Upper Volta. 4 Early in 1968, Mali also established an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury and liberalized its exchange control. 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA pile the balance of payments statistics. All banks in Upper Volta are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Bureau in the Directorate of Commerce at the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and are visaed by the customs. Imports and Import Payments 5 Imports f rom Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Most imports from EEC countries are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Most imports f rom other countries are subject to licensing. Imports from countries outside the French Franc Area are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, determined each year by the Directorate of Commerce. Under this program, global quotas are established for imports from EEC countries other than France and for imports from most other countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas fix the limits up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities to licensed traders. For goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importation are issued. Payments for imports f rom all countries other than Rhodesia may be made freely, at any time, and without any formality. Commodity fu tu res may be dealt in freely, in Upper Volta or abroad. Payments for Invisibles With the exception of payments to Rhodesia, which are prohibited, all payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in domestic and foreign banknotes and coins. However, persons normally resident in Upper Volta, when traveling to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union, must declare to the customs authorities at the point of exit the amount of BCEAO bank- notes that they are carrying if this amount exceeds CFAF 150,000. Travelers also may freely take out up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomina- tion or face value. Exports and Export Proceeds G Exports to countries of the French Franc Area may be made freely but for statistical pur- poses require a license f rom the Department of Commerce. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exports to all other countries are permitted freely but they also require a license. Certain commodities can be exported in special circumstances only. Exports are free of exchange controls. The repatriation and surren- der of export proceeds are not required. Export- ers may grant credit for any period and are free to sell forward their anticipated export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Except in relations with Guinea, Mali, and Rhodesia, there are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents. The proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Such proceeds must not be received in or from Rhodesia. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes and coins other than Guinean and Malian banknotes and coins, whose import is prohibited. Travelers may also bring in up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomination or face value. Capital All capital movements between Upper Volta and Rhodesia are prohibited. The situation in respect of other countries is as follows. Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital freely without a license, through banks or any other channel. Foreign and domestic securities of all types may be imported or exported freely, whether through the intermediary of a bank or not, and transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic and foreign real estate (except when forming part of a direct investment) are unrestricted. Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation and (except when form ing part of a direct investment) may be freely disposed of. Certain controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward direct invest- 5 This description does not take into account a revision of the import system that occurred in Ap r il 1968. 6 This description does not take into account a revision of the export system that took place in Apr il 1968. 466 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ment, and over the issuing, offering for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Upper Volta, but these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Upper Volta, the control mea- sures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in Upper Volta,7 and Upper Volta direct investment abroad,8 must be declared to the Minister of Finance when they are being made, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The total or partial liquidation of either type of direct invest- ment also is subject to prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Upper Volta investments abroad or foreign investments in Upper Volta, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each opera- tion. Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, o f fe r ing for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Upper Volta requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Upper Volta Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offer ing for sale, 7 Including those made by companies in Upper Volta that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Volta of foreign companies. 8 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Upper Volta and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Upper Volta. UPPER VOLTA or sale in Upper Volta has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Upper Volta, or by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Volta of juridical persons whose registered office is- abroad, requires prior authorization by the Min- ister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans consti- tuting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Upper Volta and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these per- sons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; ( 4) loans other than those men- tioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be notified to the Minister of Finance within 20 days, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans con- tracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad is not subject to authorization or declaration. Banks in Upper Volta may freely grant overdrafts on nonresident-held accounts for any period. Law No. 25/61/AN of July 1961 and Law No. 14/62/AN of June 1962 provide preferential treatment for foreign investment in Upper Volta. Under the latter law, two preferential categories (A and B) are established, in accordance with which preferential treatment with respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified, approved enterprises for periods of up to 30 years. The benefits under Category B are far more liberal than those under Category A; they are negotiated between the investor and the Government; and the enterprise accorded such benefits must be of special impor- tance to the national economy. Law No. 25/61/AN sets up an assistance fund for new industries. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA Gold Residents are free to hold gold in any form, at home or abroad. They are also free to acquire and dispose of gold in any form in Upper Volta. Imports and exports of gold require prior author- ization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO, (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles con- taining a minor quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles), (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles (other than coins and bars) whose combined weight does not exceed 500 grams, and (4) imports and exports of up to ten gold coins, irrespective of denomina- tion or face value. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1967 January 1. The Exchange Office was abolished. Its functions were transferred to the Exchange Control Department in the Directorate of Com- merce of the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. May 4. Upper Volta signed the Protocol of Association for the establishment of a West African Economic Community. May 11. Decree No. 67-107 prohibited all economic relations with Rhodesia, including all commercial transactions and transfers of funds. July 1. Ordinance No. 67-36 of June 29, 1967 established the principle that financial relations with foreign countries were free. With minor exceptions, all existing legislation contrary to this principle was revoked, notably Law No. 26-61 of July 5, 1961 and Law No. 22-65 of Decem- ber 16, 1965. Previously, current and capital pay- ments to all French Franc Area countries already were unrestricted; they were also free of control, as were inward transfers originating in French Franc Area countries. The law also provided for the statistical registration of all inward and outward payments. Normally, the repatriation and surrender of claims, earnings, and proceeds accruing abroad would no longer be required. Import and export regulations were not affected, although certain exchange control formalities were abolished; these included the requirements that import licenses and import certificates be domiciled with an 468 authorized bank, and that exporters sign a foreign exchange commitment in respect of all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. July 1. Decree No. 67-150 of June 29, 1967 established the principal rules for the application of Ordinance No. 67-36. The decree defined the concept of "foreign countries" and indicated the types of capital transactions with foreign coun- tries that would be subject either to declaration or prior approval. It also provided that the import and export of gold, with certain exceptions, required prior approval by the Minister of Finance and that the import and export of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO were free, with the proviso that residents traveling to countries outside the West African Monetary Union must declare to the customs any amount in BCEAO notes carried if that amount exceeded CFAF 150,000. The import and negotiation in Upper Volta of banknotes or coins that were legal tender in Guinea or Mali remained prohibited. The Minister of Finance would issue any instructions necessary for the operation of Upper Volta's payments agreements with foreign countries. July 1. Decree No. 67-149 of June 29, 1967 created a Balance of Payments Committee charged with periodically compiling a national balance of payments. For this purpose, all banks and finan- cial institutions as well as the postal administration were required to notify the BCEAO of all pay- ments between Upper Volta and foreign countries, all transactions in foreign currency, all transac- tions in CFA francs that affected financial rela- tions with foreign countries, and all transactions in securities between residents and nonresidents. The BCEAO was authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the postal administration, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. July 1. The Exchange Control Department was abolished. A Department of External Finance would be established in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. July 17. Notice No. 19 to Importers and Exporters of the same date formally abolished all exchange control formalities, obligations, and pro- cedures relating to imports and exports, including the requirement of an Exchange Office visa on import and export titles. As a result, import and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA export licenses required only the visa of the For- eign Trade Bureau to become valid. Import cer- tificates required only the visa of the customs office releasing the goods. July 19. Note No. 901 of July 14, 1967 of the Director of Customs was published. It stated the procedures for imports from and exports to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area. July 20. Decree No. 67-178 of July 20, 1967 abolished the exchange tax (droit fixe) that was applicable to most payments to countries outside the French Franc Area. July 26. Ordinance No. 67-40 amended four Articles of Ordinance No. 67-36. August 1. Notice to Importers No. 22 of August 9, 1967 liberalized the import of addi- tional commodities when originating in and shipped from EEC countries. They included wheat flour, certain fats and oils, household soap, matches, and ju te fabrics. 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Exchange Rate System On October 7, 1960, a par value for the Uruguayan Peso was established by Uruguay with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Certain exchange transactions take place in an official exchange market conducted by the mone- tary authorities.1 Other exchange transactions take place at a fluctuating rate in an interbank free market in which the Central Bank intervenes. The monetary authorities maintain the official buying and selling rates within 1 per cent of the free mar- ket rate. On December 29, 1967, the official buying and selling rates were Ur$198 and Ur$200 per US$1, respectively, and the interbank free market rate was about Ur$198.50 per US$1. The proceeds f rom basic exports must be surrendered to the monetary authorities. Such proceeds are subject to taxes (detracciones), which give rise to various effective buying rates. A tax of %0 of 1 per cent is payable on all funds received from abroad. Many imports are subject to surcharges. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through the authorized banks and the monetary authori- ties. The latter collect import surcharges and export taxes, hold the prepayments and advance deposits required for certain imports, and receive export and import registrations. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Uruguay has bilateral payments agreements are made through accounts maintained in U.S. dollars as the accounting unit.2 Settlements with other countries are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration with the monetary authorities prior to placing orders 1 On Ma rch 1, 1967 a new Central Bank was estab- lished. It is still in the process of be ing organized and m a ny operations are carried out on its beha lf by the Bank of the Republic. The term "monetary au thor i t ies" as used here refers to both banks taken together. 2 These coun t r ies are Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- m a n y, Po land, and Spain. 470 abroad.3 Imports of certain goods are freely per- mitted. Imports of virtually all other goods are temporarily suspended. The monetary authorities make exchange available for public sector trans- actions and, at their own discretion, to private customers and commercial banks. Exchange for other transactions may be obtained in the inter- bank market. Imports are classified in seven categories: goods in one category are not subject to surcharge; goods in the other six categories are subject to a surcharge of 10, 60, 90, 150, 225, or 300 per cent, which is payable at the time of registration. A very small number of imports require prepayments (consignaciones) of 50 or 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value in Uruguayan pesos; the prepayment must be lodged with the monetary authorities at the time of registration and is refundable on application after six months. As regards other goods, freely permitted imports are exempt from prepayment unless total imports of the commodity concerned in the period Decem- ber 1, 1967-March 31, 1968 exceed 20 per cent of those in the period July 1, 1966-October 31, 1967; any excess, however, is subject to a prepay- ment of 200 per cent (140 per cent for imports from LAFTA countries). For goods subject to the 150, 225, or 300 per cent surcharge, an advance deposit of 200 per cent is also required. The advance deposit must be made with the monetary authorities at the time the import is registered; it is refunded 180 days later. Imports of all items appearing in the Uruguayan con- cession list for trade with LAFTA countries or the special concession lists for Ecuador and Para- guay are exempt from advance deposit require- ments and subject to reduced prepayments; some of these items are also exempt from surcharges, while the rest are subject to reduced percentages. All imports are subject, in addition to any customs duty required, to additional import duties ranging from 1.5 per cent to 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value and payable upon customs clearance. All imports valued at over US$1.82 are subject to consular charges of ^o of 1 per cent on the peso amount resulting from conversion of the f.o.b. value at a 3 At the end of the year, the import of m any com- modities remained suspended. On Janua ry 15, 1968, however, the rema in ing import prohibitions were v i r t u a l ly e l im in a t ed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution rate of Ur$55 per US$1; the amount of the charges is payable in foreign exchange, at a rate of Ur$l = US$2.10 (at a rate of Ur$l = US$1 for petroleum and petroleum products, alcohol, and tetraethyl lead). Prepayments, advance deposits, and surcharges in most cases are calculated on average c.i.f. prices (aforos) established for many commodities or on the actual c.i.f. value, whichever is higher. In a few cases, the calculation is based on an officially assessed price (also referred to as aforo), which usually is expressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram. Imports ordinarily subject to the 10 per cent surcharge are exempt from this surcharge if transported in Uruguayan ships. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely through the interbank market. Companies consti- tuted outside Uruguay are required to pay a 4 per cent tax on income accruing in Uruguay and a fur ther 10 per cent when transferring this income from Uruguay. There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of most exports are subject to taxes (detracciones or retentions), which are withheld by the monetary authorities. For some commodities, the tax is stipulated in pesos by unit of export commodity, but it may not be more than 50 per cent or less than 0.01 per cent of the peso proceeds of the export, except that for exports of greasy wool the stipulated minimum is 25 per cent, while for washed and scoured wool, tops, wool yarn, and the by-products of comb- ing and spinning it is 5 per cent; these percent- ages may be adjusted at 60-day intervals. The exchange proceeds of exports subject to taxes must be surrendered in full to the monetary authorities, not later than 10 working days after shipment has been authorized; the proceeds of other exports need not be surrendered. For exports of wool and meat, minimum f.o.b. values (minimum surrender prices or aforos) expressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram have been established for various grades and types. URUGUAY Exports of certain types of beef-dairy cows and wool ewes are prohibited. Exports of wheat are from time to time permitted up to certain quantities. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles may be held, utilized, or sold in the interbank market. There are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely through the interbank market. Cold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Uruguay or abroad. Imports and exports of gold by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities or authorized industrial and pro- fessional users are settled at the official buying and selling rates; all other imports of gold are temporarily suspended. Payments and receipts in respect of all other international transactions in gold are settled through the interbank market. Changes during 1967 March 1. The new Central Bank started its operations. March 7. All import subsidies were eliminated. March 15. The import prohibition for com- modities subject to surcharges of over 90 per cent was extended to September 15, 1967, except when the goods originated in other LAFTA countries and were included in Uruguay's con- cession lists. (On April 1, 1967, this exemption was extended to all goods of LAFTA origin.) March 16. The aforos applicable to meat exports were reduced considerably; the retentions on wool exports were raised. March 16. The official buying and selling rates were depreciated from Ur$79.40 and Ur$79.80 per US$1 to Ur$85.50 and Ur$85.90 per US$1. May 26. The overbought or oversold position of commercial banks could not exceed specified limits. 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY May 30. The official buying and selling rates were depreciated from Ur$85.50 and Ur$85.90 per US$1 to Ur$87.70 and Ur$88.30 per US$1. July 6. The exchange market was closed. July 17. The exchange market was reopened. Imports of all commodities except those specified in a new list were suspended for 180 days, unless they originated in LAFTA countries. Authorized imports included certain essential items such as medicines and petroleum products, imports under foreign credits, and goods from LAFTA countries. Export proceeds had to be surrendered to the Bank of .the Republic. Commercial banks were prohibited from selling exchange for invisibles while exchange houses were henceforth authorized to act only as buyers, having to surrender to the banking system all foreign currencies in excess of US$5,000 or its equivalent. July 17. The 30 per cent surcharge was reduced to 10 per cent; goods imported in Uruguayan ships were exempted from this sur- charge. August 11. The official buying and selling rates were changed from Ur$87.70 and Ur$88.30 per US$1 to Ur$98 and Ur$99 per US$1. The monetary authorities introduced an exchange guarantee system of undertaking to deliver exchange, subject to availability, for imports free of surcharge or bearing the minimum surcharge, 60 days after the peso counterpart, calculated at the official rate, had been deposited with the Cen- tral Bank, or after customs clearance, whichever date occurred later. The list of freely permitted imports was fu r ther reduced to include only crude petroleum and the items on the special LAFTA concession lists applicable to Ecuador and Paraguay. Goods for industry, including raw materials, could be imported up to a monthly total equivalent to the corresponding monthly average in 1966. All other goods were pro- hibited for a period of 180 days. September 19. Decree No. 624/967 increased, with certain exceptions, the official customs valua- tions of imported commodities by 100 per cent. 472 The new valuations would remain in effect until the total value of goods in customs had been determined. November 6. New official buying and selling rates were set at Ur$198 and Ur$200 per US$1. The exchange rate guarantee system introduced on August 11 was eliminated. Commercial banks were permitted to deal freely in exchange for any purpose and in any amount, subject to the pre- vailing limits on their overbought and oversold positions. Exchange houses were again permitted to conduct exchange transactions freely, but their overbought or oversold position was limited to US$20,000; any net purchases in excess of this limit had to be sold to the banking system. November 6. A new list of authorized imports was announced; it only contained items free of surcharges or subject to the minimum surcharge of 10 per cent. November 6. New retention taxes were applied to exports of wool. The retention tax on meat was raised from 30 to 40 per cent of the aforo value. November 6. All export subsidies were elimi- nated. December 1. A new list of freely permitted imports was announced. It included various con- sumer goods, medicines, raw materials, and fuels and lubricants. With certain exceptions, all other imports remained prohibited until April 30, 1968 (but see footnote 3). December 1. The system of import prepay- ments (consignations) was revised. The use of the 50 and 100 per cent rates was largely dis- continued. Imports were exempt from prepay- ments, provided that total imports of the com- modity concerned in the period December 1, 1967-March 31, 1968 did not exceed 20 per cent of those in the period July 1, 1966-October 31, 1967. Any excess, however, would be subject to a prepayment of 200 per cent (140 per cent for imports from LAFTA countries). December 1. New rates of retention tax were set for exports of beef, mutton, and hides. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.265275 gram of fine gold per Bolivar or Bs 3.35 = US$1. Exchange transac- tions take place at the following rates. The Central Bank of Venezuela purchases proceeds of the petroleum and iron ore exporting companies at the rate of Bs 4.40 per US$1. Most other exchange proceeds are purchased by commercial banks at rates close to Bs 4.48 per US$1. Proceeds from exports of cacao and coffee may be purchased also by the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 4.485 per US$1; in certain circumstances they are eligible for special subsidies (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). The Central Bank sells exchange to the Government and its agencies and to the commercial banks at Bs 4.485 per US$1. Commercial banks sell exchange to the public at Bs 4.50 per US$1 for all transactions. The Cen- tral Bank, through its Import Subsidy Office, pays a subsidy of Bs 1.15 per US$1 on exchange pur- chased to make paymen ts for imports of wheat and powdered milk. The Central Bank offers swap facilities under which it buys U.S. dollars at Bs 4.47 and resells at Bs 4.50. Administration of Control Import and export licenses, when required, are generally issued by the Ministry of Development or the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, depending on the commodity. Under the terms of an agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank, the latter has the responsibility of ensuring that a subsidy is applied to the appro- priate transactions; the Import Subsidy Office of the Central Bank administers the payment of this subsidy, which is granted only on import paymen ts for wheat and powdered milk (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). Imports of these products require both an import license from the Ministry of Development and a permit from the Import Subsidy Office; exports containing a sub- s tan t ial component of wheat or powdered milk also require a perm it f rom the Import Subsidy Office. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Chile and Mexico may be made through accounts main- tained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela, and the central banks of Chile and Mexico. Imports and Import Payments Certain goods either are prohibited or may be imported only by the Government; the former include fully assembled automobiles. Many tex- tiles and a number of other commodities require import licenses; quantitative restrictions are main- tained on these items for protective purposes. Import licenses for some products are issued on the condition that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the amount imported. Imports eligible for the subsidy of Bs 1.15 (wheat and powdered m i lk) require permits from the Import Subsidy Office and import licenses from the Ministry of Develop- ment. All other commodities are free from import licensing. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made free ly; exchange for this purpose is purchased from com- mercial banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for the export of some products essen- tial to the domestic economy (including coffee and cacao) must be obtained from the Ministries of Development and Agriculture and Livestock. Export permits from the Import Subsidy Office are also required if commodities eligible for the Bs 1.15 subsidy are a substantial component of the export. The export of gold requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. The petroleum and iron ore exporting companies must surrender to the Central Bank export proceeds, to the extent of their local currency requirements (including taxes), at a rate of Bs 4.40 per US$1. Exporters of coffee and cacao may sell exchange proceeds to the Central Bank at Bs 4.485 per US$1; they may receive an additional payment for this exchange in the form of a subsidy, calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Venezuelan ports from falling below specified m in imum amounts regardless of external dollar 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA prices for these products. The minimum prices guaranteed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock range from Bs 168.19 to Bs 181.64 per quintal for coffee, and from Bs 121 to Bs 145 per quintal for cacao. The benefit of these arrange- ments is also extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. On the basis of the prices existing during 1967, such additional pay- ments were being made for all grades of coffee and the lower grades of cacao. The export of strategic materials to certain countries is prohibited. Proceeds front Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely dis- posable. Capital All capital transfers are permitted freely. Bro- kerage activity in Venezuela, however, in shares or units of foreign investment trusts or mutual funds is prohibited. There is no registration procedure for incoming capital. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment pur- poses; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Changes during 1967 During the year, a number of additional com- modities were made subject to an individual import license. March 14. The guaranteed minimum prices for exports of coffee and cacao were revised. The amount that could be paid during 1967 as a sub- sidy on coffee exports was limited to Bs 6 million. April 25. Subject to certain conditions set out in Presidential Decree No. 803, imports of primary products intended for the manufacture of national products exclusively for export were partially or entirely freed from import duties. May 10. The quotas for 1967 for imports of specified textile products and clothing were an- nounced; those for imports on behalf of the textile industry were set at 50 per cent of 1966 imports. September 1. The Venezuelan National List embodying the tariff concessions granted to speci- fied member countries of LAFTA (Chile, Colom- bia, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay) entered into force. October 10. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed by the Central Banks of Venezuela and Chile. December 27. The guaranteed minimum prices for exports of coffee and cacao were extended beyond December 31, 1967. 474 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM Exchange Rate System No par value for the Vietnamese Piastre has been established with the Fund. The official parity is VN$80.00 per US$1. No sales or purchases of exchange are made at the official rate. The official rate plus a Consolidation Premium or a Consolidation Tax of VN$38.00 per US$1 applies to all purchases and sales of exchange, giving rise to effective rates of VN$ 117.20 buying and VN$118.80 selling; however, a subsidy of VN$38 per US$1 is granted on sales of exchange for certain study expenses abroad. Rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are computed on the basis of their official parities in relation to the effective U.S. dollar rate applied to the transaction concerned. Payments and receipts through the official market must be effected through the authorized exchange banks. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Direc- torate-General of Exchange of the National Bank of Viet-Nam. Most remittances must have the prior approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange; the authority to approve some pay- ments for private invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. Imports under U.S. "project aid" programs require no license but are subject to special contracts or procurement procedures. Licenses for other imports financed with U.S. aid are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and are countersigned by the National Bank (Direc- torate of Foreign A id ). Licenses for imports financed with Viet-Nam's own exchange are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and are counter- signed by the Directorate-General of Exchange. However, for imports of a noncommercial char- acter, machinery spare parts, and cultural materi- als, when valued at US$50 or less, the Directorate- General of Exchange is authorized to grant licenses. Export licenses are issued by the Min- istry of Commerce, but they also require the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Prescription of Currency All imports shipped from Hong Kong, irre- spective of their origin, must be paid for in sterling. All other imports financed by Viet-Nam's own resources must be settled in U.S. dollars, with the exception of imports from France and imports effected within the framework of a loan agreement, to both of which special regulations apply. Special rules are also applicable to imports financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development (A ID ). All other settlements are made in con- vertible currencies, mainly in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or French francs. There is an inoperative payments agreement with the Republic of Korea. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts with banks, subject to the approval of the Directorate- General of Exchange. A category of nonresident accounts, called Capital Accounts, covers piastres owned by non- resident foreigners that may not be transferred abroad. Balances in Capital Accounts may be used for investment in certain areas of economic activity designated by the Ministry of National Economy. Their use is subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Investments financed from Capital Accounts generally are not covered by the Investment Law of 1963 (see section on Capital, below), and proceeds from the liquidation of such investments are credited to Capital Accounts unless the Ministry of National Economy has declared them eligible for the privi- leges of the law. Balances in Capital Accounts are negotiable between nonresident foreigners. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are made in accordance with an annual commercial import program, the bulk of which is divided into three parts: (1) imports financed with funds from the U.S. AID; (2) imports financed from Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange resources; and (3) "third-country- financed imports," i.e., imports financed with Japanese reparations, French, German, and Japa- nese loans, or French export credit. In principle, products imported under the AID program are not included among imports that are financed other- wise, and vice versa. However, when AID financ- ing proves insufficient for obtaining imports of essential products, such imports may be financed from Viet-Nam's official exchange reserves. Many 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM imports are prohibited. There is an open general license procedure for most permitted imports that are financed from the country's own exchange. Individual import licenses, which are not trans- ferable, are, however, required for practically all imports. The issuance of licenses for most imports shipped from France is suspended. Some imports are permitted without foreign exchange (sans devises)', these include imports by end-users with branches abroad, gifts and samples, aviation gasoline, lubricants, and spare parts for international airlines, and other small imports, when the Directorate-General of Exchange is satisfied that the foreign exchange privately held by the importer has not been obtained illegally. Imports from Cambodia are suspended. Import licenses generally are valid for all noncommunist countries except Cambodia and France; the main exception is that certain goods financed by U.S. aid must originate in specified noncommunist countries ( the Republic of China, India, the Republic of Korea, Morocco, Pakistan, the Philip- pines, Singapore, Tunisia, or the United States). Imports are classified in 18 broad categories. An importer may make application to import goods only in a specified number of categories. Import licenses under programs financed by the U.S. AID are not issued for shipments valued at less than US$5,000. No minimum value is imposed on licenses for imports financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange. Importers who use less than 90 per cent of a license issued for AID-financed imports or less than 97 per cent of a license issued for imports financed from Viet- Nam's own reserves are subject to a penalty. The penalty in the former case may go up to 20 per cent of the value of the amount not utilized. In the latter case, the penalty is determined by the Directorate-General of Exchange on a case-to-case basis. All imports financed with Viet-Nam's own for- eign exchange and valued at VN$ 10,000 or over require a letter of credit. Mandatory margin deposits are prescribed on the opening of import letters of credit for most commodities; depending on the goods involved, these deposits are 10, 20, 25, 40, 60, or 100 per cent. They are calculated on the counter-value at VN$118 per US$1 of the 476 invoice price plus the applicable equalization tax (taxe de perequation) .I An import license constitutes at the same time an exchange license. Exchange is granted for all authorized imports at the official rate plus a Con- solidation Tax of VN$38 per US$1. An "austerity" tax, ranging from 5 per cent to 210 per cent, is charged on the c.i.f. value of nonessential or competitive imports calculated at the official rate of exchange.2 Many imports also are subject to an equalization tax, ranging from VN$10 to VN$215 per US$1, when they are financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange or sans devises; imports financed by foreign aid are exempt from this tax. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require approval by the Directorate-General of Exchange. Exchange for all authorized invisibles is sold at the official rate, plus a Consolidation Tax of VN$38 per US$1. A subsidy of VN$38 per US$1 is applied to transfers for expenses abroad of government- sponsored students. Students are granted US$80 a month for study in the Republic of China or Hong Kong, and US$150 a month for study elsewhere; they are also granted allocations for housing and for extraordinary expenses. Foreign specialists employed in Viet-Nam may transfer 60 per cent of their salary if their family is abroad, or 50 per cent if they are single or have their family in Viet-Nam; they are also entitled to a special allocation for home leave. Foreign firms are generally permitted to transfer up to 90 per cent of their net annual profit after tax, after deduction of any losses in previous years. Profit transfers by foreign enterprises estab- lished or expanded after 1963 under the terms of the 1963 Investment Law are governed by the provisions of that law (see section on Capital, below). All dividends declared in Viet-Nam and 1 W i th effect from Janua ry 1, 1968, the m in imum ma rg ins were set at 10, 15, and 20 per cent. Commercial banks were free to apply higher margins according to the standing of the importer and the market situation for the commodity concerned. Some essential commod- ities were exempt f rom ma rg in deposit requ iremen ts; these inc luded flour, m i lk, sugar, newsprint, and petro- leum products. 2 W i th effect from March 30, 1968, the rates of aus ter i ty tax were increased for most commodities already subject to it, and most exemptions were termi- nated. The m i n im um rate of the tax was raised f rom 5 per cent to 10 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution accruing to nonresidents may be transferred in fu l l, a f ter payment of taxes. Resident nationals may once a year acquire foreign exchange for tourist travel equivalent to up to US$30 a day, depending on their financial status, for a period of up to three months, depend- ing on their destination; children under 12 are entitled to one half of this allocation. These amounts may be supplemented by the equivalent of US$40 in foreign banknotes. There are special allowances for business travel. Travelers are per- mitted to take with them up to VN$500 in Viet- namese banknotes. Foreign exchange not used by foreign travelers may be re-exported when a declaration is made to the customs and evidence is given that any utilized exchange has been sold to an authorized bank. Exports and Export Proceeds All permitted exports require a license; they must be registered with an authorized bank, which is responsible for the repatriation of the foreign exchange. All exports to communist countries and exports to any destination of manufac tured or sem imanufac tured products originally imported into Viet-Nam, gold, rice, rice products, and certain other items are prohibited. Export proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate, plus a Consolidation Prem ium of VN$38 per US$1. Export subsidies are granted on specified minor exports as follows: VN$50 per kilogram on black tea, VN$20 per kilogram on green tea, VN$30 per kilogram on coffee, VN$9 per kilogram on polynemus, VN$12 per kilogram on raw cotton, and in varying amounts on most hand icraft products. Exports of rubber are subject to an export tax of 20 per c e n t3 on the f.o.b. va lue calculated at the official rate of exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be sur- rendered at the official rate, plus a Consolidation Premium of VN$38 per US$1. Foreign m i l i tary personnel and official U.S. civilian personnel serving in Viet-Nam are paid in scrip ("m i l i tary payment certificates" or MPC's) which can be exchanged for piastres only ? R edu c ed to 1 per cent w i th e f fect f r om Ma rch 9, 1968. VIET-NAM through official channels; those personnel are not permitted to possess foreign banknotes or travelers checks in Viet-Nam. There are military banking facilities, however, under which eligible foreign persons may open accounts in piastres, MPC's, or U.S. dollars at two U.S. banks in Saigon. Travelers entering Viet-Nam may bring in any amount of foreign exchange, but it must be declared to the customs upon entry. A traveler may bring in Vietnamese banknotes up to a total of VN$500. Foreign military and civilian per- sonnel (government officials) are not permitted to bring foreign banknotes into Viet-Nam. Capital Under general regulations, capital may be imported without formalities, but foreign investors must register their capital with the Vietnamese authorities and agree on the terms of the invest- ment in order to be able to repatriate their capital and to transfer profits. Under the Investment Law of 1963, special benefits may be accorded to new foreign investments in the sectors of the economy that are given high priority. Applications must be approved by the interdepartmental Investment Committee. The m in imum investment in agricul- ture was established at VN$0.5 million, and in industry at VN$1 million. Imports of equipment and spare parts needed by foreign undertakings covered by the law are exempt from customs duties. Foreign technicians employed by these enterprises are exempt from income tax for 2 years. Foreign investments are free of taxes on profits, securities, and real estate for specified periods of time. The new investments are not subject to any nationalization measures for the first 15 years from the date of the written authorization granted to the investor; they are accorded the same treatment as that applicable to domestic investments. The law provides for the transfer of profits at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent of the invested capital, and for the repatriation of the original investment af ter 5 years at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent if the capital is newly imported (a f ter 20 years for investment of foreign- owned capital previously held in V ie t-Nam). All imports and exports of capital (including imports in k ind) are settled at the rate of VN$118 per US$1. 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM Investments not covered by the Investment Law are subject to the regulations and case-to-case decisions of the Directorate-General of Exchange, which authorizes the transfer of up to 90 per cent of net annual profits after taxes but does not permit disinvestment; such investments are not eligible for the above-mentioned tax exemptions. Gold Within Viet-Nam, the holding of gold and all transactions in gold are subject to licensing, but the controls are not rigidly enforced and unlicensed holdings of gold by individuals are tolerated. Only the National Bank is empowered to import and export gold. Since July 1966, it has sold gold bars to authorized banks at prices fixed by the Gold Market Stabilization Fund. Banks are per- mitted to resell the gold to licensed jewelers for processing into jewelry intended for sale to the public. The Fund's price for sales to banks has been VN$9,000 per tael since November 1966. All domestic transactions in gold are subject to a luxury tax of 10 per cent on the sale value or the manufacturing cost. The export of gold by physical or juridical persons other than the National Bank is prohibited. The import of gold by physical or juridical persons other than the National Bank is also prohibited, with the follow- ing exceptions: (1) Vietnamese settled in Laos may, when returning to Viet-Nam, bring in up to 13 taels of gold in the form of jewelry; (2) resi- dents may import gold without allocation of for- eign exchange, provided that they have an import license and pay a customs duty of 90 per cent and an austerity tax of 75 per cent; (3) nonresidents may, without allocation of foreign exchange, bring into Viet-Nam any quantity of gold, provided that its entry is declared and that it is deposited in safe custody with an authorized bank; the utilization of such gold is subject to prior authorization by the Directorate-General of Exchange, and if it is sold in Viet-Nam the sales proceeds must be credited to a Capital Account. Changes during 1967 During the year, a large number of changes took place in the application of the equalization tax (taxe de May 12. The mandatory margin deposits for many imports were changed, the margin on a wide range of goods being reduced from 40 per cent to 25 per cent. May 19. Complementary export subsidies on minor exports were reintroduced. For goods cov- ered by export licenses issued or to be issued in 1967, they were black tea (VN$50 per kilo- g ram ); green tea (VN$20 per kilogram); coffee (VN$30 per kilogram); polynemus (VN$9 per kilogram); raw cotton (VN$12 per kilogram); specified handicraft products (subsidy fixed on case-by-case basis). The export tax on duck feathers would be reimbursed on all sales covered by 1967 export licenses. June 1. Importers who had an import registra- tion in any import category became eligible for import licenses for all commodities within that category, provided that these were not financed by U.S. aid nor reserved to end-users. June 2. Imports of gasoline for aviation, for shipping, and for use by foreign contractors were financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange, and the sale proceeds were required to be collected in foreign exchange. August 4. Crew members of foreign ships cal- ling at Vietnamese ports were not allowed to carry payments instruments denominated in currencies other than Vietnamese piastres. August 8. With effect from August 1, 1967, the export tax on rubber was reduced from 40 per cent to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value calculated VIET-NAM at the official rate of VN$80 per US$1, and the export tax on duck feathers was abolished. August 28. The equalization tax was also ap- plied to imports without foreign exchange. September. The minimum value of import licenses under programs financed by the U.S. AID was raised from US$3,000 to US$5,000. September. Petroleum fuels, portland cement, and sugar were again financed under the U.S. AID import program. All pharmaceutical products were financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange. September 15. Resident and nonresident travel- ers leaving Viet-Nam could obtain at an author- ized bank the equivalent of US$40 in foreign banknotes, upon production of a passport and ticket. October 1. The Consolidation Premium of VN$38 per US$1 was extended to all financial and commercial transfers from abroad to Viet-Nam; the Charity and Assistance Subsidy of VN$38 per US$1 was abolished. Previously, the premium was not applied to expenditures of foreign govern- ments, international organizations, and foreign contractors, for all of which the buying rate was VN$79.20 per US$1, with the exception that charitable transfers from foreign governments or international organizations received a VN$38 sub- sidy, making the effective buying rate VN$117.20 per US$1. October 23. The equalization tax rates on numerous commodities were changed. 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0710937 gram of fine gold per Yugoslav Dinar or Din 12.50 = US$1. All exchange transactions take place at rates based on the par value. Administration of Control On the basis of laws governing these matters, the Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provisions in respect of foreign trade and exchange transactions. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade, by virtue of these general pro- visions, establishes rules and regulations and makes decisions governing commercial transac- tions, and issues import and export licenses when required. The Federal Secretariat for Finance prescribes the specific provisions governing exchange transactions. This Secretariat and the National Bank of Yugoslavia administer the exchange control. The National Bank prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign coun- tries. All foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through the National Bank or an authorized bank. The latter are of two types. Fully authorized banks, which must have a mini- mum foreign exchange credit fund equivalent to US$2 million, may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugoslavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations. Limited authorized banks, which must have a minimum foreign exchange credit fund equivalent to US$400,000, may conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugo- slavia only; they may neither keep foreign exchange accounts abroad nor engage in foreign credit operations, except through the intermediary of a fully authorized credit bank. Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic organizations (both producing and trading undertakings) registered for this pur- pose with district courts. Registration is effected automatically, provided that certain conditions, including the provision of m in imum working capi- tal, are fu lf i l led. Economic organizations that are not registered to conduct foreign trade channel their orders through economic organizations which export and/or import on their own behalf. 480 Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and according to the procedures set for th in those agreements. If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requiring settlements through bilateral clearing accounts as follows: (1) in U.S. dollars with Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Brazil, Bul- garia, Cambodia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Greece, Guinea, Hungary, Israel, Mali, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, Spain, Tunisia, Turkey, the U.S.S.R., and the United Arab Repub- lic; (2) in sterling with Mainland China; and (3) in their respective currencies with Ghana, India, Iraq, and Switzerland. A certain degree of multi- lateralization for payments is provided under the bilateral payments agreements with Iraq, Mali, and Switzerland. Certain settlements with Colom- bia, Jordan, Mexico, and Pakistan take place through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may maintain accounts denominated in foreign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules. Foreigners resident outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convert- ible currencies in Yugoslavia. Foreign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may freely open with the National Bank accounts expressed in foreign currencies or dinars. Foreign exchange accounts of foreign juridical and physical persons are kept in the currency by which the account is fed, although payments to the credit of convertible currency accounts may be made in any convertible currency. Balances on these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia and abroad, except that, if an account is kept in the currency of a country with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments arrangements, outward transfers f rom the account may be made only to that country. Balances on dinar accounts of foreign juridical and physical persons are wholly transferable in foreign exchange if derived from abroad in con- vertible currencies or if the accounts are fed by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution deposit of the countervalue of imported commodi- ties (par t ly processed goods and raw materials) under the foreign exchange regulations. The opening of nonresident accounts to hold local currency deposits accruing f rom other sources requires the approval of the National Bank, as do all transfers abroad f rom such accounts. Deposits derived f rom royalties due to foreign persons, f rom payments for work per- formed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, f rom pensions, f rom disabled persons' allowances, or f rom ali- mony may be transferred abroad under certain conditions. The remaining balances on such dinar accounts may be used for living expenses in Yugo- slavia of the account holder and his close fam i ly if the account holder is a physical person, or of the owners and members of the company if the account holder is a juridical person. Yugoslav resident nationals may maintain for- eign exchange accounts with the National Bank or any authorized bank. These accounts are interest- bearing, and interest is paid in foreign cur- rency. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained for an indefinite period of time and they may be d rawn upon free ly for payments in Yugoslavia and abroad; balances are not transferable, however, to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles, be low ). Yugoslav emigrants resid- ing abroad and former emigrants re turn ing to Yugoslavia may also open foreign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia. imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected by eco- nomic organizations registered as participating in foreign trade. In addition to economic organiza- tions specializing in foreign trade, most major industrial producers are registered. The import of certain basic foods tu f fs, such as wheat, lard, edible oil, and sugar, is carried out by economic orga- nizations that have been selected by the Federal Office for Agricultural Products Reserves, on the basis of public bids, to act as its agents. All commodities included in the foreign trade nomenclature are classified in five categories: LB —liberalized goods; LBO —conditionally liberal- ized goods; GDK —goods imported under global exchange quotas; RK and DK—goods subject to individual quotas (RK if individual quotas are YUGOSLAVIA fixed by quan t i ty and DK if they are fixed in d in a r s ); and D —imports subject to ad hoc licens- ing. More than 1,700 items (out of a total of over 4,300) are classified under LB; protective equip- ment for workers and all other goods not specifi- cally included in the LBO, GDK, RK, DK, or D lists are also liberalized and will not be subject to any quan t i ta t ive restrictions. LB goods are mainly raw materials, foods, and spare parts; they also include certain consumer goods. In 1968 goods imported under the LB regime are expected to account for some 25 per cent of total imports. Exchange for payments for LB imports f rom the convertible currency area is made available freely in any convertible currency appropriate to the exporting country. Payments for imports of liberalized goods from payments agreement coun- tries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant payments agreement. The LBO regime is intended to introduce greater flexibility for trade in the principal commodities exchanged with payments agreement countries and to achieve balanced trade with bilateral countries. The import requirements for all commodities f rom bilateral countries, including those on the LBO list, are determined in consultation between the authorities and the economic organizations mainly concerned. On the basis of import proposals made by the economic organizations, the authorities will negotiate bilateral agreements with the partner countries so as to ensure that required imports will be available. This will then permit licensing of Yugoslav exports to these countries for such amoun ts as are consistent with the principle of achieving balanced trade with bilateral countries. Once agreement has been reached with bilateral partners with respect to the commodity lists, the economic organizations that have previously expressed their interest in importing f rom a bilat- eral country a specified amount of goods on the LBO list must formally undertake to import those goods. To this effect they enter into contracts with authorized banks for the purchase of the necessary bilateral currencies. Once these con- tracts are concluded, the economic organizations involved and all other importers are permitted to import freely commodities on the LBO list from countries that do not have bilateral agreements with Yugoslavia against payment in convertible 481 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA currencies which will be made freely available against payment in dinars. Imports of goods listed as LBO are estimated to account for about 16 per cent of total imports in 1968. The GDK list comprises most consumer goods, some raw materials, and some types of capital equipment, and it is expected that in 1968 imports of commodities on this list will amount to about 52 per cent of total imports. Such imports can be made under several different procedures. Each importer of raw materials or consumer goods receives a global foreign exchange quota and may use the exchange so allocated to purchase any goods listed as GDK. For certain importers the authority to use their allocated foreign exchange quota is dependent on the exports they have made (import-export linking). Major exporters, i.e., exporters whose exports settled in convertible currency account for more than 51 per cent of their total sales proceeds, are permitted to retain 100 per cent of their convertible foreign exchange proceeds and may use these funds for imports of raw materials and other production materials for their own needs. Payment for imports of capital goods on the GDK list may be financed from spe- cific exchange allocations; a considerable portion may be freely financed from retention quota funds, funds originating in depreciation allowances, and credits obtained abroad, including suppliers' credit. The specific exchange allocations are limited mainly to large investment projects, includ- ing public utilities; the amounts are determined by the Federal Assembly. In 1968 they are expected to account for some 25 per cent of total imports of equipment. Economic organizations may acquire foreign exchange corresponding to 10 per cent of their annual depreciation allowance, except for certain services which may use percentages varying between 30 and 100 per cent. One half of the exchange thus allocated is in convertible and one half in bilateral currency. Imports under commodity quotas (list RK or list DK ), mainly selected agricultural and mineral products,1 are subject to maximum quotas estab- lished for each commodity and cannot be imported under any other procedure. The quotas are estab- lished either in physical quantities (RK) or in dinars (DK ). There are separate quotas in each 1 At the end of 1967, the quotas for 1968 had not yet been established. 482 case for imports from convertible area countries and payments agreement countries; their alloca- tion among importers is decided by negotiations among the economic organizations.2 Excluding wheat imports, it is estimated that imports under this procedure will amount to only about 7 per cent of imports in 1968. Goods in list D comprise such minor items as gunpowder, ammunition, and opium. Import licenses are required only for list D commodities. Such licenses do not imply the right to purchase foreign exchange; the economic organizations must supply the exchange from their global exchange quotas or retention quotas. Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals may import freely any type of commodity, pro- vided that it has been paid for from their foreign earnings or from their foreign exchange accounts kept in Yugoslavia; for imports in list D, however, a license is required. They may import motor vehi- cles, provided that they show evidence that pay- ment has been made from a foreign exchange account held at the National Bank or an author- ized bank in Yugoslavia. If they have spent at least five years abroad and are returning for per- manent residence, no such proof is necessary. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise transactions, including transportation, are fully liberalized. Exchange to cover export promotion expenses abroad is made freely available to exporters. Pensions, wages, and salaries are trans- ferable under certain conditions. Payments in respect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are freely transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a country with which Yugoslavia maintains bilateral payments arrangements, then such payments may be made only if the agreement in question provides for this to be done. The National Bank may sell foreign currency up to the equivalent of US$32 for remittances for court and other fees abroad and for specified personal 2 In principle, any such allocation among importers must be agreed upon among economic organizations, w i th in the Federal Economic Chamber. If the importers are unab le to agree among themselves, the Federal Sec- re tar iat for Foreign Trade is authorized to decide on the d is tr ibu t ion. Imports of wheat, sugar, rice, and salt for final consumption are administered by the State Food Adm in i s t ra t ion, which is authorized to select the most competitive importer from among registered importers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution expenses. The National Bank may sell any amount of foreign exchange for certain unspecified pur- poses and in justified cases. There is a basic annual exchange allowance of the equivalent of US$32 for tourist travel abroad. Travel agencies may obtain special exchange allo- cations to enable them to sell organized tours abroad against payment in dinars. The National Bank may also authorize travel agencies to sell foreign exchange for both group and individual travel in amounts exceeding the equivalent of US$32. The exchange is provided in the form of travelers checks and cash. Payments for other invisibles may be made from the remittor's own foreign exchange funds (e.g., from retention quo- tas, or, when made by various social and sociopo- litical organizations, from specific annual alloca- t ions); when such exchange is not available, payments for invisibles that have not been liberal- ized are subject to the approval of the National Bank. Not more than Din 50, in denominations of Din 10 or less, or in equivalent denominations in old dinar notes, may be taken out by travelers. Foreign travelers may bring in and take out any amount in foreign exchange without declaring it. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, exports are free of control, except for certain raw materials that are in short supply on the domestic market and certain other materials such as gunpowder, weapons, and narcotic drugs. Exports to countries with which Yugoslavia has a bilateral payments agreement are subject to approval by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. Such approval may also be given for a group of commodities or for all commodities to be exported within a certain period (global approval). Permission to export to bilateral coun- tries may be made conditional on an undertaking to import from such countries a specified quantity of other goods, or to export a specified quantity of the same or other goods to convertible currency countries. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of exportation, unless specific approval is granted to deviate from this rule. The surrender of these proceeds is not required. The fu ll export proceeds may be credited to foreign exchange sight deposit accounts which the exporter maintains with an authorized bank of YUGOSLAVIA his choice; all convertible currencies may be cred- ited to one account, but separate accounts must be established for each bilateral currency. Exchange on these accounts may either be used, subject to the relevant regulations, for payments for imports and invisibles, or be sold to an authorized bank. The part of the export proceeds that remains at the free disposal of the exporter for payments abroad is referred to as the retention quota; the rest may be retained indefinitely but can only be used to import liberalized raw materials and can- not earn interest. The retention quotas may also be placed on interest-bearing time deposit accounts with authorized banks. The permitted retention rates vary according to the type of export con- cerned, the share of exports in total sales of the economic organization concerned, and the increase in exports achieved over the past year; the basic rate is 7 per cent. In some instances (foreign tour- ist services, sales of newly mined gold to the National Bank ), sales against payment in dinars are regarded as exports for retention quota purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within 90 days from the date on which the claim is payable but need not be surrendered in fu l l. Vari- ous retention quota rates apply to receipts from services. Exchange proceeds may be used for payments abroad connected with the activities of the economic organization concerned, including payments for purchases of equipment and other material for its own needs. The retained exchange is not transferable to economic organizations other than those with which the recipients are cooper- ating in technical and business matters, but it can always be sold to authorized banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. Residents may hold interest-bearing foreign cur- rency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited with the full amount of a person's sav- ings from per diem allowances, salaries, and other earnings abroad, from fellowships, and from royal- ties. They may also be credited with the full amount of foreign exchange accruing from inheri- tances, indemnities, insurances, and similar com- pensations up to an amount equivalent to Din 1,000; for amounts in excess of this figure, 30 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA per cent of the excess may be placed to the credit of the account and 70 per cent must be surren- dered. In respect of pensions, disabled persons' allowances, alimony, and grants received from abroad, up to 30 per cent of the total amount received may be placed to the credit of a foreign exchange account and 70 per cent must be sur- rendered. These accounts may be used freely for the personal needs of the account holder and of close members of his fam i ly; they are not transfer- able to other persons or accounts and may be retained for an indefinite period of time. Retail sales of manufactured goods by author- ized trade organizations to foreign tourists in Yugoslavia paying in convertible exchange are made at a discount of 10 per cent, representing the exemption f rom turnover taxes. This discount is granted only on purchases in authorized shops against checks expressed in foreign currencies or against certain foreign banknotes. Certain goods may be sold at a 10 per cent discount to residents paying in convertible exchange exempt f rom sur- render requirements.3 Not more than Din 100 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denominations of Din 10 or less, or in equivalent denominations in old dinar notes, may be brought in by travelers. Capital Foreign loans and credits may be freely con- tracted by fully authorized banks and economic organizations, up to a specified percentage of their foreign exchange credit fund, their retention quo- tas, or their foreign exchange amortization alloca- tions. Foreign loans and credits must be recorded with the National Bank or a fu l ly authorized bank. Such loans must ordinarily be repaid with currency obtained by the economic organization as export retention quotas and foreign exchange amortiza- tion allocations. All other transfers of a capital nature by residents or nonresidents require indi- vidual licenses. Under arrangements approved by the Federal Assembly in July 1967, foreigners may invest in certain Yugoslav economic organizations through joint ventures; such foreign investment is limited to 49 per cent of the organization's capital. 5 W i th e f fect f rom J a n u a ry 1, 1968, the d iscount ceased to be granted to Yugoslav citizens pay ing in con- ve r t ib le currencies for domestically produced indu s t r ial goods. 484 The investment income of Yugoslav economic organizations earned abroad is subject neither to repatriation nor to surrender requirements. Resi- dents are obliged, however, to repatriate and, with the exception of inheritances, surrender all foreign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Capital transfers abroad by residents are usually not approved, but economic organizations participating in foreign enterprises may be allowed by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade and the Federal Secretariat for Finance to export the necessary capital. A decision of the Federal Executive Council on October 14, 1955 requires the Yugoslav authori- ties to continue to permit the remittance of inheri- tances to citizens of the United States, provided that the remittance is requested within three years from the date of distribution of the estate. Gold Residents who are private persons may hold gold coins in Yugoslavia, which may only be sold to the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and they may freely hold, purchase, import, and sell gold jew- elry and other articles of gold. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as trading in gold may import gold jewelry under the GDK import regime; they may freely export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. The export of gold coins is not permitted, except under licenses issued by the National Bank. Changes during 1967 During the year, a number of changes were made in the classification of import commodities. January 1. A new Law on Foreign Exchange Transactions was applied, which had entered into force on July 28, 1966, replacing the 1965 Law on Foreign Exchange Transactions and Payments Regulations. A Law on Credit Transactions with Foreign Countries also went into effect on this date. On the basis of these laws, many comple- men tary provisions had been published in the sec- ond half of 1966, which also became effective on January 1, 1967. Under these regulations, the surrender requirement was abolished for most for- eign exchange receipts. A considerable proportion of imports from convertible currency countries was liberalized, and so were many invisibles. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution January 1. The regulations of November 16, 1966 became effective, under which the Federal Executive Council had established a ratio between a bank's foreign resources and its ability to raise credit abroad or to underwrite guarantees for foreign credits. March 22. Additional imports from convertible currency countries of 6,500 passenger automobiles valued at US$7 million were authorized for domes- tic sale against payment in dinars. The import of spare parts valued at US$3.4 million was also permitted. June 14. Regulations were published on busi- ness cooperation with foreign firms in custom-free zones. July 12. Fattened pigs were removed from the list of liberalized imports. July 26. Imports of cast iron were transferred f rom the LBO list to the RK list. YUGOSLAVIA July 27. Legislation permitting foreign invest- ment in joint ventures in Yugoslavia came into effect. August 10. Antidumping legislation came into effect. October 1. The regulations defining the import regimes for 1968 were published. November 28. A decision was published on compensation transactions with foreign countries. December 27. Regulations were published con- cerning the reinsurance of property and persons with foreign insurance companies. These regula- tions took effect on January 1, 1968. December 30. It was announced that, with effect from January 1, 1968, certain commodities would be shifted from one import list to another, and retention quotas could not be utilized to pay for imports of consumer goods unless the latter were intended for consumption in the catering and tourist industry. 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per Zambian Kwacha or K 1 = US$1.40. The author- ized banks base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. On January 16, 1968 the rate for the U.S. dollar was US$1.41 % buying, and US$1.39% selling, per K 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial and merchant banks. The control of trade is the responsibility of the Minister of Commerce, Industry, and Foreign Trade, who also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Zambia is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settle- ments with residents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Zambian currency, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in Zambian currency to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Payments from countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Zambian currency from an External Account, or in any currency freely exchangeable for sterling. Special regulations apply to settle- ments with Rhodesia. All permitted payments to residents of Rhodesia must be made in Rhodesian currency, in Zambian currency to an External Account —Rhodesia, in sterling to a Rhodesian Account in the United Kingdom, in U.S. dollars, or in Canadian dollars, and proceeds from exports to Rhodesia must be received in U.S. or Canadian dollars. 1 In view of certain changes that took place early in 1968 (see note at the end of th is su rvey ), this survey presents the s i tua t ion as at Janua ry 16, 1968. 486 Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds, with authorized payments by residents, and with trans- fers from other Scheduled Area Accounts. Bal- ances on these accounts may be converted freely into other Sterling Area currencies, may be used to pay residents of Zambia, or may be transferred to other Scheduled Area Accounts. Accounts in Zambian currency held with author- ized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be cred- ited with authorized payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other Exter- nal Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts or to Scheduled Area Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds from authorized banks. Blocked accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with nontransfer- able capital sums in Zambian currency which have accrued to nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances on blocked accounts in Zambian securities, provided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on blocked account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's coun- try of residence, except interest due to a resident of Rhodesia, which is also blocked. Imports and Import Payments Most imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of a few items listed in an open general license do not require individual licenses, but the goods listed in the second schedule of that license are expressly excluded from the open general ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution license.2 The goods included in the open general license are oil products, coal and coke, personal and household effects, samples, diplomatic ship- ments, goods of Kenyan, Tanzanian, or Ugandan origin (provided that they are not shipped by sea); and all goods entering via Dar es Salaam and having been customs cleared by Agence Maritime Internationale in that port. The general license also covers imports of any goods, provided that the import does not exceed K 50 in value. All other goods require an individual import license, regard- less of the country of origin. Foreign exchange or permission to credit a non- resident account in accordance with the prescrip- tion of currency regulations is authorized auto- matically for all permitted imports, subject to the presentation of the relevant documents showing that the goods have either been received in or con- signed to Zambia; special arrangements are in force, however, for payments in respect of freight charges on goods carried by Rhodesia Railways. Unless prior permission is otherwise obtained, all imports must be paid for within six months of the date of importation. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the com- mercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control. Special, reduced allocations apply to payments for invisibles to Rhodesia. For other countries, exchange is granted as follows. The basic exchange allowance for travel is K 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of K 900 each calendar year, and K 10 a day for each child under 12 years of age, with a max imum of K 450 each calendar year. The allowance is cumulative for a period of not more than three years. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other pur- poses, such as education, medical treatment, and business travel. Applications for amounts exceed- ing the limits are granted by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that the exchange is needed for genuine current payments. Foreign 2 These goods include new and used clothing, unmanu- factured gold in any fo rm, sugar, wheat flour, flick knives, explosives, cement, certain radios, matches, motor vehicles w i th four-wheel drive, and footwear valued at less than a specified f.o.b. price. For some of these goods licenses are not issued. ZAMBIA nationals employed in Zambia under a contract of not more than five years are permitted to remit one half of their earnings to Sterling Area countries and Rhodesia if they were recruited outside Zam- bia and one third if recruited in Zambia; applica- tions for remittances to other countries are usually approved, provided that the applicant is normally resident outside the Sterling Area. Foreign nation- als availing themselves of these arrangements are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, maintenance, etc. To facilitate small payments, individuals are freely permitted to remit abroad up to K 20 a month for purposes normally approved by the exchange control authorities. Travelers may not take out more than K 20 in Zambian currency notes and the equivalent of K 20 in foreign currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Almost all goods require an export license. Most exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Certain com- modities are subject to licensing mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials.3 For most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely, and some goods are covered by an open general license. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months of the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Except in respect of travelers from the Democratic Repub- lic of Congo, there is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, but not more than K 20 in Zambian currency notes may be imported. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital, including those to other parts of the Sterling Area, are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made 3 Implements of war, lead in any form, certain min- erals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and jute bags. 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA with funds brought into the country from sources outside Zambia. In general, residents are not permitted to trans- fer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Zambian securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are repatriated. All income earned from these investments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed K 16,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 10,000. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed K 8,000 on departure, together with K 500 for each child, up to a maximum of K 10,000 for a family unit. Thereafter, annual transfers of K 6,000 together with K 500 for each child up to a maximum of K 8,000 for a family unit are permitted. (3) Unmarried persons under 50 are allowed K 4,000 on departure, and subse- quent annual transfers of K 3,000. Persons who have been employed on a contract basis and whose length of continuous residence has not exceeded five years are allowed to remit all their savings to their new country of residence. Persons who have been residents for longer than five years are nor- mally granted emigration treatment when they finally leave Zambia; in addition to their emigra- tion allowance, they may remit gratuities, com- pensation payments, and terminal benefits. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Commerce, Industry, and Foreign Trade; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports 488 by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may only be provided with the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes during 1967 January 27. The Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Foreign Trade announced that henceforth certain consumer goods would only be licensed for importation through the port of Dar es Salaam. February 8. Direct importers in the Eastern Province were informed that an import quota system for the goods that were to be included in the list of commodities to be shipped compulsorily via Dar es Salaam would be established for the period February 1, 1967 to January 31, 1968, which would enable importers to use the route Beira via Salima for these goods. August 28. A new open general license for imports was issued. It specified 21 commodities or groups of commodities that required individual import licenses regardless of the quantity imported, adding motor vehicles with a four-wheel drive as well as two other items to the commodities on the second schedule of the previous general license. It added to the goods not requiring specific licenses imports of (1) all other goods entering Zambia via the port of Dar es Salaam and having been customs cleared by Agence Maritime Interna- tionale in that port, and (2) all other goods of Kenyan, Tanzanian, or Ugandan origin, unless transported by sea. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1968: January 4. The prohibition of the import of old Southern Rhodesian and Bank of Rhodesia and Nyasaland notes and coins was rescinded. January 16. A new currency unit, the kwacha, replaced the Zambian pound. It was equivalent to 10 shillings of the previous currency, the agreed par value being K 1 = US$1.40. The change did not involve an appreciation or depreciation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Appendix ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 490 Principal Features of Member (as at date of hC fa 3 . &, <U **-< ^ 0 . < ! ). * + - o X3 o pa a 1 .« - 1 1 - 1 - « £ 1 « 1 .j I 1 | & g § ,JQ § 1 a I ! 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 * a 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 J ^ j E f E r p s U o S s s o j ^ S o ^ ^ - c o o o o ^^ < d ^ ^ ^ ^ p Q c Q p Q p Q p Q O O O O O O O O O U O OQ - - - x x x x - - - - x - - - - - - - - x -- 1. Article V I II status 2. Article X IV status x x x - - - - x x x x - x x x x x x x x - xx 3. Agreed p ar value exists x - x x x x x x x x - x - x - x - x - - x x- 4. P ar value applied x - - x x x - - x x - x - x - - - - - - x x- 5. Unitary effec t ive rate, not par value ( a) f i x ed rate - x - - - - - - - - x - x - x - x - x x - -x ( b) freely f l u c t u a t i ng rate _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ ( c) pegged rate _ _x_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - -_ 6. Special rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and /or some or a ll invisibles x - - x - x - - - - - - - - - x - x - - x -- 7. Import rate(s) d i f fe rent f rom export rate(s) x - - - - - - x - - - - - x - - - x - - x -- 8. More than o ne rate f or imports x - - - - - - x - - - - - x - - - x - - x -- 9. More than o ne rate f or exports x - - - - - - x - - - - - x - - - x - - x -- 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current trans- actions 3 - x x - x - - x x x - - - x - x x x - x - x- 11. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital trans- actions 3 -x — xx — - x xx — - -x — x xx — x -x 1 2. Prescription of currency x x x x x x - x x x x - - x - x x x x x x x- 13. Bilateral payments arrange- ments w i th members x x - - - x - x - - x - - x - - x x x - - -x 14. Bilateral payments arrange- ments w i th nonmembers 1 5. Import surcharges x x - _ _ - x x - x - x - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - - x - _x_ _x - - x x - x xx _ _ __ _ _ _ x_ 1 6. Advance import deposits x - x - - - - - - x - - - - - x - x - - -- 17. Surrender of export proceeds required 1 8. Part of larger monetary area 4 x x x x - x x x x x - - - x - x x x - x x x- - x - x - - - - - - x - x x x - - - x - - xx 19. Participates in regional economic cooperation 5 - - x x x x x x - x x - x - x x - x x x x -x For footnotes, see pages 492-93. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— Countries' Exchange Systems x country survey) 2 O-V *0 d <2 T3 • a ' S J5 ^ 1 l ! if ! f il !i i ll f i l f l il i.lmf l it i Q P W S S £ £ O H O O O O O O W W W £ 5 £ £ £ £ ^ £ £ ^ 4 £ WW x x - x - - x - - x - - x - x x x x - - - - - x - x - x x - -- 1 ff - 1 - - x - x x - x - - x x - x - - - - x x - x x - x - x - - x xx 2 x x x x x x x - - x x x x - x x x x x x x x x x x x - x x x x- 3 x x x x x x x - - x x x x - x x x x x x - x x x x x - x x x x- 4 - - - - - - - x x - - - - x - - - - - - - - - - - - x - - - - - ( a) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x ( b) _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ (C) - - x - - - - - - - - - - - x - - - - - x - x x - - - x - - -- 5 6 7 - - X - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - X - - - - - - - - - -- 8 X v A - x - x x x - - x - x x x x - x - - x x - x x - x - - x x x xx x x - x x x - - x - x x x x x x - - x x x x x x x x - x x x xx x - x x x x - - x - x x x x x - - x x x x x x x x x - x x x x x !2 - - - - - - - - - - x x - x - - - - x x x x x - x - - - - x -- x - x - - x - - - - x x - x - - - - x x x x x - x - - - - - -- Q tJ 10 11 13 14 - x x - - - - - - - x - x - - x - - - - x - - - - - - - - x - x !5 - x x x - - - - - - - x x - - - - - x - - x - - - - - - x - - x !6 x x x x x x - - x - x x x x x - - - x x x x x x - x - x x x xx 17 - - - - - - x x x - x - - - x - - x x x - - - x - - x x - x x - 18 x - x x - x x x - x x x x x x - x - - - x x x x - x x - - x x- For footnotes, see pages 492-93. 19 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Principal Features of Member (as at date of 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status 3. Agreed par value exists 4. Par value applied 5. Unitary effec t ive rate, not par value (a) fixed rate (b) freely fluctuating rate (c) pegged rate 6. Special rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 7. Import rate(s) d ifferent f rom export rate(s) 8. More than one rate for imports 9. More than one rate for exports 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current trans- actions 3 1 1 . Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital trans- actions 3 12. Prescription of currency 13. Bilateral payments arrange- ments with members 14. Bilateral payments arrange- ments with nonmembers 15. Import surcharges 16. Advance import deposits 17. Surrender of export proceeds required 18. Part of larger monetary area 4 19. Participates in regional economic cooperation 5 K u w a t i X - X X _ _ - - - _ _ X - - - - - X - X - - _ X X X X _ . - - X - X X - - L n o n a b e X X - . _ . - X X X - - - • 8 3 X X X _ _ . - - - - - - X 3 X X X . X X X X - - X X - ec 3 a 1.3 I X - - X . . - - _ - - X X M a l a w i X X X _ X X X - - - X X - M a l y a s i a X X X _ _ X X - - X X X X 1 X - - X X X X X X - X X X M u a t i r n a i a 4 1 X - - X _ _ - X - - = X X M x e i o c - X X _ _ - X X - - - X M o r o c c o X X X X X X X X - X X - "08 X X X X X X X X X X - - N e t e h l r d n a s X - X X _ X X X X - - - X N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e X - X X _ _ - - - - X - X N e w Z a e l d n a - X X X X X X - - - X X X 1 X - X X _ _ - - - - - - X .1fc - X - - _ _ X - - - - X X Ifc '- X X X X X X - - X X X X io X - X X _ X X - X - X - X P a k i s t a n - X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X P a n a m a X - X X _ - - - _ _ - - - X - - - - 1 Prac t ices ind ica ted as ex is t ing do not necessa r i ly app ly to all t ran sac t ion s. 2 In most cases, December 31, 1967. Whe re the da te is a d i f- f e r e nt one, th is is ind ica ted in a foo tno te. 3 Paymen ts to member coun tr ies. Res t r ic t ions other than re- s t r ic t ions imposed for secur i ty reasons. 4 Pa rt of French F ranc Area or Sterling Area. 5 Membe r sh ip in, or association w i th, Ang lo - I r i sh Free T rade Area, A rab Common Ma rke t, Association of Sou theast As ian Na t ions, A u s t r a l i a -N ew Zea land Free Trade Agreemen t, Ca r ib- bean Free T r ade Assoc ia t ion, Cen t ral A f r i c an Cus toms and Eco- n om ic U n i o n, Cen t ral Am e r i c an Common Marke t, Cus toms U n i on of West A f r i c an States, East A f r i c an C omm u n i t y, E u r o- pean E c o n om ic C omm u n i t y, Eu rop e an Free Trade Assoc ia t ion, L a t in Am e r i c an Free Trade Association, Mozamb ique Conven t ion, R eg ion al Coope ra t ion for Deve lopment ( I r a n, Pak i s tan, and Tu r- k e y ), or West A f r i c an Econom ic Commun i ty. 6 As of J a n u a ry 1, 1968. 7 As of March 1, 1968. 8 As of J a n u a ry 28, 1968. 492 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Countries' Exchange Systems l country survey) 2 P a r y a u g a - X X - X X X X - X - X 1 X - X _ _ X - - X - X h P i l i p p i s e n - X X X X _ X X - X - X o P t r a g u l - X X X X X X X X X - X w R a d n a - X X X X X X - - X - X S d u a i A r b a i a X - X X _ - - - - - - c3 bC <D 1 - X - - . _ X X - - X X 0)c310> 02 - X X X X X X X - X X X o p a g n S i r e - X X X _ X X - X X X X o S m a i l a 5 1 - X X X X X X X X X - X o3 _O °C < £ 3 £ - X X X X X X - - X X X «0 ^g "3a 02 - X X X X X X X X X - - g "Sw - X X X X X X X X X - - u S i r a n m X - X X . X X - X X - X g1w X - X X . X X - X - - X d .31< c .2'f-l w - X X - X X X X X X - X T n a z n a i a - X X X X X X - - X X X T a h l i d n a - X X X X - - - X - X 1 - X - - _ . - - - - X X T i r n i d a d & T o g a b o - X X X . X X - - X X - T n u i s i a - X X X X X X X X X X - >s <D ^4J-l H - X X X X X X X X X - X o31bC P - X X X X X X - - X X X d 0)tf X2 o3 {-( 73 0) P - X X - X X X X X X - X U n t i d e K i o d g n m X - X X X X X - - X X X ^w 1 P X - X X . _ - - - - - - 31 1a p - X - - _ - X - - X X U r y a u g u - X X - . . X X X X - X V e u z e n e l a - X X - . _ - - - X - X 03 •40 ^ 0> - X - - X X X - - X - - .2'> o3 -ft 1 £ - X X X X X X X X - - - Z a m b i a 7 1 - X X X X X X - - X X - 1 2 3 4 5 — „ „ „ 