 EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS ANNUAL REPORT 1989 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution © 1989 International Monetary Fund Price: US$15.00 (US$8.00 to university faculty members and students) Address orders to: International Monetary Fund Publication Services Unit Washington, D.C. 20431 U.S.A. The Library of Congress has cataloged this serial publication as follows: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions. 1979— Continues: International Monetary Fund. Annual report on exchange restrictions, 1950-1978 1. Foreign exchange — Law and legislation — Periodicals. 2. Foreign exchange — Control — Periodicals. I. Title. K4440.A13 157 [date] 341.751 79-644506 ISSN 0250-7366 ISBN 1-55775-119-6 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund June 19, 1989 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1989, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the Report. Sincerely yours, Is/ Michel Camdessus Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director ill ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Preface Introduction Afghanistan Algeria Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Aruba Australia Austria Bahamas, The Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium and Luxembourg Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Botswana Brazil Burkina Faso Burma Burundi Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China, People's Republic of Colombia Comoros Congo Costa Rica Cote d'lvoire Cyprus Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Ethiopia Fiji CONTENTS Page vii 1 Page 3 6 10 12 18 19 23 27 31 33 40 44 49 51 55 56 58 60 69 73 76 79 83 86 88 92 96 100 108 114 116 119 122 126 129 132 133 135 139 144 151 155 158 161 Finland France Gabon Gambia, The Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jordan Kampuchea, Democratic* Kenya Kiribati Korea Kuwait Lao People's Democratic Republic Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Page 164 168 174 178 180 183 188 191 194 196 199 201 204 206 209 211 218 222 233 238 241 244 248 252 257 261 265 270 274 275 280 283 285 287 289 291 294 298 301 The Fund has not received from the authorities of Democratic Kampuchea the information required for a description of the exchange and trade system as of December 31, 1988. V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VI CONTENTS Maldives Mali Malta Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Morocco Mozambique Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Rwanda St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Solomon Islands Somalia Page 305 307 310 313 316 319 323 330 332 336 339 341 344 347 351 355 358 359 367 369 371 374 381 389 397 401 403 407 410 412 414 416 418 420 424 426 429 431 433 Page South Africa 436 Spain 441 Sri Lanka 445 Sudan 451 Suriname 456 Swaziland 460 Sweden 462 Switzerland 466 Syrian Arab Republic 468 Tanzania 473 Thailand 476 Togo 480 Tonga 485 Trinidad and Tobago 487 Tunisia 492 Turkey 498 Uganda 504 United Arab Emirates 508 United Kingdom 510 United States 513 Uruguay 520 Vanuatu 522 Venezuela 524 Viet Nam 530 Western Samoa 534 Yemen Arab Republic 536 Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of . . .. 539 Yugoslavia 542 Zaire 547 Zambia 552 Zimbabwe 556 Appendix. EEC: Antidumping Duties, Countervailing Charges, and Import Surveillance Measures Introduced or Eliminated During 1988 Summary Features of Exchange and Trade System in Member Countries List of Abbreviations 568 574 561 Note: The term "country," as used in this publication, does not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state as understood by international law and practice; the term also covers some territorial entities that are not states but for which statistical data are maintained and provided internationally on a separate and independent basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PREFACE The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions has been published annually by the Fund since 1950. It draws on information available to the Fund from a number of sources, including that provided in the course of official visits to member countries, and it has been prepared in close consultation with national authorities. The project is coordinated in the Exchange Systems Surveillance Division of the Exchange and Trade Relations Department. It draws on the specialized contributions of staff of that Department (for specific countries), with assistance from staff mem- bers of the Fund's five Area Departments, together with staff of other Departments. vn ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION The Report provides a detailed description of the exchange and trade system of individual member countries, including a nonmetropolitan territory (Hong Kong), for which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement, and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. The exchange and trade system of one other country, which is not a member of the Fund, is also described. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as at the end of 1988, but in appropriate cases reference is made to significant developments that took place in early 1989. A standardized approach has been followed, un- der which the description of each system is broken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each country includes a final section that lists chron- ologically the more significant changes during 1988. The description of the restrictive system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involving ex- change restrictions or exchange controls. As in pre- vious Reports, questions of definition and jurisdic- tion have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restrictive systems in their en- tirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the coverage extends to such features as import licensing, advance deposit requirements, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the section Changes During 1988 includes references to certain developments that may have a direct impact on in- ternational transactions but are not necessarily re- flected in the body of the country descriptions, such as major revisions of import tariffs or developments in regional cooperation. The description given in the section Exchange Ar- rangement is in line with the notification of exchange arrangements that member countries have fur- nished to the Fund under Article IV, Section 2(a). The structure of exchange markets is described, and the official exchange rate is given. The rates quoted are those effective on December 31, 1988, unless stated otherwise. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for working purposes. The section on Prescription of Currency describes the requirements affecting the selection of the cur- rency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries. Where a country has con- cluded payments agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to pre- scription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agree- ments are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. Under Nonresident Accounts, a description is given of the manner in which the country treats accounts, if any, maintained in its currency by account holders who are not regarded as resident in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types are also described. In the section on Imports and Import Payments, import-licensing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of other requirements im- posed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general li- cense" indicates arrangements whereby certain im- ports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing require- ments, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be given either freely, or restrictively, according to administrative decisions. Under Payments for Invisibles, the procedures for permitting payments abroad for current transac- tions in invisibles are described briefly, together with any limitations on the export of foreign and domestic bank notes. For some countries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Export-licensing requirements and procedures are described under Exports and Export Proceeds, with an outline of the requirements that may be imposed on the handling of proceeds from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surren- dered" indicates that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or ex- change dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries there is a requirement that such exchange or part thereof be sold in a free market. 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2_ INTRODUCTION Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any regulations governing exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the import of foreign and domestic bank notes are described. In the section on Capital, the special arrangements or limitations attached to international capital move- ments are described. Where regulations on foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are usu- ally dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. The section on Gold gives a summary of the princi- pal regulations that govern the holding, negotiation, import, and export of gold coin and gold in other forms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Afghanistan is the Afghani. Da Afghanistan Bank (the central bank) maintains an official rate that is applied to (1) transactions of the Central Government; (2) certain foreign currency income earned in Afghanistan (see section on Pro- ceeds from Invisibles, below); and (3) all transac- tions in accounting units specified under bilateral payments agreements. The official exchange rate is defined in terms of the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 30, 1988, the official exchange rate was Af 50.60 = US$1 buying and Af 51.20 = US$1 selling, respectively. Aside from the official rate, there are several mixed rates that apply to certain export transac- tions, a market-determined rate that prevails in the money bazaar, and a rate set by commercial banks that is supposedly linked to the money-bazaar rates. On December 30, 1988, the commercial bank rate was Af 241.00 = US$1 buying and Af 242.00 = US$1 selling, respectively. There are surrender requirements for a number of exports, and mixed rates result from the rates of surrender requirements, as follows. For medical roots, other medical products, raisins, and skins (except karakul), exporters are required to sur- render 10 percent of the foreign exchange proceeds to Da Afghanistan Bank. For patl wool, licorice, and other wools, the surrender requirements are 15 per- cent, 20 percent, and 30 percent, respectively. For all these products one half of the amount to be surrendered is converted at the rate of Af 51.2 = US$1, and one half at the rate of Af 100.0 = US$1, or at an average rate of Af 75.0 = US$1. The remaining foreign exchange proceeds may be used for imports, converted at the money-bazaar rate, deposited in an account with a commercial bank, or retained in an account abroad for a period not to exceed 8,10, or 12 months, depending on the country. For karakul skins, exporters are required to surrender 100 per- cent of the proceeds, of which 45 percent is con- verted at the official rate, and 55 percent, at the commercial bank rate. Cotton may only be exported by four approved state enterprises, which pay the producer Af 158.30 per kilogram. Da Afghanistan Bank posts rates for deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. Da Afghanistan Bank charges commissions ranging from 0.10 percent to 0.375 percent on exchange transactions. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official and the commercial banking sectors. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the Government through Da Afghanistan Bank. The control is facilitated by the existence of rela- tively large companies specializing in the export of such commodities as karakul, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such commodities, except for cotton, which can only be exported by four authorized companies. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghan- istan has bilateral payments agreements1 must be made in bilateral accounting dollars in accor- dance with the procedures set forth in those agree- ments. The proceeds from exports of karakul to all countries must be obtained in convertible curren- cies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license, but import transactions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, liquor, arms, and ammunition) are pro- hibited on grounds of public policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special per- mission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few tex- tiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) is also prohibited. There are no quantitative restric- tions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quantities (and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded. An annual import program is drawn up by the Ministry of Commerce, covering imports of both the public and private sec- tors. Adjustments in the public sector import plan are made in the light of changing circumstances. 1 People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Demo- cratic Republic, and U.S.S.R. 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 4 AFGHANISTAN The import plan for the private sector, drawn up on the basis of proposals submitted by the Chamber of Commerce, is indicative. Importation of petroleum products and sugar is a state monopoly. The present customs tariff structure was promul- gated in June 1974 and has since then been modified in the annual budgets. Actual tariff rates, ad val- orem and specific, vary considerably. Ad valorem duties usually range between 20 percent and 35 percent. Payments for imports through the banking sys- tem to payments agreement countries may usually be made only under letters of credit. Payments to other countries may be made under letters of credit, against bills for collection, or against an undertaking by the importer to import goods at least equivalent to the payment made through the banking system. Except for public sector imports under the govern- ment budget, all importers are required to lodge minimum import deposits with banks at the time of opening letters of credit; the deposit ratios, based on the c . i .f. value of imports, range from 25 percent for essentials to up to 45 percent for other imports. Payments for Invisibles Tourists are permitted to take out up to US$2,000 or the equivalent in other foreign currencies, and traders can take out up to US$15,000 for imports of goods. When foreign travel is for other purposes, the permissible amounts are determined by the ap- propriate authorities in each case. Permission from the central bank or one of the commercial banks is necessary for taking out foreign currency. Exchange for private travel, as for other private purposes, has to be acquired in the bazaar market. The fee for a passport valid for one year is Af 20,000 for tourist travel and Af 1,000 to Af 2,500 for other types of travel. Travelers are not allowed to take out more than Af 2,000 in domestic bank notes and Af 50 in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than gold) are not subject to li- cense, but export transactions must be registered. Exports of a few commodities (e.g., opium and mu- seum pieces) are prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Pay- ments, above). Proceeds from exports of karakul to all countries, including payments agreement coun- tries, must be received in convertible currencies. Receipts from exports of natural gas, karakul, cot- ton, and wool are subject to 100 percent surrender requirements. Receipts from medical roots, other medical products, raisins, skins (except karakul), and licorice are subject to surrender requirements ranging from 10-30 percent. Export proceeds from these products are converted at various exchange rates (see section on Exchange Arrangement, above). In the case of trade under bilateral payments agreements, export proceeds may be retained in bilateral clearing dollar accounts with Da Afghan- istan Bank. These retained proceeds may either be used directly by the original exporter or sold to other importers. In either case, the retained proceeds are converted at the basic official rate of Af 51 = US$1, with the exception of proceeds from cotton exports by ginning and pressing enterprises of the Ministry of Light Industries and Food, which are converted at the rate of Af 50 - US$1. In the case of exports to countries trading in convertible currencies, export proceeds may be retained abroad for 8, 10, or 12 months, depending on the country of destination. During the period the funds are held abroad, the exporter may use them for import of any goods other than those included in the list of prohibited goods. Alternatively, the exporter may sell the pro- ceeds to an importer who may use them to purchase abroad from a list of 33 specified items. At the end of the periods indicated above, the foreign exchange holdings abroad have to be repatriated to a non- interest-bearing foreign currency account with a bank in Afghanistan. After this transfer, the re- tained proceeds may be used by the exporter or sold to another importer only for importation from the list of 33 specified commodities referred to above. In all cases, sale of retained proceeds to other import- ers takes place at the commercial bank rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Sixty percent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees working in the Afghan public and private sectors and 40 percent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign experts and advisors paid from grants under aid programs must be con- verted into Afghanis at the official rate. Travelers entering Afghanistan are required to spend a mini- mum of the equivalent of US$26 per day in foreign exchange. They may bring in any amount of foreign currency but must declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any residue when leaving the country, subject to the above minimum conversion requirement. Travelers may bring in no more than Af 2,000 in Afghan banknotes and Af 50 in Afghan coins. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN _5 Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior approval and is administered by an Investment Committee. The Foreign and Domestic Private In- vestment Law of 1353 (issued on July 4, 1974) provides for a number of benefits, which include (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul province), beginning from the date of the first sales of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports (mainly of capital goods); (3) exemption from taxes on dividends for four years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from personal income and corporate taxes on interest on foreign loans that constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties, provided that the products are permitted to be exported; and (6) mandatory purchases by government agencies and departments of their requirements from enter- prises established under the law where prices of such products are not more than 15 percent higher than prices of foreign supplies. The law provides that foreign investment in Afghanistan can take place only through joint ventures, with foreign par- ticipation not exceeding 49 percent. It also estab- lishes that an investment approved by the Invest- ment Committee shall require no further license in order to operate in Afghanistan. Payments of principal and interest on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20 percent of the total registered capital. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell do- mestically gold in any form. Imports of gold are restricted. Exports of gold bullion and silver, as well as of jewelry, require permission of Da Afghanistan Bank and the Ministry of Finance. Commercial ex- ports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Algeria is the Algerian Dinar. Daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and other specified cur- rencies1 are established by the Central Bank of Al- geria partly on the basis of a fixed relationship be- tween the dinar and a composite of currencies. The currencies included in the composite and their weights take into account the relative importance of payments, including capital transactions, that are made in these currencies. A margin of DA 0.015 has been established between the buying and selling rates of the dinar in terms of the U.S. dollar. On December 31,1988, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were DA 6.7233 = US$1 and DA 6.7383 = US$1, respectively. The foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Central Bank; authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position with their foreign corre- spondents at the end of each day but, under certain conditions, they are permitted to hold cover for doc- umentary credits outside Algeria. There are no ar- rangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank have general jurisdiction over exchange control. The Central Bank assists in the formulation of the ex- change legislation and regulations and is responsi- ble for their application by the authorized banks. Authority over many exchange control procedures has been delegated to five commercial banks and the Postal Administration. Foreign trade is carried out within the framework of the foreign exchange allocation (budget devises) system administered by the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Fi- nance. Investment of foreign capital in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria requires approval by the Na- tional Investment Committee in order to obtain the benefits of the Investment Code. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which no pay- ments agreements are in force are made in convert- ible currencies.2 Payments under foreign supply contracts (contrats de fournitures) can be made in either the currency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the country of origin of the mer- chandise. Foreign holders of servicing contracts are required to open local nonresident accounts to which payments are made by the Algerian contract- ing party; such accounts must be closed within six months of the end of the contract beyond which date outward transfers of the funds or their use for pur- poses unrelated to the contracts are not permitted. Nonresident Accounts Most nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars or Internal Nonresident Ac- counts. There are at present four types of accounts, as follows: 1. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened without authorization and may be credited with payments from any country. Balances in such ac- counts opened prior to January 1, 1975 by nonresi- dent physical persons of foreign nationality have been released for transfer abroad. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars (CEDAC accounts) may be opened by individuals or juridical persons of foreign nationality, including those un- der supply or servicing contract arrangements. Such accounts may be credited only with deposits that, under the regulations applicable when the de- posit is made, are free from any restrictions on transfer. They may not be credited with amounts that are transferable to the bilateral area. They may be debited for payments to any foreign country, for payments in Algeria, or for the provision of foreign bank notes that the account holder intends to export when he travels abroad. These accounts bear inter- est and may not show a net debt position. 3. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, with- out prior authorization, in the name of any physical person residing in Algeria, not of Algerian na- tionality, who intends to leave Algeria to return to the country of origin. These accounts may be cred- ited freely with an amount equivalent to the hold- ings on October 20, 1963 in the account of the per- son concerned; with the proceeds from sales of real Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2Specified noncommercial settlements with Morocco and Tunisia are channeled through a dirham account at the Bank of Morocco, and an account in Tunisian dinars, at the Central Bank of Tunisia. 6 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA _7 estate of the account holder, provided that the funds are paid directly by a ministerial officer; with the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and with any other payments, up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be debited without prior ap- proval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Outward transfers require indi- vidual approval. Emigrant workers may maintain certain accounts in Algeria that are credited with the proceeds from the conversion of convertible currencies (comptes epargne-devises). 4. Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened by physical or juridical Algerian nationals resident in Algeria or by nonresident Algerian nationals who have resided for more than six months in a foreign country. Such accounts may be freely credited with (1) book transfers from abroad using either postal or banking facilities, (2) imported convertible foreign currencies that have been declared at the account holder's entry into the country, and (3) domestic bank-to-bank book transfers. The accounts may be freely debited for book transfers abroad but only through the banking system; they may also be de- bited for purchases of dinars, for book transfers in dinars, and for purchases of convertible foreign cur- rencies to be physically exported by the account holder. The interest rate payable on deposits in these accounts is fixed quarterly by the Central Bank of Algeria. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of origin. In accordance with Law No. 88/29 of July 19,1988, the Government has a monopoly over foreign trade, which it exercises by granting conces- sions to public economic enterprises, public agen- cies, and interest groups. In principle, all import operations are carried out within the framework of the foreign exchange allocation, which the Govern- ment grants to (1) public economic enterprises for their own requirements, (2) foreign trade offices for resale, and (3) the National Chamber of Commerce for the private sector as a whole to cover its needs. Nevertheless, in certain cases, imports may be au- thorized through the issuance of import authoriza- tions to public and private enterprises that enable them to import goods and services not covered by the foreign exchange allocation. The foreign ex- change allocation is formulated on a multiyear basis, except for 1989, as an integral part of the enter- prise's medium-term plan. It includes: (1) revenue (e.g., export receipts, external loan receipts), (2) expenditure (imports payments, repayment of external loans), and (3) short-term and medium- term borrowing ceilings. In priority cases, the Government may grant an enterprise the right to exchange more foreign cur- rency than it takes in to cover the necessary opera- tions. For certain products (cereals, semolina, cof- fee, etc.), the exchange right is expressed in terms of the quantities needed for consumption, while for other products it is in terms of value (spare parts, Pharmaceuticals, etc.). An enterprise that holds a foreign exchange allocation may use it freely for its current operations and is subject to no fur- ther a priori administrative and financial control formalities. Special regulations apply to unremunerated im- ports of capital goods, to automotive vehicles, and to noncommercial goods that have an f .o .b. value exceeding DA 10,000. These imports are not subject to any prior formalities or to any limits, regardless of the value or number of operations concerned. The list of items that may be imported in this manner is prepared periodically by ministerial decree. Import supporting documents must be presented to the bank through which the payments relating to the transaction must be paid. Except as otherwise indicated by the exchange control authorities (Min- istry of Finance or Central Bank), down payments may not exceed 15 percent of the total value of an import operation. In accordance with Law No. 80-07 of August 3, 1980, imports must be insured by Al- gerian insurers. When a public agency, public en- terprise, or ministry is effecting expenditures for imports deemed to be urgent or of an exceptional nature, the bank may effect payment before ex- change and trade control formalities have been completed. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles to all countries require the approval of the Central Bank. When supporting documents are presented, however, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the Postal Administration, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments, such as (1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) educational expenses, and (5) advertising expenses. For payments for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the granting of exchange must be authorized by either the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance. Public enterprises may use exchange allocations (budgets devises) freely for payments for specified invisibles, including transportation and other services con- tracted abroad. The transfer of family remittances is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 8 ALGERIA suspended. The premiums for insurance on all risks arranged in Algeria by Algerian residents must be paid in Algeria. Public and private sector national exporters may open EDAC accounts (i.e., exporters' Convertible Dinar Accounts) denominated in con- vertible dinars, which can be credited with up to 10 percent of repatriated proceeds and be used for any of the following payments: business travel al- lowances; air travel expenditures; salaries and ex- penditures of foreign technicians; imports of essen- tial spare parts and capital goods amounting to less than DA 200,000; representation costs at overseas trade fairs and exhibitions; and legal and admin- istrative expenses. Residents of other countries working in Algeria under technical cooperation programs, for public enterprises and agencies, or for certain mixed com- panies may transfer abroad a percentage of their net salaries, as follows: 50 percent for single persons and married persons whose families are in Algeria and 70 percent for persons whose families are abroad. For other workers who have contracts with other employers and hold the necessary employ- ment documents, the amounts that may be trans- ferred are 35 percent for single persons and married persons whose families are in Algeria and 55 per- cent for persons whose families are abroad. The payments must be transferred once a month on the basis of the remuneration for the previous month. Persons making such transfers are not entitled to allocations for other personal transfers. Foreign exchange allocations for tourism abroad by Algerian residents are suspended. Residents re- quiring medical treatment abroad are entitled to a foreign exchange allowance equal to DA 800 if the patient is over 15 years and DA 400 if the patient is under 15 years. Emigrant Algerian workers who take their vacations in Algeria may, when returning abroad, re-export foreign exchange freely imported and duly declared on their arrival in Algeria. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia receive an al- location in Saudi Arabian riyals; the amount of this allowance is fixed for each pilgrimage and may be furnished in the form of checks that may be cashed on arrival for those traveling by sea or by air. Resi- dent travelers may take out Algerian dinar bank notes up to DA 50 a person. Foreign nonresident travelers may also re-export any foreign currency declared upon entry. However, on their arrival in Algeria, foreign nonresidents must convert foreign exchange equivalent to a minimum of DA 1,000. Travel tickets that are bought by nonresidents for travel abroad must be paid for with imported for- eign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Certain exports, including used equipment and machinery, livestock, firearms, ammunition, explosives, and certain radio equipment, are pro- hibited regardless of destination. All other export operations are carried out within the framework of the foreign exchange allocation system. Non- hydrocarbon exports may take advantage of certain incentive measures granted by the Government, including, for example, (1) exemption from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and the flat- rate levy on the wage bill, and (2) export promotion assistance (AMPEX). Sales on consignment are subject to authorization by the Ministry of Finance and must always be registered prior to customs clearance. Export pro- ceeds must be repatriated immediately after they are collected. Those petroleum companies that hold mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria the pro- ceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons, calcu- lated on the basis of a contractual price a barrel that is fixed by agreement with the companies con- cerned. For one petroleum company holding min- eral rights, however, there are different repatriation requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and surrendered. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign bank notes, coin (except gold coin), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresidents, in- cluding those of Algerian nationality, must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Resident travelers may reimport Algerian dinar bank notes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian bank notes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any destination abroad are subject to individual license; residents are not normally permitted to acquire cap- ital assets outside Algeria. All borrowing abroad or from nonresidents is subject to prior approval by the Minister of Finance or the Central Bank. The Investment Code of September 15, 1966 provides for state guarantees in respect of foreign investments of more than DA 500,000 in the indus- trial and tourist sectors and for a retransfer guaran- tee in respect of the sale or liquidation proceeds of invested foreign capital. It also establishes that profit remittances on such investments will be per- mitted up to 15 percent annually of the foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA 9 capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geo- graphic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Remittances of profits and retransfers of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under the code. The law on joint ventures with foreign companies, which came into effect in April 1982, provides foreign partners with a guarantee of fair return on investment, tax exemptions of up to five years on industrial and commercial profits, re- duced taxes on reinvested profits, and the repatria- tion of earnings and royalties in respect of transfers of technology. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Under Ordi- nance No. 70-6 of January 16, 1970, unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence Nationale pour la Distribution et la Transformation de 1'Or et des Autres Metaux Pre- cieux (AGENOR). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and dis- tribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious metal, including gold. Imports of gold for use by dentists and goldsmiths are made by AGENOR under import licenses issued by the Minis- try of Finance and the Central Bank. Changes During 1988 Administration of Control The foreign exchange allocation system was intro- duced for 41 public enterprises; in 1989, the system will be extended to all economic agents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the East- ern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the East- ern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On De- cember 31,1988, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transactions with commercial banks were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. All foreign exchange transactions are subject to a levy of 1 percent; the minimum levy is EC$1 a transaction. Antigua and Barbuda formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement as from November 22, 1983. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all currencies. Export li- censes are required for a range of products, par- ticularly those subject to export duties. Import li- censes are issued by the Collector of Customs in the Ministry of Finance and by the Ministry of Eco- nomic Development, depending on the type of commodity. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements involving South Af- rican currency are not permitted. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents with the approval of the Ministry of Finance JThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Domin- ica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. and may be maintained in any currency. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, such accounts may also be opened by resident individuals or firms in tourist-oriented industries or in export trades where most receipts are in foreign currency and a large portion of inputs are imported or are financed in foreign currency. External accounts can be cred- ited with receipts from sales of merchandise (whether from export-oriented or local production) or from remittances. Commercial banks are re- quired to report external accounts operations to the Ministry of Finance on a monthly basis. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other commodities require individual li- censes, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Antigua and Barbuda follows the CARICOM rules of origin adopted in June 1981. Payments for autho- rized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence. Authority is delegated to commercial banks to approve applica- tion forms for import licenses after confirming sight of documents. The approved forms must be submit- ted to the Ministry of Finance on a weekly basis. Imports that are exempt from import duties in- clude basic foods and agricultural imports. All other exemptions, for machinery, equipment, and raw materials, are granted on a case-by-case basis and generally under the Fiscal Incentives Law and the Hotel Incentives Act. Payments for Invisibles Upon presentation of supporting documents, and with the authorization of the Ministry of Fi- nance, residents may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$750 a trip outside the ECCB area; however, this limit may be exceeded with per- mission from the Ministry of Finance. In terms of CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago currency), the basic al- lowance is TT$500 a trip for holiday travel, TT$2,500 a trip for business, and TT$3,000 a trip for medical reasons. Official authorization is required for amounts exceeding these limits. There are no limits on the amount of local currency that may be taken out of the country. Profits may be remitted in full, 10 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA 11 subject to confirmation by the Commission of In- land Revenue of registration for corporate income tax purposes. Student remittances are usually ex- empted from the foreign exchange levy. for amounts over US$1,000, Ministry of Finance approval must be obtained. Levy exemptions for transfers, especially for charity purposes, are usu- ally granted. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required for certain com- modities to any destination. Surrender of export proceeds is not required, and re-exports are not subject to any tax if they take place within the bonded area. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers to Antigua and Barbuda may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. For- eign currency coin is not normally exchanged. Checks and drafts in U.S. and Canadian currency can be tendered up to US$1,000 without restriction; Capital There are no legislated restrictions on capital movements. Foreign investment is granted the same incentives as domestic investment under the Fiscal Incentives Law and the Hotel Incentives Act. Large transfers abroad for investment purposes can be phased over time by the Financial Secretary. Gold There are no restrictions on imports of gold. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Argentina is the Austral (plural Australes). A dual exchange rate system is in opera- tion consisting of the official exchange rate and a fluctuating, largely market-determined exchange rate (the "free rate") for all transactions not required to be channeled through the official exchange mar- ket. After August 1988, the transactions to be con- ducted at the official exchange rate were restricted to receipts from most agricultural exports and half of the receipts from industrial exports, imports of fuel and certain pharmaceuticals, nonfinancial ser- vice payments of the Government for embassy ex- penditures, and debt-service payments by the Trea- sury. The Central Bank auctions foreign exchange in the free market on a regular basis, with the aim of maintaining a certain spread between the two rates. The official exchange rate for the austral in terms of U.S. dollars is announced on a daily basis by the Central Bank of Argentina. On December 30, 1988, the closing rate for the austral in terms of the U.S. dollar was A 13.37 = US$1 (selling). Transactions are allowed in certain other curren- cies,2 with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on markets abroad. 1 Effective February 6,1989, a new exchange system consisting of three exchange rates was introduced: (1) a commercial ex- change rate to apply to the proceeds from exports of agricultural commodities, to 50 percent of the proceeds from exports of industrial products that were transacted in the official market, and to public sector debt and debt-service transactions; (2) a special exchange rate, to apply to 50 percent of the proceeds from exports of industrial products, to the major part of imports that were previously transacted in the free exchange market, and to transactions with international organizations; and (3) a free ex- change market, to apply to all other transactions, including capi- tal transactions. The exchange rate will be depreciated period- ically on the basis of the guidelines that were applied to adjustments of the previous official rate. The special exchange rate will be maintained initially at a level representing a 25 per- cent depreciation of the commercial exchange rate in foreign currency terms. The free exchange market will be market- determined, and the Central Bank will not intervene in the market. At the same time, the authorities announced a schedule for transferring exports from the commercial exchange market to the special commercial exchange market and the free exchange market during 1989. Effective April 17, 1989, the official market ceased to operate, and a free foreign exchange market was estab- lished. The exchange rate in the market is determined by supply and demand conditions, and all transactions are channeled through the market. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Purchases and sales of foreign exchange are subject to a tax of 0.6 percent. Forward exchange operations are permitted in the private sector with maturities of up to 180 days and at rates agreed by buyers and sellers; such operations must be related to trade transactions, financial loans, or other transactions for which transactions in foreign currency are per- mitted. Since August 1988, limited forward transac- tions have been taking place in the official exchange market. Exchange rate guarantees operate in re- spect of certain financial transactions (see section on Capital, below). Argentina formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out through entities authorized expressly for this pur- pose. These authorized entities include banks, ex- change agencies, exchange houses, and exchange offices; each of these types of institution may be subject to separate regulation. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency All payments between Argentina and Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, under reciprocal credit agree- ments within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Under an agreement main- tained with Bolivia, a fixed proportion of Argen- tina's payments for Bolivia's natural gas exports is made into a non-interest-bearing account at the Central Bank of Argentina, and it is used solely for purchases of Argentine goods to be consumed in Bolivia and for Bolivia's debt-service payments to Argentina. Argentina maintains reciprocal credit arrangements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Hungary, Po- land, and the U.S.S.R. by means of special accounts in each central bank through which transactions are settled. Transactions with other countries must be settled in freely usable currencies. The Central Bank of Argentina maintains a special account with Ro- mania under which payments for imports of equip- ment and capital goods from Romania are offset 12 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 13 with receipts from exports of certain products from Argentina. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in australes and in foreign exchange in the name of any nonresi- dent, provided that the accounts are credited with remittances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in Argentina or abroad. Transfers be- tween accounts may be effected freely, except in payment for exports. Imports and Import Payments Import payments may be effected in convertible currencies, except as otherwise specified in the reg- ulations on prescription of currency. Settlement of payments for imports by the private sector may be freely effected by authorized financial entities, and since August 1988, they have been carried out at the rate in the free exchange market. Imports and re- lated payments by the public sector require the prior approval of the Central Bank. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to a stamp duty of 0.6 percent and selective internal taxes ranging from 5 percent to 22 percent. Most public and private sector imports require a "Sworn Declaration of Need to Import" to be sub- mitted by the importer to the intervening banks, which are authorized to accept, check, and process these declarations and submit them to the National Import Directorate. Some imports require an import license (Certificate of Sworn Declaration of Need to Import) issued by the National Import Directorate. Certain public enterprises are also permitted to im- port under foreign treaties without the issuance of an import license. Import license requests submitted by the private sector to the Industry and Foreign Trade Secretariat are issued only after the importer has placed with a bank a deposit equal to either the estimated duty payable on the import, or 5 percent of the import value, in cases of lower or equivalent value. The deposits are blocked until the import duty is paid or for a period of time defined in the central bank regulations, whichever is earlier; they are indexed in terms of the U.S. dollar. The following set of procedures applies to the acquisition of an import license for all imports that require licensing. Although the import of goods classified as "nonessential" (List I) is technically prohibited, all goods on List I have been transferred to List II (see below) on a temporary basis. The prohibition on the importation of goods on List I, when it applies, does not apply to temporary im- ports, goods included in the border traffic scheme, or samples and prototypes. The Secretary of Indus- try and Foreign Trade is empowered to grant import licenses for goods on List I when the item is consid- ered necessary for scientific or technical reasons, or in light of the quantity or quality of domestic production. For goods on List II, the Secretary of Industry and Foreign Trade issues import licenses in consultation with an Honorary Import Advisory Committee on which both government institutions and competent commercial and industrial organizations are repre- sented. When the industrial section of the Industry and Foreign Trade Secretariat does not approve an import license request, the Secretariat is em- powered to study the individual case and make a determination. The goods on List II include a range of consumer goods and industrial inputs for which close substitutes are available in Argentina, now covering 18 percent of domestic production. Import licenses for certain raw materials and inputs for the pharmaceutical industry and for medical and health services (List III) require the prior approval of the Ministry of Health and Social Action, and licenses for imports intended for national defense and for the security and police forces require the prior ap- proval of the Ministries of Defense or Interior. Import licenses are granted automatically for all goods not specifically covered by the foregoing provisions. These include goods imported under the Temporary Admission Regime. Also, goods im- ported under concessions granted by any instru- ment of the LAIA agreement are exempt from the prohibition applicable to goods on List I and the review requirement for goods on List II. Import licenses are issued automatically for goods covered under the Argentine-Uruguayan Economic Cooper- ation Agreement. The actual import value (f .o .b .) must be no more than 10 percent above the stated value of the sworn declaration submitted in application for an import license. Countertrade is permitted for firms engaging in the exportation of promoted exports. In such cases, import payments can take the form of the exporta- tion of promoted goods. Payments for Invisibles In general, the sale of foreign exchange at the official rate is not permitted for invisible payments; all payments may be made through the free ex- change market, with the exception of transfers of profits and dividend earnings. Authorized entities ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 14 ARGENTINA may carry out most types of transactions without prior authorization of the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Minimum export prices (reference prices) are es- tablished for many agricultural and livestock ex- ports as a basis for the payment of duties and the surrender of export proceeds. The full f .o .b. pro- ceeds from all exports must be repatriated and sur- rendered; the proceeds must not be less than the reference price, or if there is no reference price, the f .o .b. value declared on the shipping permit. Pro- ceeds may be received in any convertible currency. Proceeds from traditional exports must be received before shipment by means of advance payments or irrevocable letters of credit payable against shipping documents in Argentina. Proceeds from promoted exports must be repatriated within 180 days from the date of shipment. In both cases, export proceeds must be surrendered within 15 working days of the respective time limits. Proceeds from exports of most agricultural commodities must be surren- dered at the official exchange rate; 50 percent of the proceeds from other exports must be surrendered at the official rate and 50 percent at the free exchange rate. A number of traditional exports (soybeans, beef, and processed hides) are subject to export taxes. Certain nontraditional exports are eligible for re- bates of estimated indirect taxes paid in the process of production. Exports shipped through certain ports are eligible for additional rebates ranging from 7 percent to 12 percent. Many exports, particularly nontraditional ex- ports, are eligible for other export incentives of various kinds. The Central Bank has established a number of special prefinancing and financing re- gimes to be granted to Argentine exporters through banks, with a view to promoting exports of certain goods and services. Also, the Compania Argentina de Seguro de Credito a la Exportation S.A. provides export credit insurance coverage against commercial risks. It also provides coverage for extraordinary risks, on the account of the Central Government, for transac- tions included under the General System of Financ- ing for Promoted Exports. Certain products, mostly nontraditional exports, may be shipped "on con- signment" for 360 days; if not sold within that period, the goods must be returned to Argentina. Various export incentives are provided for pro- moted exports in accordance with the Export Pro- motion Laws of December 16, 1984. These include: (1) a deduction from taxable profits, up to 10 percent of the value of certain exports; (2) the creation of export consortia and cooperatives and the granting of an incentive equal to 4 percent of the f .o .b. value of exports over a period of five years; (3) the es- tablishment of international trading companies; (4) permission for firms to engage in countertrade when marketing promoted exports; (5) a tax draw- back scheme under which rebates would be allowed for taxes of imported inputs and other taxes; (6) the elimination of the 0.5 percent stamp tax for exports from the Federal Capital Area; and (7) the funding of an Export Promotion Fund to finance participa- tion in trade fairs and exhibitions. Under the ARGEX program, enterprises that can establish that their export receipts are at least three times their import payments are eligible for auto- matic and unrestricted access to the Temporary Ad- mission Regime for all inputs and intermediate products and to prefinancing. Under the Special Export Program Scheme, exporters of specified goods who commit themselves to expanding ex- ports are eligible for special payments from the Treasury of up to 15 percent of the increase in the f .o .b. value of exports, for access to central bank prefinancing, and for other benefits. Authority to provide additional benefits under this scheme was restored in August 1988. For traditional exports, the maximum terms for anticipated payments and foreign currency export prefinance are 360 days for processed goods, 240 days for vegetable oils and their by-products, peas, garden produce, chickpeas, rice, wheat flower, and processed meats, and 180 days for grains and other unprocessed agricultural products. For nontradi- tional exports, the maximum term for anticipated payments and foreign currency export prefinance is 360 days. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency receipts obtained from private sector invisibles transactions need not be surren- dered to the official exchange market, but may be sold in the free exchange market. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes and coin, as well as gold coin and "good- delivery" gold bars. Capital Since October 1987, proceeds from private sector financial loans have had to be transacted in the free foreign exchange market; transactions before this date in the official exchange market are eligible for subsequent purchases of foreign exchange in the official market to service such loans. Private sector loans disbursed since October 1987 have been ser- viced through the free exchange market. Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 15 of loans from international organizations, and of all public sector borrowing, may be transacted in the free or official foreign exchange market and must be serviced through the market where the proceeds were transacted. Proceeds from financial loans must be transacted through the official market only if they are to be used as supplementary funds in relending operations. For these loans, interest rates may not exceed LIBOR plus 1 percent, must have maturities of at least 360 days, and in all cases must have fixed maturity dates. There are no conditions, on maturity dates or interest rates, for financial loans transacted through the free market. Principal and interest payments for loans received after November 28,1984 may be effected directly through authorized entities on the maturity date without prior central bank authorization. All amortization payments for loans received not subject to regula- tion A 558 and not related to import operations carried out in accordance with the minimum condi- tions specified for such payments may be settled through the subscription of U.S. dollar bonds of the Central Bank of the Argentine Republic, payable in 15 semiannual installments, with a grace period of three years. All loans outstanding and covered by a swap agreement with the Central Bank as of December 4, 1982 and all loans for which the domestic borrower has obtained an exchange rate guarantee from the Central Bank and which fell due through the end of 1985 have been extended under minimum terms established by the Central Bank. Loans covered by swap agreements that fell due in 1985 were either to be rescheduled by means of the issuance of U.S. dollar-denominated obligations of the Central Bank (BCRA Notes) with a ten-year maturity, or by a direct refinancing between debtor and creditor for up to five years followed by the issuance of a BCRA Note for the remainder of a ten-year period. Loans covered by exchange rate guarantees that fell due in 1986 were rescheduled by means of the issuance of U.S. dollar-denominated obligations of the Govern- ment of Argentina (Notes) with a 19-year maturity from October 1987. The inflow of financial loans undertaken by local foreign-owned enterprises and originating from foreign enterprises that either directly or indirectly control the borrowing enterprises or are their sub- sidiaries requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. Loans endorsed or guaranteed by the State also require prior authorization from the Central Bank. Banks may accept foreign currency sight or term deposits; in the latter case, deposits must be for the account and to the order of the Central Bank, with maturities of 60-360 days. Foreign borrowing by the public sector is regulated by Decree-Law No. 19328 of October 29,1971 and Decree No. 3532 of November 24,1975. Outward capital transfers are not permitted through the official market but may be effected through the free market without restrictions. The foreign investment regime is governed by the Foreign Investment Law (codified text of 1980), which incorporates the amendments made under Law No. 22208 to Law No. 21382. Promulgated by Decree No. 1062 of June 30,1980, the Foreign Invest- ment Law is regulated by Decree No. 103 of Jan- uary 19, 1981. Investments may be made in freely convertible foreign currency in the form of new or used capital goods and their spare parts and ac- cessories; profits and capital in Argentine currency belonging to foreign investors (provided that they are legally transferable abroad); capitalization of ex- ternal credits received in freely convertible foreign currency; intangible assets; and any other form ac- ceptable to the implementing authority or covered by a special regime or a promotion regime. For approval purposes, investments are classified into three categories, as follows: (1) Subject to prior approval by the National Ex- ecutive are (a) investments in the defense and na- tional security sectors, in public service sectors in- cluding the postal system, electricity, gas, telecommunications, computers, electronic equip- ment, and in radio transmitters, television stations, newspapers, periodicals and magazines, energy, education, and financial and insurance institutions; (b) transfers of capital and the acquisition of shares (the latter is permissible only in exceptional cases when it is manifestly beneficial to the national econ- omy) that involve changing the national ownership structure of a local firm belonging to national inves- tors and having net assets exceeding US$10 million; (c) new transfers of freely convertible foreign cur- rency not exceeding US$5 million and not involving a change in the national ownership structure of an existing local firm; (d) investment in any of Argen- tina's stock markets, provided that the amount does not exceed US$2 million for each foreign investor and so long as total foreign investment does not exceed 2 percent of the capital of the company in- volved; (e) investments in which the investor is a juridical person under public law; and (f) invest- ments in which special or promotional benefits are requested that can only be granted by the National Executive and the proposed investment is con- tingent on them. (2) No prior approval is required for (a) total or partial reinvestment of a registered foreign inves- tor's profits (even in the sectors referred to in item ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 16 ARGENTINA (1) above), provided that they do not involve chang- ing the national ownership structure of the receiv- ing firm and are intended to foster the activities for which the original investment was approved or in which the firm was engaged when the law entered into force; (b) new investments in freely convertible foreign currency made for the same purposes as mentioned in item (1) above, and not exceeding 30 percent of the registered capital in the receiving firm and which do not involve converting it into a "domestic firm with foreign capital," or new invest- ments that are made pursuant to a preferential right and in order to maintain an interest equal to or lower than what was held up to that time; (c) new trans- fers of freely convertible foreign currency not ex- ceeding US$5 million and not involving a change in the national ownership structure of an existing local firm; and (d) investment in any of Argentina's stock markets, provided that the amount does not exceed US$2 million for each foreign investor and so long as total foreign investment does not exceed 2 percent of the capital of the company involved. (3) All other foreign investments are subject to prior approval by the implementing authority, which must give its decision within 120 days from the date on which the investment proposal is submitted. Foreign investments existing prior to the entry into force of the Foreign Investment Law are gov- erned by its provisions, which include a special regime for their inscription and recognition. Ex- isting and new foreign investments, as well as all capital movements relating thereto, may be re- corded in the Register of Foreign Investments, which is kept by the Ministry of Economy. Since September 1984, the Central Bank has en- tertained applications for the capitalization into for- eign direct investment of principal falling due with an exchange rate guarantee. From February to Sep- tember 1985, many such applications were ap- proved, but since then approval has not been forth- coming. In addition, although no central bank circular has provided formal authorization, certain requests for the capitalization into foreign direct investment of swaps falling due were approved in 1985. No transactions of this type took place during 1986-1987. In October 1987, a debt conversion scheme was announced that would allow investments to be fi- nanced through conversion of external loan claims into domestic currency at the free foreign exchange market rate. The value of the loan claims would be determined through an auction system. The scheme came into effect on January 1,1988, and the first auction was held in January 1988. Profits on investments under this scheme may not be remitted for at least four years, and capital may not be repatri- ated for ten years. Other registered foreign investments may gener- ally be repatriated three years after entry into Ar- gentina, unless a longer period was fixed when the investment was approved. The right to transfer profits and to repatriate capital related to properly registered investments can be suspended only by the National Executive. In that event, registered foreign investors are entitled to receive, for the re- mittance of profits abroad, the equivalent of the sum to be transferred in external public debt se- curities denominated in foreign currency at the rate of interest prevailing in the international market, against provision of the equivalent in Argentine currency; this regulation is applied under Decree No. 1506/84, which also prohibits the repatriation of capital. Profits on registered foreign capital are subject to a special tax on after-tax profit when they exceed 12 percent of registered capital on an annual basis. This tax is 15 percent for profits of more than 12 per- cent and up to 15 percent of registered capital, 20 percent for those of more than 15 percent and up to 20 percent of registered capital, and 25 percent for those of more than 20 percent of registered capital. The extension of domestic credit to "domestic firms with foreign capital" is subject to special provisions, as set forth in Law No. 21382 (Article 17) and Decree No. 283/77 (Article 71, as amended in 1980). Gold Residents may hold gold coin and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Financial institu- tions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coin or good-delivery bars among themselves or buy such gold from their clients. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are subject to a statistical duty of 0.6 percent, and those by other users are subject in addition to a sales tax. Institutions may carry out arbitrage operations on coined gold or good-delivery gold with their clients, against foreign bank notes. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement August 3. Additional transactions were shifted to the free exchange market, including most import payments and half of the proceeds from exports of industrial products. Following this change, transac- tions to be conducted at the official exchange rate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 17 were restricted to the proceeds from exports of most agricultural products and half of the proceeds from industrial products, public sector imports of fuel and certain pharmaceuticals, nonfinancial service payments of the Government for embassy expendi- tures, and debt-service payments by the Treasury. September 23. Half of the proceeds from some additional export items, including eggs, powdered milk, and some meat products, were transferred from the official to the free exchange market. Imports and Import Payments March 4. All transfers abroad for payments of medical services or the purchase of medical sup- plies were moved from the free exchange market to the official exchange market. March 25. A comprehensive reduction in import duties and quantitative restrictions on imports of petrochemicals and of iron and steel products was effected. In the case of petrochemicals, a range of products was exempted from the prior consultation requirement, and import duties were generally re- duced to a maximum of 20 percent plus a 5 percent transitional tariff through end-1988. In the case of iron and steel, existing import authorization re- quirements were eliminated, while tar iffs were also reduced to a maximum of 20 percent for most items, plus a 5 percent transitional tariff through end-1988. April 18. Import duties on a number of agrochemical products were reduced. June 6. A range of agricultural machinery and equipment items (including tractors and tractor parts) was removed from the list requiring prior authorization. At the same time, import tariffs were eliminated for some products and were set in the range of 10-38 percent for others. September 21. Import controls were lifted on 2,400 items, covering capital goods, textiles other than garments, chemicals and petroleum products, and tobacco. Imports of these products on average rep- resented 18 percent of domestic production. October 21. An import tariff reform was imple- mented that narrowed the tariff band for most im- ports from 15-53 percent (including surcharges) to 0-40 percent, reduced the maximum tariff (applica- ble on automobiles, motor vehicle bodies, and trac- tors) from 115 percent to 40 percent, and reduced the special surcharge on electronic goods. As a re- sult, the average tariff, weighted by production, fell from 43 percent to 30 percent. The special 15 per- cent import surcharge was abolished. Payments for Invisibles August 3. Trade-related services and other ser- vices, except for certain central government pay- ments including expenses for embassies abroad and interest on external debt of the Treasury, were shifted to the free exchange market. Exports and Export Proceeds April 4. Import duty drawbacks on exports were increased to include the additional import duties introduced in October 1987. June 3. The following changes, aimed at increas- ing incentives to obtain external financing and im- posing a stricter control on the quality of operations financed, were introduced in the export prefinanc- ing and financing regimes. (1) Regarding export prefinancing (applicable to promoted exports) included under Communication "A" 1205, (1) the portion of foreign currency de- posits that may be used for export prefinancing was raised from 10 percent to 20 percent; (2) the limit on utilization of rediscounts was raised from 75 percent to 100 percent of the intervening bank's capital (the requirement that the excess over 50 percent be offset by a special deposit was maintained); (3) a provision was included in this regulation that aims at using foreign borrowing to raise funds for export prefi- nancing; and (4) in the case of operations funded by central bank resources, the annual interest rate paid by the exporter was raised from 1 percent to 8 per- cent (plus the exchange rate differential). For opera- tions funded by foreign borrowing, the Central Bank pays the intermediary bank 6 percent as a compensation for the rate paid by the exporter. In the case of operations funded by foreign currency deposits, the Central Bank receives 4.5 percent. In the case of operations funded with the central bank resources, it retains 5 percent. (2) For export financing, (a) the financing available for goods with import content exceeding certain maximum limits was restricted; (b) the interest rate structure was changed in favor of shorter maturities; (c) the guarantee requirements were raised; (d) the minimum size of eligible operations was increased; and (e) maximum periods in force for financing according to the type of product to be exported were maintained. August 3. One half of the proceeds from industrial exports were allowed to be channeled through the free exchange market, with the remainder to be surrendered in the official exchange market; the interest rate on rediscounts for export financing was raised to 8 percent. September 23. Additional agricultural-based prod- ucts were included in the category of goods to which the 50 percent surrender requirement of the export proceeds in the official market applies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARUBA1 (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Aruba is the Aruban Florin, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at Af. 1.7900 = US$1. The official buying rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31,1988 were Af. 1.77 per US$1 for bank notes and Af. 1.78 per US$1 for drafts, checks, and transfers. The official selling rate was Af. 1.80 per US$1. The Central Bank van Aruba (the Central Bank) deals with local commercial banks within margins of 0.00279 percent on either side of parity; on De- cember 31, 1988, the buying and selling rates were Af. 1.7895 per US$1 and Af. 1.7905 per US$1, respectively. Official buying and selling rates for other curren- cies2 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar on the international exchange markets. A for- eign exchange commission of 1.3 percent is levied on all payments made by residents to nonresidents. Administration of Control Foreign exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank. Import licenses, where required, are issued by the Department of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from nonresidents may be made in any convertible currency, except in the legal tender of Aruba. All payments made by resi- dents to nonresidents and receipts through local banks as well as through banks abroad must be reported to the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in any foreign currency, but they are not permitted to hold accounts in Aruban florins. 1 On January 1,1986, the island of Aruba, which was formerly a part of the Netherlands Antilles, became a separate non- metropolitan territory within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 2Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Netherlands Antillean guilders, pounds sterling, Suriname guilders, and Swiss francs. Resident Foreign Bank Accounts The opening and maintaining of foreign bank accounts by residents is subject to a central bank license. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products, for which locally pro- duced substitutes exist, are subject to quotas. Cer- tain products are subject to import surcharges. Pay- ments for imports may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Depending on the amount, payments for invis- ibles may require a license from the Central Bank. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency that they brought in. The export of Aruban bank notes is prohibited. Transfers of profits and dividends are permitted by the Central Bank upon application. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require a license. Export proceeds must be converted into local currency within eight working days, credited to a foreign currency ac- count with a local bank, or credited with a foreign bank with the approval of the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The regulations governing export proceeds also apply to proceeds from invisibles. Nonresidents may bring in any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or bank notes denominated in foreign currency. Capital The following transactions require a central bank license: (1) purchases from and sales to nonresi- dents of domestic securities; (2) purchases of of- ficially listed foreign securities with values exceed- ing Af. 50,000 a year; and (3) purchases from and sales to nonresidents of foreign real estate. 18 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Australia is the Australian Dol- lar.1 The Australian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the ex- change market, but the Reserve Bank of Australia retains discretionary power to intervene in the for- eign exchange market. On December 30, 1988, the closing buying and selling rates in terms of the U.S. dollar were $ A 1.168 = US$1 and $ A 1.169 = US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may deal among themselves and with their customers at mu- tually negotiated rates for both spot and forward transactions in any currency, in respect of trade- and non-trade-related transactions. The Reserve Bank sets a limit for each dealer's net open overnight foreign exchange exposure. Foreign currency fu- tures contracts and options on futures are traded on the Sydney Futures Exchange. As part of Australia's current foreign exchange arrangements, a range of outward foreign exchange transactions is subject to procedural requirements in order to meet the Government's taxation- screening policies. A taxation clearance certificate issued by the Australian Taxation Office must be shown to authorized foreign exchange dealers be- fore foreign exchange or other means of payment are made available for certain transactions with resi- dents of designated countries and areas2 and for emigrants' remittances in excess of $ A 50,000 or its foreign currency equivalent to all countries. In re- spect of countries that are not designated for taxation-screening purposes, foreign exchange dealers are obliged to require that their customers complete declaration forms for outflows of more than $A 50,000 or its foreign currency equivalent and which relate to investments, gifts, sustenance and trust distributions, loans or loan repayments, travel expenditure, remittances connected with aThe Australian dollar also circulates in several other coun- tries, including Kiribati, Nauru, and Tuvalu. 2These are listed as The Bahamas, Bermuda, British Channel Islands, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Gibraltar, Gre- nada, Hong Kong, Isle of Man, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Lux- embourg, Nauru, the Netherlands Antilles, Panama, Switzer- land, Tonga, and Vanuatu. futures operations overseas, and payments of inter- est, dividends, service fees, or royalties. Australia formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 1, 1965. Administration of Control The Reserve Bank is responsible for administer- ing the remaining exchange control restrictions un- der Australia's current foreign exchange arrange- ments. (Most exchange controls were abolished on December 12, 1983.) Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in Australian currency or in any foreign cur- rency,3 but purchases and sales of foreign currency by persons in Australia in exchange for Australian currency must be undertaken with an authorized foreign exchange dealer in Australia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may establish and fund accounts without formality; funds may also be repatriated without restriction. Accounts may be denominated in foreign currency, but purchases and sales of for- eign currency must be handled through authorized dealers in Australia. Special requirements apply in the case of interest-bearing investments by foreign government monetary authorities (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments Nearly all goods may be imported without import licenses, and no restrictions are imposed on pay- ments for imports. Import-licensing restrictions are imposed on a small range of secondhand equip- ment, including ships and aircraft, although not for exchange control purposes. An embargo exists for imports of sugar, although this has been tempo- rarily suspended and is expected to be replaced with a tariff from July 1989. Tariff quotas apply to most textiles, clothing, and footwear, but they are expected to be phased out by 1995 through reductions in the out-of-quota tariff rates. Import 3Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 AUSTRALIA restrictions are maintained mainly for reasons of health, community protection, or quality standards. Tariffs on manufactured imports—except those subject to separate industry plans and prior tariff- phasing arrangements4—and certain agricultural products are subject to a phased tariff reduction program announced in the May 1988 Economic Statement. Tariff rates above 15 percent are to be reduced in annual steps to 15 percent, while rates of 15 percent and less (but greater than 10 percent) will be reduced to 10 percent. Tariffs on passenger mo- tor vehicles will be reduced to 35 percent by 1992. The revised Customs Tariff (Antidumping) Act of 1988 has simplified the antidumping procedures. It provides for stricter conditions for demonstrating the causal link between dumping and material in- jury to the domestic industry. Antidumping duties and undertakings will lapse automatically after three years, although the domestic industry may renew the antidumping action. Antidumping ac- tions may be introduced retrospectively or in antic- ipation of the arrival of dumped or subsidized goods. An antidumping authority has been estab- lished to advise the Government on these actions, although the Australian Customs Service remains responsible for the preliminary investigation of a complaint. Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations Trade Agreement (ANZCERTA), almost all goods imported from New Zealand enter duty free, and quantitative restric- tions are being phased out to achieve free trade in goods by July 1, 1990. Currently, imports of motor vehicles from New Zealand are subject to a customs tariff that is to be abolished by January 1, 1990. Quotas on imports of clothing from New Zealand are separate from global quotas; quotas on textiles and footwear are to be abolished on March 1, 1989. Imports of liquid milk and cheese from New Zea- land are currently restricted but will be fully liber- alized by July 1,1990. Antidumping actions against imports from New Zealand will not be taken after July 1, 1990; they are expected to be replaced by actions to be taken under domestic trade practices legislation if it is considered necessary to redress unfair competition. The South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Agreement provides for duty-free and unrestricted access to Australian and New Zealand markets for most of the products exported by the member countries.5 Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted, provided that the Government's taxation-screening requirements are met. (See section on Exchange Arrangement, above.) Travelers may take out of Australia unlimited amounts of foreign currency or Australian currency instruments purchased from authorized foreign ex- change dealers, and up to $A 5,000 in Australian notes and coins in any combination. Travelers who are not residents of Australia may also take out without formality any amount in foreign currency or Australian currency instruments (other than Australian currency notes and coins), provided that they brought them into Australia. The ANZCERTA also provides, through a protocol, for the liberalization of the trade in services between Australia and New Zealand, subject to the foreign investment policies of both countries. In addition, certain service activities are excluded from the agreement. Among Australia's list of exclusions are telecommunications, banking, airport services and aviation, coastal shipping, media, and postal ser- vices. The operation of the trade-in-services pro- tocol is to be reviewed before December 31, 1990. Exports and Export Proceeds Export permits or licenses are not required except in respect of goods covered by the Export Control Act, Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations, Protection of Movable Cultural Heritage Act, and the Wildlife Protection Regulation of Exports and Imports Act. There are no formalities covering the disposal of export proceeds. Under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regula- tions, the export of specified minerals, metals, hy- drocarbons, and nuclear-sensitive material is pro- hibited unless permission is granted by the Minister for Primary Industries and Energy or an authorized person. Exports are controlled for different objectives for individual mineral commodities. Depending on the commodity, the objectives may be one or more of the following: (1) pricing and other contractual con- ditions are fair in relation to the market, consistent with maximizing the trade benefits for Australia; industries subject to an industry plan involving import pro- tection are passenger motor vehicles, textiles, clothing, and foot- wear. The shipbuilding industry is assisted by production sub- sidies. Chemicals and plastics, for which tariffs have been phased down to 15 percent, will remain at that level. 5The islands under this arrangement are those constituting the South Pacific Forum (in addition to Australia and New Zea- land)—Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 21 (2) exports are in compliance with Australia's nu- clear policy, international obligations, and bilateral agreements where applicable —e.g., the Non- Proliferation Treaty, as well as bilateral agreements between Australia and each of its nuclear customer countries; (3) supplies are adequate for domestic requirements; and (4) the provisions of the Environ- ment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act and the Australian Heritage Commission Act are met. There are controls on exports of alumina, bauxite, coal, iron ore, uranium, and other materials of nu- clear significance. On completion of negotiations, exporters of these minerals are required to seek approval from the Department of Primary Indus- tries and Energy. For negotiation of contracts for the sale of uranium, they must meet the requirements of the Ministerial Determinations issued to the three producers. For exports of monazite and xenotime, additional requirements must be met under the Government's nuclear safeguards policy before ex- port approval can be given. Exports of copper scrap and copper alloy scrap are embargoed, and quotas apply to secondary copper ingots and other basic shapes made from scrap material. Export of pe- troleum and petroleum products to South Africa is prohibited. With respect to agricultural commodities, the Government follows the general principle that ex- porters should be the main negotiators for export contracts and that the market should determine prices. Generally, the export control power is not used but is held in reserve to be used if and when the need arises, consistent with the need to protect the national interest and to meet market access lim- itations imposed by importing countries. There are also provisions for government control over the export of defense material. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings of invisibles in foreign currencies may be retained or sold for Australian dollars. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Provided that the procedural requirements of the Government's taxation-screening arrangements are met, the vast majority of transactions involving transfers of capital from Australia and nonresident investments at interest in Australia may be under- taken without formality. The only exceptions are that borrowings in Australia by foreign govern- ments, their agencies not similar to private sector commercial entities, and international organiza- tions are not permitted. Moreover, while there are no limits applying to the interest-bearing invest- ments by international organizations or by foreign central banks and other monetary authorities, the Reserve Bank may determine an amount up to which the investment by foreign government mon- etary institutions (which also undertake commercial investments) will be regarded as having been un- dertaken for official foreign reserve management purposes and hence qualify for sovereign immunity from Australian taxation. All investing agencies are expected to be stable holders of Australian dollar assets and to keep the Reserve Bank advised of their Australian dollar portfolio. Direct investment in Australia by nonresidents is subject to the Government's foreign investment policy, which is based on the recognition that for- eign investment makes a substantial contribution to the development of Australia's industries and re- sources. The Government's policy is therefore to welcome and encourage long-term direct foreign investments that have beneficial economic effects and are consistent with the needs of the Australian community. The policy is concerned primarily with direct foreign investments that have significant im- plications for the levels of foreign ownership and foreign control of Australian industries and re- sources. Portfolio (debt and equity) investments are not subject to the policy. The guidelines for the policy on direct foreign investments are administered by the Foreign In- vestment Review Board, which is the advisory body to the Government on foreign investment matters. Proposals subject to review include those falling within the scope of the Foreign Takeovers Act of 1975; those involving the establishment of a new business or project, irrespective of size, in the me- dia and civil aviation sectors, or in other sectors where the total amount of the investment is $A 10 million or more (including diversification into activities not previously undertaken directly in Aus- tralia and new projects in tourism, mining, and primary industries; those involving direct invest- ment by foreign governments or their agencies (ex- cluding investments related to their official repre- sentation); and proposals to acquire real estate and undertake real estate development projects. The Foreign Takeovers Act of 1975 is concerned with the acquisition by foreign interests of com- panies or businesses operating in Australia. The Act requires nonresidents, non-resident-controlled cor- porations or businesses, and companies (including Australian companies) in which nonresidents have a substantial shareholding to notify the Govern- ment of proposals to acquire, or increase, a substan- tial interest in a company. A substantial foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 AUSTRALIA interest is an interest of 15 percent or more in the ownership or voting power of a corporation or busi- ness by a single foreign interest, either alone or together with associates, or an interest of 40 percent or more in aggregate in the ownership or voting power of a corporation or business by two or more foreign interests and their associates. New investments (and acquisitions of existing businesses) in the industrial sectors are normally approved unless judged contrary to the national interest. Proposals involving civil aviation and the media are examined on a case-by-case basis, and acquisitions of existing mining (non-oil and gas) operations over $A 5 million are approved if suffi- cient economic benefits can be demonstrated. Cer- tain restrictions apply to investment in developed residential real estate. After inviting applications for banking licenses, the Government selected 16 foreign banks in 1985 to establish banking operations in Australia. It is not envisaged that further such invitations will be is- sued to foreign interests. The Government's policy on uranium projects provides for no further ura- nium mines to be developed and for further stages of the nuclear fuel cycle to be prohibited. Australia's foreign investment policy also provides an incentive for the "naturalization" of partly foreign-owned companies. The naturaliza- tion process is an entirely voluntary one and may be entered into by companies that choose to increase the level of Australian participation in their Aus- tralian operations. Companies that elect to partici- pate in the naturalization arrangements are entitled to certain benefits while they are naturalizing. In particular, they are accorded prior credit for achiev- ing majority Australian ownership, thereby facili- tating their participation in mining projects and ventures that are subject to the Australian equity participation guidelines. In the application of the policies, every effort is made to avoid unnecessary interference in normal commercial processes, and recognition is given to the special characteristics and circumstances that may arise in individual cases. The policy is nondiscriminatory as to the country of origin of investors, and the Foreign In- vestment Review Board, which acts as an indepen- dent source of advice to the Government on foreign investment matters, stands ready to assist and ad- vise foreign investors in the formulation of their proposals. Krugerrand, subject to normal customs pro- cedures. However, the export of Australian gold coin in excess of five of the $A 200 denomination and in excess of five of the Australian nugget gold coins in any 12-month period requires reserve bank approval. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments April 13. Tariff quotas on passenger motor vehi- cles were abolished, and customs tariff rates are to be reduced to 35 percent by 1992. May 25. Wide-ranging customs tariff reductions were announced in the Economic Statement. They included general rate reductions with most customs tariffs on manufactured goods and certain agri- cultural products to be reduced to 15 or 10 percent by July 1, 1992. A limited liberalization was also introduced in the arrangements for textiles, clothing, and footwear. July 1. Customs tariffs on imports of goods from New Zealand were eliminated under the ANZCERTA. August 18. The ANZCERTA was revised to provide for a more rapid liberalization of the trade in goods and services between Australia and New Zealand. In particular, it provides for free trade in goods by July 1, 1990. September 1. Revised procedures were introduced under the Antidumping Authority Act of 1988 to reduce administrative and legal delays in anti- dumping investigations. December 20. The embargo on sugar imports, scheduled to be replaced with tariffs in 1989, was temporarily suspended. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The controls on the exports of pe- troleum and petroleum products were lifted, except for the ban on exports to South Africa. June 14. The controls on exports of defense-related goods were relaxed to apply only to goods of a military and/or lethal nature. June 24. A bilateral agreement was concluded with Japan providing for the liberalization of the Japanese market for beef and an expansion of Aus- tralian exports. Capital Gold There are no restrictions on residents owning, buying, or selling gold and gold coin in Australia. Residents may export and import gold other than January 22. The guideline for Australians to hold at least 50 percent of the equity and voting power in new mining development projects exceeding $A 10 million was waived for new oil and gas projects. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Austria is the Austrian Schilling. Without assuming any formal obligations, the au- thorities aim at maintaining a stable relation with the currencies participating in the European Mone- tary System (EMS). Forward transactions are per- mitted up to 18 months, and they must be related to an authorized transaction in the case of residents. Forward premiums and discounts are, in principle, left to the interplay of market forces, and the Aus- trian National Bank does not intervene in the for- ward market or provide cover for commercial banks' forward positions. On December 30, 1988, the au- thorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S 12.48 and S 12.49, respectively, per US$1. There are no exchange taxes or subsidies. Austria formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Austrian National Bank administers ex- change control and issues exchange licenses where required. Most exchange transactions are effected through Austrian banks authorized to implement the exchange control regulations. The customs authorities issue freely and without delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods/Licenses, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained from the relevant ministry, namely, the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs (Licensing Office) for industrial products, or the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for agricultural products. For products falling under state monopolies, licenses are issued by the Minis- try of Finance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Schilling Accounts. The exchange control regulations are generally based on the distinction between member countries of the IMF or the Organization for Eco- nomic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and other countries. im Accounts for nonresidents residing in member countries of the IMF or the OECD, and Blocked Accounts for nonresidents residing in other countries. Free Schilling Accounts may be freely opened by Austrian credit institutions on behalf of nonresi- dents without any formality other than a check by the credit institution of the nonresident status of the beneficiary when the schilling funds are obtained from the selling of freely convertible foreign curren- cies at a domestic credit institution. Such accounts may be freely credited with proceeds from the sale of convertible currencies by a nonresident to the Austrian National Bank, or to an authorized bank, as well as with payments permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or individual autho- rization. The accounts may be freely debited for payments to Austrian residents, who must, however, apply for individual licenses if they are to receive loans from nonresidents. Balances may be freely converted into any foreign currency. Trans- fers between these accounts are free. Interim Accounts and Blocked Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonresidents. General licenses permit their use for payments for many current and some capital transactions. The transfer abroad of funds in Interim Accounts and Blocked Accounts is subject to an individual license. Usually, licenses are granted freely if the funds belong to residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Nonresidents may also maintain nonresident ac- counts in convertible foreign currencies. These ac- counts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts and are subject to the same conditions. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annexes to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country without quantitative restriction. All goods included in the Annexes require licenses, but most are free of quan- titative restriction. For many goods, licenses are granted by customs at the time of clearance, irre- spective of the country they are imported from.1 Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident ac- counts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts, Inter- 1 Goods liberalized for import from a given group of countries may be freely imported from any country in the group, provided that the country of exportation and the country of production of the goods involved are in the same group. 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 24 AUSTRIA Nearly all imports from General Agreement on Tar- iffs and Trade (GATT) countries, their associated territories, and some other countries2 are liber- alized. Austria's GATT liberalization is applied worldwide, except in respect of certain textiles and clothing as defined in Article XII, Section 1 of the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Tex- tiles. The importation of coffee is governed by the international agreement for this commodity. Non- liberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures: namely, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, and discretionary licensing. State trading covers tobacco in any form, ethyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas apply to specified imports from GATT countries; such quotas apply only to potatoes, wheat, cornstarch, preserved meat, wine, and certain medicaments. Discretionary individual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above, in- cluding imports of certain textiles from specified countries. Licenses are usually granted if the im- ports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries. Grains, milk and butter, and cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, and horses for slaughter and products from these animals for human consumption are imported in accordance with a special system of controls and regulations maintained under the Agricultural Mar- keting Law and the law governing livestock farming and trading, and the marketing of livestock produce (Viehwirtschaftsgesetz). Certain agricultural products are subject to import levies. In some cases, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received export certificates from the countries of their trading partners. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six 2The full list is as follows: Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, The Bahamas, Bahrain, Ban- gladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark (including Faeroe Islands and Greenland), Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Gre- nada, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Democratic Kampuchea, Kenya, Kiribati, Korea, Kuwait, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Rwanda, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Tan- zania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Tuvalu, Uganda, U.S.S.R., United Arab Emirates, United King- dom, United States, Uruguay, Vanuatu, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. months, but this period may be extended for peri- ods of three months at a time. Payments for imports from, and originating in, countries with which Aus- tria makes settlements in convertible currencies do not require exchange licenses. Under the 1982 Customs Preference Act, which covers the second ten-year period of the Austrian Scheme of Gener- alized Preferences, special treatment is provided for imports from the 31 least-developed countries as defined by the UN General Assembly; the list of products eligible for preferential treatment has also been extended under the act. Payments for Invisibles With a few exceptions, involving transport and insurance transactions, residents are permitted to conclude transactions involving current invisibles with residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Most transactions in current in- visibles that involve payments to residents of other countries (e.g., freight, commissions, and the cost of assembly and repairs) are covered by general licenses; for the remaining transactions, individual licenses are required. Payments on account of generally authorized in- visibles to nonresidents may be made freely, provided that no capital transfer is involved. Other payments abroad up to S 10,000 (up to S 5,000 to non-IMF and non-OECD countries) may be made freely and at any time. The remaining payments on account of invisibles to countries other than mem- bers of the IMF and the OECD with which settle- ments are made in convertible currencies require special licenses. Residents traveling abroad for tourism purposes may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks or obtain short-term advances from nonresi- dents in multilateral countries without limitation; if the amount exceeds the equivalent of S 50,000,3 the Austrian National Bank must be informed. In addi- tion, Austrian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for accommodation and food, as well as transportation. The use of credit cards abroad for travel expenditures is permitted. Persons leaving Austria may take with them S 50,0003 in Austrian bank notes and coin and any amount in foreign bank notes and coin. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained from the relevant 3With effect from February 1, 1989, the limit was raised to S 100,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 25 ministry or, at the time of clearance, from the customs authorities. For most exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant bilateral trade agreements and the fulfillment of quotas es- tablished in accordance with such agreements, and for the needs of the Austrian economy. Export proceeds may either be surrendered or deposited in accounts with authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for authorized payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be de- clared within eight days of the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be deposited with an authorized bank and subsequently are used in the same way as proceeds accruing from exports. Persons entering Austria may bring in Austrian or foreign bank notes and coin without limit. Capital4 The acquisition by nonresidents of Austrian se- curities, shares, and participations in Austrian com- panies, and Austrian real estate is covered by a general license. The acquisition of real estate is, however, subject to the approval of the local au- thorities. Direct investments by nonresidents, ex- cept in the form of loans for nonproductive pur- poses (unless loans are granted at preferential terms and do not exceed three times the paid-up equity of the lender), are also permitted by general authoriza- tion, if made with convertible currencies or from free or originally owned blocked schilling balances; for investments financed in other ways, authoriza- tion is granted on the merits of each case. Foreign banks cannot establish branches in Aus- tria, except through an enterprise incorporated in Austria. Nonresidents are also not permitted to in- vest in the auditing, mining, energy, transport, or legal sectors, and they are not permitted to acquire a share of 25 percent or more in ships registered in Austria. Loans and credits extended by nonresidents to residents, including those in schillings from Free Schilling Accounts, at present require prior ap- proval by the National Bank and, in many cases, are restricted. Approvals are granted generally, but not exclusively, for (1) investment credits for productive 4 As of February 1, 1989, virtually all restrictions on long-term capital transfers were abolished. The only remaining restrictions concern (1) the issuance of domestic bonds on foreign capital markets and foreign bonds on domestic capital markets; and (2) the acquisition of real estate by foreigners and nonresidents. enterprises, (2) import and export finance, and (3) loans from nonresident relatives to residents. Import credit with a maturity customary in the trade concerned is licensed freely. The short-term foreign assets and liabilities of authorized banks in convertible currencies are not subject to limitation. The National Bank licenses financial loans with maturities of more than one year to nonresidents only to the extent of funds made available through the redemption of such loans outstanding at the end of December of the previous year, plus an additional amount. Mortgage loans, export finance credits, and loans to Austrian subsidiaries abroad are not subject to this limit. A number of authorized banks are permitted to accept deposits in convertible currencies from abroad for interbank on-lending abroad at maturities of up to five years. Major banks are permitted to borrow from nonresidents in foreign currency over the me- dium and long term. Transactions and operations mentioned in the fol- lowing three paragraphs are licensed upon docu- mentation, provided that they are concluded with residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. The National Bank permits the transfer abroad of (1) proceeds f rom the liquidation of various foreign investments in Austria (shares or participations in Austrian enterprises, Austrian securities, and real estate in Austria); and (2) repayments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants and payments due to nonresidents on account of dow- ries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs are permitted. Residents may also grant loans to nonresident relatives, provided that the lender draws on his own resources. Residents are allowed, for purposes of direct in- vestment, to acquire participation rights in foreign companies, associations, and other enterprises, and to establish, acquire, or extend foreign agencies or individually owned firms; earnings accruing from such investment usually may be reinvested. Resi- dents are also permitted to acquire real estate abroad for the purpose of establishing a secondary residence that is intended for the personal use of the buyer within one year, to grant commercial or in- vestment credits (provided that, in the latter case, the proceeds of the credit are used within Austria), to grant direct investment loans (provided that the resident can actually exert influence on the manage- ment of the nonresident enterprise), and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 26 AUSTRIA Domestic banks may grant short-term foreign cur- rency loans to nonresidents against collateral in se- curities, if the proceeds are to be used either for the purchase of securities to be deposited as collateral with the lending institution or, after conversion into Austrian schillings, for authorized payments to res- idents. Domestic insurance companies may con- clude life insurance contracts in Austria with nonresidents. Residents are allowed to purchase from nonresi- dents, without restriction, Austrian securities and foreign securities issued in member countries of the IMF or the OECD with which settlements take place in convertible currencies and which are quoted in an official securities market;5 for foreign securities and Austrian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, with certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of securities listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange), the securities purchased must be kept with such banks. Payments for these purchases to nonresi- dents may be made in convertible currencies. Resi- dents may sell foreign securities and Austrian exter- nal bonds to nonresidents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and, for securities deposited with Austrian authorized banks, only through such banks. Gold Transactions in gold (excluding jewelry and medallions, which are considered jewelry) are gov- erned by the Foreign Exchange Law. The National Bank is authorized by this law to deal in gold as defined therein; the Bank has granted a number of general permissions widely liberalizing the domes- tic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coin, except in transactions with monetary au- thorities of other countries or with international fi- nancial institutions. The Bank has authorized credit institutions, exchange offices, and coin dealers to buy or sell in Austria on their own behalf or on behalf of their customers (including nonresidents) gold coin that is not legal tender; the prices are based on those for coin and unmanufactured gold in free markets abroad. A general license also permits other residents to purchase and sell among them- 5The general license does not apply to the purchase by resi- dents from nonresidents of securities of a participating nature in whatever legal form (including shares) that are issued by foreign investment funds or by similar institutions of whatever kind that assemble assets for the purpose of risk spreading. Individual licenses are issued automatically when the purchase takes place on a recognized foreign stock exchange or when the issuing institution is subject to adequate surveillance. selves, in Austria, and against payment in schillings gold coin that is not legal tender. The Mint releases certain types of gold coin (re- strikes) to authorized credit institutions for resale to the public.6 It has also issued a commemorative gold coin with a face value of S 1,000, which is legal tender. Residents may hold gold in any form, in- cluding bars, in Austria, and they may acquire in Austria any gold coin that is not legal tender and any gold medals or medallions; furthermore, do- mestic trading between residents in gold with a fineness of less than 0.585 is unrestricted. With the exception of coin, medals, and gold with a fineness of less than 0.585, the acquisition from residents of gold subject to the Foreign Exchange Law is re- served for the monetary authorities, authorized in- dustrial users, dentists, and jewelers; the Mint, gold refiners, and jewelers are permitted to trade or ex- change gold in any form among themselves. Do- mestic sales of gold coins that are not legal tender are subject to a value-added tax of 20 percent. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the license is issued either by the Ministry for Economic Affairs to industrial users or by the customs office concerned, which issues licenses automatically for certain gold imports within its jurisdiction. Where this law does not require an import license (e.g., for the import of gold bars), the Foreign Exchange Law prescribes a license issued by the National Bank covering the purchase of gold. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require authorization by the National Bank; the Bank has issued a general license permitting nonresident travelers to take out coin that is not legal tender up to a weight of 200 grams a person a trip and allowing resident travelers to spec- ified member countries to export such coin up to a value of S 10,000 a person a trip. The National Bank's imports and exports do not require import, exchange, or export licenses. Commercial imports of jewelry and of articles containing a minor amount of gold, such as watches, are liberalized, licenses being issued automatically by the customs au- thorities; commercial exports of a number of such articles, however, must be licensed by the Ministry for Economic Affa irs. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 6 As of January 1,1989, the Mint was acquired by the Austrian National Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the The Bahamas is the Bahamian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, at B$l = US$1. The U.S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are B$1.0025 and B$1.0040, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the pound ster- ling are also officially quoted, the buying rate being based on the New York market midrate, and the selling rate, 0.5 percent above the buying rate. The Central Bank of The Bahamas deals only with com- mercial banks. For transactions with the public, commercial banks are authorized to charge a com- mission of 0.50 percent buying and 0.75 percent selling, per US$1, and 0.50 percent buying or selling per £ stg. 1. These charges are additional to the Central Bank's charges. A stamp tax of B$0.10 is applied to all outward remittances when the amount is B$30 or less. A further tax of B$0.10 is levied on every additional B$30 or fraction thereof. There is also a market in which "investment cur- rency"1 may be negotiated between residents through an investment currency dealer at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market rate. Commercial banks may provide forward cover for residents of The Bahamas where the resident is due to receive or has to pay foreign currency under a firm contractual commitment. Commercial banks may not, however, sell foreign currency spot to be held on account in cover of fu ture requirements unless the Central Bank's permission has been given. Authorized dealers may deal in foreign cur- rency forward with nonresidents without prior ap- proval from the Central Bank. Commercial banks may deal among themselves forward at market rates and must ensure when carrying out all forward cover arrangements that their open position carried either spot or forward does not exceed the equiv- 1This is foreign currency in respect of which there is general or specific central bank permission that it may be retained and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permission may exist in respect of foreign currency accruing to residents of The Bahamas from the sale or redemption of foreign currency se- curities or the sale, liquidation, redemption, or realization of property, or of direct investments outside The Bahamas. The use of investment currency is prescribed for the purchase from non- residents of foreign currency securities and the making of direct investments outside The Bahamas. alent of B$500,000 long or short. There are no for- ward cover arrangements in the official sector. The Bahamas formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 5, 1973. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments; the approval authority for import payments, travel facilities, and cash gifts is not delegated, except in the Family Islands.2 Im- port and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, arms and ammunition, and, in cer- tain cases, industrial gold. The Department of Agri- culture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and conch, and the Police Department is- sues import and export licenses for arms and ammunition. Prescription of Currency The exchange control system of The Bahamas makes no distinction between foreign territories. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or in Bahamian dollars through an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may freely open External Ac- counts denominated in Bahamian dollars for winter residents and for persons with residency permits who are not gainfully employed in The Bahamas. With the prior approval of the Central Bank, autho- rized banks may also open External Accounts in Bahamian dollars for nonresident companies that have local expenses in The Bahamas and for non- resident investors. External Accounts in Bahamian dollars are normally funded entirely from foreign currency originating outside The Bahamas, but in- come on registered investments may also be cred- ited to these accounts with the Central Bank's 2 Beginning in June 1988, the Central Bank established a branch of its Exchange Control Department in Grand Bahama to serve the foreign exchange needs of residents in that area. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Bahamian dollar. 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 28 THE BAHAMAS approval. Balances may be converted freely into foreign currency and transferred abroad.4 Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are designated Blocked Accounts. These are held mainly by emigrants. Where the value of an emi- grant's assets exceeds B$25,000, the excess is cred- ited to a Blocked Account. Balances on Blocked Ac- counts are transferable through the official exchange market after four years or through the investment currency market at any time; they may also be invested, with the Central Bank's approval, in certain resident-held assets or be spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain commodities is pro- hibited or controlled because of health, social, or humanitarian reasons. All other goods may be im- ported without a license. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for making payments for imports, irrespective of origin;5 this approval is nor- mally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. Import duties vary from zero to 200 percent, depending on the type of good. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax at a rate of 1.5 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on current payments. Authorized dealers can make payments to nonresi- dents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles within specified limits. Such pay- ments include freight, ships' disbursements, com- missions, royalties, education, and insurance pay- ments. Residents are entitled, on application to the Central Bank, to a foreign currency travel allowance of the equivalent of B$l,000 a person a year for tourist travel and of B$5,000 a person a year for genuine business or professional travel. The al- lowance of B$l,000 for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which are normally obtained against payment in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in The Bahamas. Applications for for- eign exchange in excess of these amounts must be referred to the Central Bank, which approves bona 4Persons of foreign nationality who have been granted "tempo- rary resident" status are treated in some respects as nonresidents but are not permitted to hold External Accounts in Bahamian dollars. 5Except in the Family Islands, where this authority is dele- gated to clearing bank branches. fide applications. Foreign exchange facilities ob- tained for travel may not be retained abroad or be used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused balance must be surrendered within a week of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one week of his return to The Bahamas. Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an education allowance of up to B$l 0,000 a person an academic year is normally granted upon applica- tion. Applications for facilities in excess of this amount are referred to the Central Bank. Tempo- rary residents may, with the approval of the Central Bank, remit up to 50 percent of their wages and salaries, but where commitments outside The Bahamas are larger than 50 percent of wages and salaries, additional amounts may be remitted. Tem- porary residents may also repatriate all of their ac- cumulated savings resulting from their employ- ment in The Bahamas. A traveler may take out Bahamian bank notes not exceeding B$70 in value; Bahamian travelers may not take out notes of any other country, except with the specific approval of the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, and arms and ammunition. The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six months of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect without delay all amounts due to them from nonresidents and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an authorized dealer without delay, but these require- ments are seldom enforced. There are no restric- tions on the import of foreign bank notes. The im- port of domestic bank notes is subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Capital All capital transfers to countries outside The Bahamas require exchange control approval, and outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers do not require exchange control approval, although the subsequent utilization of the funds in The Bahamas may require authorization. The permission of the Central Bank is required in respect of any action whereby nonresidents acquire control of or participate in an incorporated company ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE BAHAMAS 29 controlled by residents. Resident individuals and companies require the specific permission of the Central Bank to maintain foreign currency bank accounts.6 The use of official exchange for direct investment abroad is limited to B$100,000 or 30 percent of the total cost of the investment, whichever is greater, for investments from which the additional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of payments from export receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the investment will at least equal the total amount of investment and will continue thereafter. Investments abroad that do not meet the above cri- teria may be financed by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms subject to individual approval by the Central Bank, the purchase of foreign currency in the investment currency market, or the use of retained profits of foreign subsidiary companies. Permission is not given for investments that are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. In principle, inward investment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Bahamian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a nonresident. Special procedures apply to invest- ments in the form of purchase of real property, as specified under the Immovable Property (Acquisi- tion by Foreign Persons) Act, 1981, which came into effect on November 1, 1983: foreigners intending to purchase land must make application to the Foreign Investments Board, a group of designated ministers of the Government. If such application is approved, payment for the purchase may be made either in Bahamian dollars from an External Account or in foreign currency. For all investments with approved status, permis- sion is given upon application for the transfer of profits and dividends representing earned trading profits and investment income. In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank to buy property outside The Bahamas; such purchases, if for personal use, can be made only with investment currency, and approval is lim- ited to one property for each family. Any incidental expenses connected with the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met with invest- ment currency; expenditures necessary for the maintenance of the property or arising directly from its ownership may, with permission, be met with foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. The transfer of legacies and inheritances due to nonresident beneficiaries under wills or intestacies of persons who were Bahamian residents at the time of their death is permitted. However, permission is not normally given for Bahamian residents to settle any property, other than by will, for the benefit of nonresidents, in line with the provisions of the Im- movable Property (Acquisition by Foreign Persons) Act, 1981. A resident may make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$l,000 a donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, with permission, in special circumstances. Foreign nationals domiciled in The Bahamas, even if considered resident for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a measure of exemp- tion from certain exchange control obligations, nota- bly with respect to the mandatory deposit of foreign currency securities and the surrender of certain other foreign capital assets. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian securities must pay for such purchases in Bahamian dollars from an External Account, in funds eligible for credit to an External Account, or in Bahamian dollars arising from the sale of foreign currency in the official for- eign exchange market; interest, dividends, and cap- ital payments on such securities may not be remit- ted outside The Bahamas unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Bahamian residents are not permitted to purchase foreign cur- rency securities with official exchange or out of ex- port proceeds or other current earnings; payment must be made with investment currency. All pur- chases, sales, and switches of foreign currency se- curities in The Bahamas and all switches in foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents, wher- ever the switch takes place, require permission from the Central Bank, and all transactions must take place through authorized agents.7 All foreign se- curities purchased by residents of The Bahamas must be held by or to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other former Sterling Area countries are considered foreign currency se- curities, and sales proceeds of such securities held by residents, if registered at the Central Bank by 6Banks and trusts established in The Bahamas are exempt from certain exchange control regulations, particularly with regard to their offshore operations. 7There are 12 banks and trust companies authorized to deal in Bahamian and foreign currency securities and to receive se- curities in deposit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 30 THE BAHAMAS December 31,1972, are eligible for sale in the invest- ment currency market; securities not so registered may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Residents leaving the country with the intention of residing permanently outside The Bahamas are redesignated upon departure as nonresidents. Un- der normal rules persons leaving The Bahamas to take up residence elsewhere may transfer, at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market, up to B$25,000 of their Bahamian dollar assets to the new country of residence and may also taCe normal household and personal effects with them. When the total value of their Bahamian dollar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is transferable through the official exchange market after four years, or through the investment currency market at any time. After a person's redesignation as a non- resident, income accruing from his assets remain- ing in The Bahamas is normally remittable at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. Residents other than authorized banks require permission to borrow foreign currency from non- residents, and authorized dealers are subject to ex- change control directions with regard to their lend- ing of foreign currency to residents. Residents also require permission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans by conver- sion of Bahamian dollars. When permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, such permission is normally conditional upon the currency being offered for sale without delay to an authorized dealer, unless the funds are required to meet payments to nonresidents for which per- mission has been specifically given. A resident company that is wholly owned by nonresidents is not normally allowed to raise work- ing capital in Bahamian dollars unless such funds are a small proportion of the total investment. If the company is partly owned by residents, the amount of such local currency borrowing is normally deter- mined in relation to the resident interest in the equity of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in The Bahamas require permission before they extend loans in domestic currency to any cor- porate body (other than a bank) that is resident in The Bahamas and is controlled by any means, whether directly or indirectly, by nonresidents. However, companies that are set up by nonresi- dents primarily to import and distribute products manufactured outside The Bahamas are not nor- mally allowed to borrow Bahamian dollars from res- idents either for fixed or working capital but must provide all their finance in foreign currency; bor- rowings in a foreign currency normally are permit- ted on application. Gold Residents of The Bahamas other than authorized dealers are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. Those residents, however, who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the approval of the Central Bank, meet their current industrial requirements. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coin. Com- mercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a license. There is no import duty on gold bullion or gold coin; however, an import duty of 35 percent is imposed on imports of gold jewelry from all sources. A 1.5 percent stamp tax payable to customs is also payable on commercial shipments of gold jewelry from any source. There is no restriction on residents' acquisition or retention of gold coin. The Bahamas has issued commemorative coins in de- nominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, B$250, B$l,000, and B$2,500 in gold, and B$10 and B$25 in silver; these are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bahrain is the Bahrain Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of BD 0.476190 = SDR 1. The exchange rate for the Bahrain dinar in terms of the SDR may be set within margins of plus or minus 7.25 percent of this fixed relationship. In practice, however, the Bahrain dinar has maintained a relatively stable relationship with the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and since December 1980, the exchange rate has remained unchanged at BD 1 = US$2.6596. With the appre- ciation of the U.S. dollar against other major curren- cies in the early 1980s, the exchange rate of the dinar in terms of the SDR remained outside the 7.25 per- cent margin throughout the period May 1981-June 1986. The exchange rate of the dinar in terms of the SDR returned to within the 7.25 percent margin in July 1986 and remained within this margin at end- December 1987. The middle rate of the Bahrain dinar for the U.S. dollar is quoted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency (BMA) and has remained un- changed since December 1980. The BMA provides daily recommended rates for banks dealing with the public for amounts up to BD 1,000 in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark, based on the latest available rates for the U.S. dollar against those currencies. On December 31, 1988, the BMA's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.375 and BD 0.377, respectively, per US$1. The BMA does not deal with the public. In their dealings with the public, commercial banks are required to use the BMA's rates for U.S. dollars, pounds ster- ling, and deutsche mark, but they are authorized to charge an exchange commission of 2 per mill (spe- cial rates of commission apply for transactions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and the New York market rate for the currency con- cerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official sector, while the BMA monitors forward exchange transactions of commercial banks through the open position of commercial banks' monthly returns. Bahrain formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from March 20, 1973. Administration of Control The Agency is the exchange control authority, but there is no exchange control legislation in Bahrain. No import or export licenses are required (except for arms and ammunition, television cameras, and al- coholic beverages). However, importers and export- ers must be registered with the commercial registry maintained by the Ministry of Commerce and Agri- culture and must be members of the Bahrain Cham- ber of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Other- wise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Offshore banking units are not normally permitted to hold resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel are prohibited, as are products manufactured by foreign companies that are blacklisted by the League of Arab States. Im- ports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, public policy, or se- curity. Imports of cultured pearls also are pro- hibited. Import licenses are required for arms and ammunition, television cameras, and alcoholic bev- erages. Rice and sugar are, in practice, imported only by the Bahrain Import-Export Company. The rates of customs tar iffs range between 5 percent and 10 percent on most commodities, except for a lim- ited range of domestically produced goods (includ- ing paper and plastic goods, medical equipment, furniture, and aluminum extrusions), which are subject to a 20 percent rate to be effective until the end of February 1989. The customs tariffs on alco- holic beverages and tobacco are 125 percent and 50 percent, respectively. Government procure- ments are required to give preference to goods pro- duced in Bahrain and within the member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC), provided that the prices of these goods are within specified margins of the prices of im- ported substitutes; the margins are 10 percent for 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 32 BAHRAIN goods produced in Bahrain and 5 percent for goods produced within the member countries of the GCC. Foreign exchange for payments in respect of permit- ted imports may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited, and exports of certain refined petroleum products to South Africa have been suspended. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahrain any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel. Profits from foreign invest- ments in Bahrain may be transferred abroad freely, with the exception that, under Article 72 of the Monetary Agency Law, the banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remittance of their profits. Licensed off- shore banking units may freely engage in transac- tions with nonresidents; transactions with residents are not normally permitted. The Ministry of Com- merce and Agriculture operates a center for the dissemination of information on the stock exchange. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10 percent customs duty but gold ingots are exempt. Brokerage business in gold (as well as other commodities) requires approval from the Bahrain Monetary Agency before registering with the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture; such business is subject to a minimum deposit require- ment equivalent in the case of gold to BD 3,000 or 10 percent of the contract value, whichever is higher. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The customs tariff on tobacco was raised from 25 percent to 50 percent, and on alco- holic beverages, from 100 percent to 125 percent. January 1. Preferential treatment was required to be given to goods produced in Bahrain or within the member countries of the GCC in government pro- curement if the prices of these goods were within specified margins of the prices of imported sub- stitutes (margins are 10 percent for goods produced in Bahrain and 5 percent for GCC goods produced in the member countries of the GCC). March 1. The temporary 20 percent customs tariff on 11 locally produced manufactured goods, which took effect on March 1, 1987, was extended until end-February 1989. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh Taka. The value of the taka in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined with reference to a weighted basket of currencies. On December 31, 1988, the official (spot) middle rate of the taka in terms of the U.S. dollar was Tk 32.27 = US$1. On December 30, 1988, the spot buying and selling rates of the Bangladesh Bank (the central bank) for authorized dealers were Tk 32.23 and Tk 32.31, respectively, per US$1. On the same date, the spot buying and selling rates (telegraphic transfers) of authorized dealers were Tk 32.1987 and Tk 32.3413, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are based on the daily closing rates of the U.S. dollar in New York for the currencies concerned. Different effective exchange rates arise from the operation of the Secondary Exchange Market (SEM), which comprises the Wage Earners' Scheme (WES) and the Export Performance Benefit (XPB) Scheme. Under the WES, foreign exchange earn- ings remitted by workers abroad, tourist receipts, and most service receipts are sold at a rate deter- mined by a committee of authorized foreign ex- change dealers (mainly banks) constituted by the Bangladesh Bank. Under the XPB Scheme, export- ers and certain indirect exporters of nontraditional items are eligible to receive an exchange rate pre- mium, which is set to equal the difference between the WES rate (in taka per U.S. dollar) and the official rate. Each eligible item receives a coefficient of ei- ther 40 percent, 70 percent, or 100 percent of the XPB, depending on that item's domestic value added and the priority that the Government places on encouraging its export. At the end of 1988, 76 items were eligible for 100 percent of the XPB, cover- ing domestic value added of 70 percent and above. A coefficient of 70 percent was given to 38 items. Other export products with a value added of be- tween 50 percent and 69 percent were also given a coefficient of 70 percent. However, electrical and engineering products, machine tools and equip- ment, cast iron products, household electrical ap- pliances, and electric cables with a value added of between 40 percent and 59 percent were also given a coefficient of 70 percent. Exports of garments and leather were subject to a schedule of coefficients. Garments received 70 percent XPB if they were made from imported raw materials, and 100 percent XPB if domestic materials were used. In case of leather items, the coefficients were 40 percent for products using imported raw materials and 100 per- cent for products using domestic materials. Seventy percent XPB was given to exports of intermediate textile products (i.e., fabric) and to domestic sales of intermediate products that were finished locally and then exported. All other nontraditional exports, except wet-blue leather, received 40 percent XPB. On December 31,1988, the middle exchange rate in the secondary market was Tk 32.925 per US$1. Forward facilities at authorized banks are avail- able in all approved foreign currencies and in cur- rencies of the member countries of the Asian Clear- ing Union (ACU),1 covering periods of up to six months for export proceeds and import payments and covering up to three months for remittances of surplus collection of foreign shipping companies and airlines. The authorized banks may in their turn take forward cover in the interbank market or from the Bangladesh Bank against transactions for which they have entered into forward contracts with their customers. Authorized banks may also take for- ward cover for one month from the Bangladesh Bank against sight export bills negotiated by them, and enter into forward contracts with their overseas branches/correspondents against underlying ex- port or import transactions. Authorized banks are permitted to retain relatively small working bal- ances with their foreign correspondents, and cur- rency swaps are not permitted unless they are against underlying approved commercial transac- tions. Forward transactions of the Bangladesh Bank are confined to purchases and sales of deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, U.S. dollars, and all currencies of the member countries of the ACU. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bangla- desh Bank in accordance with general policy formu- lated in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. The seven foreign and ten domestic commercial banks (of which three are nationalized), together with three joint-venture banks and four specialized 1 Members of the Asian Clearing Union are Bangladesh, Burma, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 34 BANGLADESH financial institutions, have been appointed autho- rized dealers (authorized banks) in foreign ex- change. The Chief Controller of Imports and Ex- ports of the Ministry of Commerce is responsible for registration of exporters and importers and for is- suance of the Import Policy Order (IPO). Registered importers can make their imports in terms of the IPO against letters of credit. Letters of credit autho- rization forms are issued by authorized dealers and a separate import license is not required. Certain trade transactions are conducted through state- trading agencies, including the Trading Corpora- tion of Bangladesh (TCB). Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are subject to ex- change control. Settlements with countries with which Bangladesh has commodity exchange agree- ments2 normally must be effected through noncon- vertible U.S. dollar or pound sterling accounts for goods and services specified in the agreements up to agreed value limits; settlement with these coun- tries can be made in convertible currencies for goods and services not specified in the agreements or beyond the value ceilings specified in the agree- ments. Payments to, and receipts from, the other member countries of the ACU in respect of current transactions must be effected in terms of the Asian Monetary Unit (AMU) through the Clearing Union.3 Settlements with other countries normally take place in convertible currencies and, in a few cases, through Nonresident Taka Accounts. Pay- ments for imports may be made to the country of origin of the goods or to any other country (with the exception of those countries from which importa- tion is prohibited); they may be made (1) in taka for credit to a nonresident bank account in Bangladesh of the country concerned; (2) in the currency of the country concerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely convertible foreign exchange or in taka from a Nonresident Taka Account. All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resident in countries outside Bangladesh are desig- nated Nonresident Accounts. All such accounts are 2Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslo- vakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 3The AMU is equivalent in value to the SDR and is used for recording transactions through the ACU. regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is a permanent resident.4 Nonresident Foreign Cur- rency Accounts may be opened by authorized dealers without prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank in respect of Bangladesh nationals/foreign na- tionals who reside abroad and in respect of foreign firms operating abroad. Specified debits and credits to Nonresident Accounts may be made by autho- rized dealers without the prior approval of the Ban- gladesh Bank during the absence of the account holder from Bangladesh. Certain other debits and credits may be made without the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank but are subject to reporting ex post. Convertible Taka Accounts. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission staffs, interna- tional nonprofit humanitarian organizations func- tioning in Bangladesh and their expatriate em- ployees, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh regardless of their status are allowed to maintain Convertible Taka Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with the pro- ceeds of inward remittances in convertible foreign exchange and may be debited freely and at any time for local disbursements in taka, as well as for remit- tances abroad in convertible currencies. Transfers between Convertible Taka Accounts are freely per- mitted. Foreign missions and embassies may open interest-bearing accounts, but the interest earned thereon can be disbursed only in local currency. Wage Earners' Scheme. Under the WES, Bangla- desh nationals and persons of Bangladesh origin who are working abroad are permitted to open For- eign Currency Accounts denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances in convertible curren- cies received from abroad through normal banking and postal channels; (2) proceeds of convertible cur- rencies (currency notes, traveler's checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holders, provided they were declared to customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; (3) transfers from other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the WES; and (4) transfers from Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. The accounts may be debited, without restriction, but subject to report- ing to the Bangladesh Bank, for the following pur- poses: (1) all local disbursements; (2) transfers to other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the 4The accounts of the United Nations and its agencies are treated as resident accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 35 WES; (3) payment for imports of specified goods against letters of credit; (4) payment of bank com- missions and other bank charges connected with imports; and (5) travel expenditures abroad for busi- ness or private purposes up to prescribed limits. For travel on private purposes, the upper limit is the equivalent of US$400 a person a year (regardless of the number of visits annually) for air travel to Bhutan, Burma, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka (but up to US$150 for overland travel to India); and US$1,800 a person a year and a max- imum of US$1,000 a trip for travel to other countries. Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. Bangladesh nationals residing abroad, foreign na- tionals, and foreign companies/firms registered and/or incorporated abroad, banks, and other fi- nancial institutions, including institutional inves- tors, may open interest-bearing Nonresident For- eign Currency Deposit Accounts, denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. These accounts, whose terms range from one month to one year, may be credited, in initial minimum amounts of US$1,000 or £ stg. 500 (US$25,000 for foreigners), with (1) remittances in convertible currencies, and (2) transfers from existing Foreign Currency Ac- counts maintained under the WES. The banks pay interest on balances in these accounts at Eurocur- rency deposit rates. The balance, including interest earned, may be transferred in foreign exchange by the account holder to his country of residence or anywhere he chooses; the account holder, if he is not otherwise ineligible under the WES, may also transfer the balance to any Foreign Currency Ac- count maintained under the WES. The balances in the accounts are freely convertible into taka at the SEM rate. The official rate for foreigners must be reported by banks monthly to the Bangladesh Bank and the accounts must be closed within one year or on maturity of the deposit, whichever is later, upon the taking up of permanent residence by the ac- count holder in Bangladesh. Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or with foreign aid, loans, and barter arrangements. Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports are guided by an annual import policy (IPO) announced by the Government. The IPO for the fiscal year 1988/89 (July to June) is based on two lists, the negative list and the re- stricted list, described according to the Harmonized System of Nomenclature and the Import Trade Con- trol (ITC) schedule. The negative list includes items in 189 out of 1,012 categories at the ITC four-digit level, for which importation is totally banned either for social or religious reasons or because similar items are locally produced. The IPO prohibits or restricts imports of some raw materials or inputs, certain textiles, factory rejects, goods of substan- dard quality, used items, and materials inimical to public order or religious beliefs. The restricted list includes items in 153 categories that may be im- ported only if certain conditions relating mainly to the nature of end users and quality standards are met. In addition, there are special negative lists for the jute and textile mills. Items not on these lists are freely importable through the SEM, provided that the importer has a valid import registration certifi- cate. Imports at the official exchange rate are subject to allocation on the basis of foreign exchange availability. With the exception of imports by government de- partments, letter of credit authorization forms (LCAFs) are required of all registered importers for all imports. Under the authority of the IPO issued by the Chief Controller, registered commercial im- porters are allowed to effect imports against LCAFs issued by authorized dealer banks without the need for an import license. For imports under the SEM Scheme, an importer is required to have a valid import registration certificate either as a commercial importer or industrial consumer or under the SEM Scheme. These documents are issued by a licensing office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Ex- ports. Single-country LCAFs are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments agreements and for imports under tied aid programs. LCAFs are otherwise valid worldwide, except that imports from Israel and South Africa and imports trans- ported on the flag vessels of Israel and South Africa are prohibited. For shipment of imports under cash and the SEM Scheme, the validity of LCAFs is as follows: (I) 11 months from the date of issuance/ registration of an LCAF for commercial items and industrial raw and packing materials; and (2) 17 months from the date of issuance/registration of an LCAF for the importation of capital machinery and spare parts. If these documents lapse for reasons beyond the control of the importer, they may be revalidated by the licensing authority. Authorized dealers may effect remittances within 12 months of the date of registration of an LCAF for the importa- tion of commercial items and industrial raw mate- rials and packing materials and within 18 months of the date of registration of an LCAF for the importa- tion of capital machinery and spare parts. If the importers require additional time to make remit- tances, then authorized dealers may allow such re- mittances only under the SEM Scheme. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 36 BANGLADESH Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable letters of credit. Under the SEM Scheme, a provision exists for the importation of machinery and equipment against letters of credit opened on a deferred-payment basis for up to 360 days. Raw materials may be imported under letters of credit on a deferred-payment basis up to 180 days. Recognized export-oriented ready- made garments and specialized textile and hosiery units operating under the bonded warehouse sys- tem may effect imports of their raw and packing materials by opening letters of credit on a deferred- payment basis up to 180 days against export letters of credit received by them. Public sector importers may import on a cash-against-documents basis, subject to authorization by the Bangladesh Bank. Imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers are governed by an entitlement system, based on the requirements for various industries during each import program period as established by the Director-General of Industries. Firms in the industrial sector are given an entitlement for importation of specified raw ma- terials and packing materials, and letter of credit authorization forms are issued on the basis of the entitlement. The entitlement system does not apply to raw materials and packing materials on the free list that are imported under the SEM Scheme. However, for items appearing on the restricted list, the entitlement system applies even in the case of imports under the SEM. Separately, industrial con- sumers may be issued with LCAFs for parts and accessories of machinery. Goods imported against LCAFs issued to industrial consumers must be used in the industry concerned and must not be sold or transferred without prior approval. Foreign exchange for authorized imports is provided automatically by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval by the Bangladesh Bank, which normally is given only for specialized or capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with autho- rized trade transactions are generally not restricted. Payments for most other invisibles require prior approval and are restricted. Applications for foreign exchange for business travel, medical treatment, and education abroad are considered on an individ- ual basis. Exporters with export earnings exceeding Tk 100 million during the preceding year are entitled to a maximum business travel allowance of US$25,000 a year. Exporters with export earnings exceeding Tk 50 million but not exceeding Tk 100 million in the preceding year are entitled to the allowance equiv- alent to 1 percent of the f .o.b. value of their exports, subject to a maximum of US$18,000 a year. Those with export earnings exceeding Tk 2.5 million but not exceeding Tk 50 million in the preceding year are also entitled to the allowance equivalent to 1 per- cent of the f .o .b. value of their exports, subject to a minimum of US$4,500 and a maximum of US$11,000 a year; exporters with a performance of up to Tk 2.5 million in the preceding year are al- lowed up to US$4,500 a year. New exporters are allowed US$90 a day, subject to a maximum of US$3,000 a year. All business travel allowance must be purchased at the SEM rate. For medical treat- ment the amount granted is the actual requirement, which must be purchased at the SEM rate, subject to the approval of the Bangladesh Bank. A Bangladesh national flying abroad is allowed to purchase for- eign exchange from a Foreign Currency Account under the WES, subject to certain limits (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Foreign nationals working in Bangladesh must obtain approval before making remittances abroad for family maintenance; such approval is usually granted for up to 50 percent of net salaries, subject to a maximum of £ stg. 200 a month (net of tax), if the terms of employment have been approved by the Government. Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign currency and traveler's checks they declared on en- try less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money changers; they may also, without obtaining the approval of the Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 6,000 into convertible foreign curren- cies at the time of their exit; if no declaration has been made, up to US$150 may be reconverted. Resi- dent travelers may take out foreign currency and traveler's checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they have been granted. A Bangladeshi or a foreign national may take out Tk 100 in domestic currency; otherwise, the export of Bangladesh cur- rency notes and coin is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. The proceeds from exports must be received within four months of shipment. Exports of ju te and ju te goods must be registered with the Bangladesh Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surren- dered, but Bangladesh nationals working abroad may retain their earnings in Foreign Currency Ac- counts or in Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 37 Accounts. Unless specifically exempted by the Ban- gladesh Bank, all Bangladesh nationals who are res- ident in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming into their possession, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer within one month of the date of acquisition. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continu- ously for more than six months are required to surrender any foreign exchange representing their earnings in respect of business conducted in Ban- gladesh or services rendered while in Bangladesh within one month of the date of acquisition. Foreign exchange held abroad or in Bangladesh by foreign diplomats and by foreign nationals employed in embassies and missions of foreign countries in Ban- gladesh is, however, exempt from this requirement. The import of Bangladesh currency notes and coin exceeding Tk 100 is prohibited. Foreign cur- rency traveler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in by nonresident travelers without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival. Foreign currency notes may be brought in without limit by any person, provided that the total amount brought in is declared upon arrival. No declaration is required for the import of foreign exchange not exceeding US$1,000 by nonresidents and US$750 by residents. Capital All outward transfers of capital require approval; such approval is not normally granted in respect of resident-owned capital. Inward capital transfers also require approval. Movable and immovable as- sets, including foreign exchange, owned in any country other than Bangladesh have to be declared to the Bangladesh Bank by resident Bangladesh nationals. There is no restriction on the importation of securities into Bangladesh, but the transfer of securities in favor of a person resident outside Ban- gladesh requires approval. This requirement ap- plies to all Bangladesh securities, whether held by residents or not, and to all foreign securities held by residents. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and corre- spondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time. Borrowing abroad by resident nonbank firms of Bangladesh origin requires approval. Borrowing by non-resident-owned or non-resident-controlled enterprises from commercial banks in Bangladesh beyond specified ceilings, as well as any borrowing from abroad, requires approval, and loans by autho- rized dealers in local currency against overseas guarantees or collateral outside Bangladesh also re- quire approval. Authorized dealers may, however, approve loans, overdrafts, or credit facilities against goods intended for export from Bangladesh to com- panies controlled by persons resident outside Ban- gladesh. Authorized dealers must obtain approval before making any loans in foreign currencies to residents or nonresidents, whether secured or un- secured. They are not normally permitted to hold short-term foreign assets other than small working balances. The permission of the Bangladesh Bank is re- quired for nonresidents to establish or continue a business in Bangladesh. Foreign private investment is governed by the Foreign Private Investment (Pro- motion and Protection) Act of 1980 and is permitted in collaboration with both the Government and pri- vate entrepreneurs. The act provides, inter alia, for the protection and equitable treatment of foreign private investment, indemnification, protection against expropriation and nationalization, and guar- antee for repatriation of investment. In the private sector, however, foreign participation is limited to those industries where technical know-how is not locally available, where the technology involved is very complicated, or where capital outlay is high, and to industries that are either based on local raw materials or that are wholly export oriented. For a new investment, foreign investors generally are required to provide as equity capital the entire amount of the project's foreign exchange compo- nent. There is no ceiling on private investment, but any investments above Tk 100 million need special approval. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on location. All invest- ments where the foreign equity portion exceeds 49 percent require the approval of the Investment Board. Dividends on foreign capital may be remit- ted freely after payment of taxes, except that 10 per- cent of the annual remittable profits must be held in Bangladesh by sterling tea companies until the total amount held is equal to 200 percent of paid-up capital. Gold The import and export of gold and silver in any form are prohibited without special permission, which is not normally granted. Exports of gold are allowed only in jewelry form under the Jewelry Ex- port Scheme. There are no restrictions on the inter- nal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments (including coin) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in all other forms except by licensed industrialists or dentists. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 38 BANGLADESH Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement The official exchange rate of the taka was adjusted on five occasions during the year, from Tk 31.20 = US$1 at the end of 1987 to Tk 32.27 = US$1 at the end of 1988. The secondary market rate did not change during the year and remained at Tk 32.925 = US$1. The spread between the two rates (the maximum XPB entitlement) was reduced below 2 percent effective November 12, 1988. March 17. The SEM rate, instead of the official rate, was applied to all encashments of export re- ceipts of the industrial unit in the Export Processing Zones (EPZs). The SEM rate was also applied to encashment of funds brought in from abroad by the units in EPZs for meeting their local expenses. June 30. The Exchange Rate Fluctuation Burden Absorption Scheme (EFAS) expired as scheduled. EFAS coverage remained available for a small num- ber of loan agreements approved before June 30, 1988, if letters of credit were established before November 30, 1988. July 1. Exports of waste cotton, buttons, industrial alcohol, and dropout fuses were entitled to the XPB at the rate of 100 percent. Exports of toothpaste and soap were entitled to the XPB at the rate of 70 per- cent. September 15. Locally produced packaging mate- rials used by export-oriented garment industries and exports of toys, luggage, and fashion accesso- ries, electronic goods, and leather goods, as well as the domestically supplied ingredients, were consid- ered to be indirect exports and were thus entitled to the XPB, at the rate of 100 percent for products having a value-added content of 50 percent or more, and at the rate of 70 percent for products having a value-added content of less than 50 percent. Prescription of Currency January 5. A barter protocol between the govern- ments of Bangladesh and the U.S.S.R., signed in December 1987, was announced to be valid up to December 31, 1988. Bangladesh will export mainly ready-made garments and ju te products and will import mainly machinery and equipment. January 6. Trading Corporation of Bangladesh and CGL of Austria signed a special trading arrange- ment to be valid for one year from the date of its execution, in the amount of US$15 million, on a self- balancing basis. February 14. The Bangladesh Export-Import Com- pany Limited (BEXIMCO) and Comtrade Limited of Switzerland signed a special trading arrangement to be valid for a period of one year, in the amount of US$10 million, on a self-balancing basis. February 22. Transcom Limited of Bangladesh and Andre & Cie of Switzerland signed a special trading arrangement to be valid for a period of one year, in the amount of US$5 million, on a self-balancing basis. February 23. Elite International of Bangladesh and Comtrade Limited of Switzerland signed a special trading arrangement to be valid for one year, in the amount of US$4.5 million, on a self-balancing basis. February 27. Nisu Limited of Bangladesh and V.M.S. Abdul Razak & Co. Limited of Singapore signed a special trading arrangement to be valid for a period of one year, in the amount of US$4.05 million, on a self-balancing basis. March 1. Meenhar Seafoods Limited of Bangla- desh and Slopefield of the United Kingdom signed a special trading arrangement to be valid for one year, in the amount of US$4.5 million, on a self-balancing basis. March 6. Trading Corporation of Bangladesh and Elders IXL Limited of Australia signed a special trading arrangement to be valid up to April 5,1989, in the amount of US$24 million, on a self-balancing basis. April 18. Trading Corporation of Bangladesh and Andre & Cie of Switzerland signed a special trading arrangement to be valid up to April 19,1989, in the amount of US$22 million, on a self-balancing basis. April 25. The governments of Bangladesh and Albania signed a barter protocol to remain valid until April 24, 1989, in the amount of US$4.1 mil- lion. Bangladesh will export mainly chemical goods and leather and will import mainly cement and pig iron. July 19. The governments of Bangladesh and the People's Republic of China signed a barter protocol, to be valid for one year from July 1, 1988, in the amount of US$30 million. Bangladesh will export mainly leather and ju te goods and will import mainly machinery, equipment, industrial products, and chemicals. Imports and Import Payments March 16. The import of rice by the private sector was authorized subject to permission of the Minis- try of Food; and an advance deposit in foreign ex- change of 100 percent was required before estab- lishing the letter of credit, with at least 30 percent cash margin obtained from the importers. April 6. The interim Import Policy Order (IPO) reduced the negative list from 355 to 292 items, and the restricted list from 261 to 226 items at the four- digit ITC category level. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH 39 July 1. Margin deposits on letters of credit were to be arranged only on a banker-customer relationship basis; previously, minimum import margin deposits were imposed by Bangladesh Bank. July 1. The 1988/89 IPO came into effect. The new IPO shortened the negative list to 189 items, and the restricted list to 153 items. Essential inputs for the local industry and some consumer goods were re- moved from the restricted and negative lists. En- titlement limits on individual firms were also eased. The import targets were raised, and the share of imports transacted through the secondary market was increased. Industrial importers were allowed to import up to three times the value of their industrial passbooks entitlements compared with two times the value under the previous IPO. New industries were allowed to import up to 200 percent of their entitlement in the first year, compared with 100 per- cent under the previous IPO. July 5. The advance foreign exchange deposits for the establishment of import letters of credit in the secondary market were to be arranged only on a banker-customer relationship basis; previously, minimum advance deposits were imposed by Ban- gladesh Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds March 19. The guidelines describing the pro- cedures for the allocation of export credit to direct and indirect exports for procurement of inputs from the domestic market through inland letter of credit were issued. July 1. The 1988/89 Export Policy Order came into effect. The policy formally extended all export in- centives to indirect exporters. Provisions were in- cluded for providing the XPB at the rate of 100 per- cent to electronic items, toys, luggage, and fashion goods when local raw materials were used, and at the rate of 70 percent when imported raw materials were used. Cash assistance amounting to 15 per- cent of the f .o .b. value was provided to hosiery goods and textiles when bonded warehouse or duty drawbacks were not available. Project exports, such as engineering services, consultancy services, and civil construction, were considered to be merchan- dise exports and provided all export incentives. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, atBDS$2 = US$1. On December 30,1988, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BDS$1.9975 and BDS$2.0350, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted. These rates in- clude commission charges of 0.1875 percent, buying and 1.8125 percent, selling. On December 30,1988, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Barbados for the Canadian dollar were BDS$1.6744 and BDS$1.7079, respectively, per Can$l; those for the deutsche mark were BDS$1.1165 and BDS$1.1388, respectively, per DM 1; and those for the pound sterling were BDS$3.5728 and BDS$3.6444, respectively, per £ stg. 1. Under clearing arrangements with regional mon- etary authorities, the Central Bank sells currencies of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) coun- tries1 at fixed rates (including a commission of 0.125 percent) but purchases only East Caribbean dollar notes. The rate applied mutually for the purchase of currency notes is the parity rate between each pair of currencies determined on the basis of the U.S. dollar rate. The Central Bank regulates the commis- sion that may be charged by the commercial banks in dealings with their customers in CARICOM curren- cies. Purchases of foreign exchange for private sec- tor remittances abroad (except for remittances for payment of imports, travel allowances, education, and nontrade payments up to BDS$500 and certain other specified items) are subject to a levy collected in the approval process by the Central Bank at the rate of 1 percent of the value of the transaction. The Central Bank periodically obtains forward cover in the international foreign exchange market to cover or hedge its own or the Central Govern- ment's exchange risks associated with foreign ex- change loans that are not denominated in U.S. dol- lars. Commercial banks are allowed to obtain forward cover in the international markets. Swap transactions in U.S. dollars are entered into be- tween the Central Bank and commercial banks, irThe CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. while commercial banks may freely switch between nonregional currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries and is administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments and the alloca- tion of foreign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. The exchange control system provides that foreign exchange should nor- mally be surrendered to an authorized dealer. The normal exchange control directives do not apply to transactions between residents and persons resi- dent in South Africa. Trade controls are admin- istered by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency,2 or through an Exter- nal Account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM countries must be made either through External Accounts (in Barbados dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, except that commercial banks may issue CARICOM traveler's checks denominated in Trinidad and To- bago dollars to Barbadian residents traveling to other CARICOM countries, within the approved limits for travel allowances. Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, autho- rized dealers may maintain in foreign currencies Foreign Currency Accounts in the names of resi- dents of Barbados and of other countries. Approval for opening these accounts is given on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to Foreign Currency Accounts under the conditions of approval estab- lished at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. External Accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents by authorized dealers without reference to 2Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Barbados dollar. 40 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 41 the Central Bank. These accounts are maintained in Barbados dollars. They may be credited with pro- ceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other External Accounts, with bank interest (payable on External Accounts or Blocked Accounts), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Central Bank. They may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of for- eign exchange required for travel or business pur- poses, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. The Exchange Control Act of 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to require certain pay- ments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to Blocked Accounts. Bal- ances in Blocked Accounts may not be withdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and certain imports originating in non-CARicoM coun- tries require individual licenses. Import licensing requirements and quantitative restrictions are the chief tools of Barbadian external commercial policy. The list of products subject to licensing is extensive. However, not all goods that are subject to import licensing are subject to quantitative restriction. Some items on the import licensing list may be freely imported throughout the year, while some others are subject to temporary restriction (par- ticularly agricultural products, which tend to be subject to seasonal restriction). Certain imports are prohibited; these include various foods tu f fs, blue jeans, and beer not produced within the CARICOM area. There is also a "negative list" for certain gar- ments, the importation of which is totally pro- hibited if the product is below a minimum c . i . f. value. Individual licenses are also required for im- ports of commodities that are subject to the provi- sions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago, whether the goods are being imported from CARICOM countries or f rom elsewhere. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Bar- bados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agri- cultural commodities. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to autho- rized dealers; payments for imports of crude oil and derivatives are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Authorized dealers may release for- eign currency for advance payments for imports into Barbados up to the equivalent of BDS$20,000 (c . i . f . ). Payments over BDS$20,000 require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Except for transactions involving resi- dents of South Africa, payments for all commercial transactions are permitted freely when the appli- cation is supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign ex- change for certain payments of a personal nature and for sundry payments. These include foreign travel (for which up to BDS$2,000 a person a calen- dar year may be allocated for private travel within or outside the CARICOM area; and BDS$500 a day, up to BDS$10,000 a person a calendar year, for business travel within the CARICOM area, and BDS$15,000 outside the CARICOM area), expenses of education abroad (BDS$20,0000 a person a year), remittances of cash gifts not exceeding BDS$500 a donor a year, subscriptions to newspapers and magazines (BDS$500 a person a year), income tax refunds, official payments, and life insurance premiums. Applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital appears to be involved. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted f rom the travel allocation. Outward remittances of funds to overseas insurers or other pension fund administra- tors are subject to a tax of 6 percent. Residents traveling to any destination outside Barbados may take out foreign currency notes and coin up to the value of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$200. Nonresident visitors are not permit- ted to take out any Barbados currency but may freely export any foreign currency they had pre- viously brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any country; these include rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and petroleum products. All other goods may be exported without ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 42 BARBADOS license. The collection of export proceeds is super- vised by the Central Bank to ensure that proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within six months of the date of shipment. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and the United States are sub- ject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the European Economic Community. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers. Travelers to Barbados may freely bring in notes and coins denominated in Barbados dollars or in any foreign currency. Resi- dents are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return to Barbados. Capital All outward capital transfers, including direct in- vestments by residents and the purchase by resi- dents of foreign currency securities and of real es- tate situated abroad, require exchange control approval. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Barbados, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surren- dered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances due to nonresidents, require exchange control ap- proval. Transfers in respect of inheritances are re- stricted to BDS$20,000 annually for each nonresi- dent beneficiary. Dowries in the form of settlements and cash gifts may be transferred to nonresidents under delegated authority, normally up to BDS$500 a donor a year. Emigrating Barbadian nationals are granted settling-in allowances from their declared assets at the rate of BDS$20,000 a family unit a year. The Central Bank also considers applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Barbados and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad, provided that they declare their assets held in Barbados. Direct investment by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the submission of documentary evidence as to the validity of the remittance, the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment, and the registration of the original investment with the Central Bank. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of se- curities registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is freely given on condition that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds from the realization of these securities may be remitted when it is established that the original investment was financed f rom foreign currency sources. Nonresi- dents may acquire real estate in Barbados for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinarily permitted. Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capi- tal sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated rate of return on the original foreign investment, as fol- lows: for the last five years at 8 percent a year; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years at 5 percent; and for any period preceding the last ten years at 4 percent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Barbados. Authorized dealers may as- sume short-term liability positions in foreign cur- rencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresi- dents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. Gold Gold coins with face values of BDS$100, BDS$150, BDS$200, and BDS$500 are legal tender and are in limited circulation. Residents who are private per- sons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold ac- quired in Barbados must be surrendered to an au- thorized dealer, unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and in- dustrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold by residents are permitted for industrial purposes and are sub- ject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to im- port gold are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Commerce; no license is required to export gold, but exchange control permission is required to do so. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments March 17. Soya bean oil, coconut (copra) oil, and corn (maize) oil were deleted from the list of items requiring import licenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS 43 March 17. Fixed vegetable oil (fluid or solid crude, refined or purified) was added to the list of items requiring import licenses. April 12. Gift wrapping paper (surface colored or decorated, in rolls or sheets) was added to the list of items requiring import licenses. November 10. Authorized dealers were allowed to sell foreign exchange for advanced payments for imports into Barbados, up to BDS$20,000 (c . i .f .) against specified documentary evidence. Payments for Invisibles November 10. Authorized dealers were empow- ered to approve, without reference to the Central Bank, applications for foreign exchange remittances of cash gifts, legal fees, commissions, dividends, subscriptions, film processing, and charges and re- funds, not exceeding BDS$500. November 10. Authorized dealers were allowed to release foreign exchange for education abroad up to BDS$20,000 for each academic year. November 10. Authorized dealers were allowed to sell foreign exchange for travel purposes, as follows: (1) from Barbados to another country within CAR- ICOM, BDS$2,000 a person a calendar year; from Barbados to countries outside CARICOM, BDS$2,000 a person a calendar year; and (2) for business travel, from Barbados to another country within CARICOM, at the rate of BDS$500 a day up to a maximum of BDS$10,000 a person a calendar year; from Bar- bados to countries outside CARICOM at the rate of BDS$500 a day up to a maximum of BDS$15,000 a person a calendar year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belgium is the Belgian Franc, and the currency of Luxembourg is the Luxembourg Franc. Luxembourg is linked to Belgium in a mone- tary association within which the Luxembourg franc is at par with the Belgian franc. Belgium and Luxembourg participate with Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Belgium and Luxembourg maintain the spot exchange rates1 between their currencies and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 percent) above or below the bilateral central rates. The agreement implies that the National Bank of Belgium stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 30, 1988, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 100 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders Belgian Francs or Luxembourg Francs Upper limit Lower limit 553.0000 2,109.5000 628.9700 56.5115 3.0387 528.7000 2,016.5500 601.2950 54.0250 2.6953 1,872.1500 1,789.8500 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. In Belgium-Luxembourg there are two spot ex- change markets, the official (or regulated) market and the free market. Most current transactions are settled in the official market; and only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permit- 1 Only with respect to the official (or regulated) exchange rate; the EMS mechanism does not apply to the free exchange market rate. ted in that market. Most capital transactions take place in the free market. In a few cases, however, there is freedom of choice as to the exchange market in which conversion is to be effected. Authorized banks may sell on the official market currencies acquired on the free market. Most convertible cur- rencies are dealt in the official market.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Nonbank residents may not acquire convertible currencies in the official spot market until a foreign payment is due. Nonbank residents may make for- ward purchases and sales of convertible currencies in the official market through authorized banks, provided that any foreign currency purchased is used for the authorized settlement of obligations within 15 working days from delivery (on the deliv- ery date itself if the maturity of the forward contract is less than 15 days); exchange not used within that period must be resold in the official market. Profits resulting from forward contracts not used to cover authorized inward or outward payments through the official market must be surrendered to the Trea- sury. On December 30,1988, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the official market were BF 37.255 and BF 37.435, respectively, per US$1. In the free exchange market, all currencies (in- cluding domestic and foreign bank notes) may be bought and sold at freely fluctuating rates. On De- cember 30, 1988, the free market rates between banks for the U.S. dollar were BF 37.45 buying and BF 37.48 selling, per US$1. Any resident or nonresident, including banks, may deal in the free market. Forward transactions, whether by banks or nonbanks, are uncontrolled and do not require a permitted underlying transac- tion. There is normally no intervention in forward exchange in either exchange market. Belgium and Luxembourg formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. 2Currencies dealt in the official market are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South Afri- can rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and Zaire zaires. The ECU (European Currency Unit) is treated on an equal footing with the other currencies traded in the official market. The Australian dollar and the South African rand are not officially quoted. Since February 1, 1988, the Greek drachma has been traded in the official market. 44 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG 45 Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg; the two countries constitute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Banks in Luxembourg may not accept deposits in Luxembourg francs from nonresidents in Luxembourg or term deposits in excess of Lux F1 million for 12 months or less from residents in Luxembourg. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administration of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) is exercised by the Belgian- Luxembourg Exchange Institute (BLEI). Exchange control powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks. The Belgian- Luxembourg Administrative Commission has au- thority to license trade transactions; it determines import and export policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the licens- ing offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. Bank supervision in Belgium is ex- ercised by the Bank Commission, and in Lux- embourg, by the Luxembourg Monetary Institute. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements oper- ate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made through the appropriate ex- change market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the ap- propriate category of nonresident account. All inward and outward transactions are classi- fied into four groups, which may be summarized as follows. List A covers merchandise, transport ex- penses, industrial expenses (e.g., costs of process- ing), and other commercial expenses, including in- surance, administrative expenses of sales agencies and credit card companies, and sharing in admin- istrative expenses of central offices by branches and affiliates. List B covers settlements of travel agen- cies, salaries, pensions, fees, subscriptions, taxes, and public administration payments. It also in- cludes family support payments by immigrant workers of foreign nationality. List C covers (1) in- come on securities, loans, etc., rents, and operating profits; and (2) repatriation of certain foreign long- term investments and transfers by emigrants of for- eign nationality. List D covers gifts, life insurance payments, family maintenance payments, capital investments, liquidation of long-term investments, dealings in gold and diamonds, transfers by emi- grants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, trans- fers by immigrants, inheritances, forward covering of merchandise, private travel expenses (except when settled through travel agencies), and all trans- actions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for for- eign payments are as summarized in the table below. SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACTION LIST FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET A,B C D A,B C,D Outward Payments Convertible Any Any Inward Payments Convertible Any Official Official or Free Free Official Official or Free NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Convertible Convertible or Financial Financial Convertible Convertible or Financial ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 46 BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG In addition to the general methods of settlement described above, individual licenses are granted in order to allow transfers through the official market for some of the transactions mentioned in List D. These cover essentially direct investment by enter- prises and some capital transfers by individuals. Conversely, imports of diamonds, including related costs, may be paid for only in foreign currencies through the free market, or in Belgian or Lux- embourg francs by means of nonresident Financial Accounts, or in domestic or foreign bank notes. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg franc accounts of nonresi- dents are classified as follows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these ac- counts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official market, and accounts may be opened freely in the name of any nonresident.3 They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used freely for settlements with residents that either must or may be made through the official market and for retransfer abroad through the offi- cial market, and they may be credited freely with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of convert- ible currencies in the official market to authorized banks in Belgium and Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred freely to other Convertible Accounts or to Financial Ac- counts or be converted into any currency in the official or the free market. Advances on Convertible Accounts other than mail-credit advances are sub- ject to authorization by the BLEI. A minimum debtor interest rate may be prescribed during cer- tain periods for mail-credit advances in Convertible Accounts of banks, with the exception of those for developing countries. Convertible Accounts may be held in the form of sight accounts (demand de- posits), prior notice accounts, and time deposits. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened for all nonresidents.4 They may be used International organizations and foreign diplomatic represen- tations established in the BLEU maintain Special Accounts, which are equivalent to Convertible Accounts but are not subject to the restrictions applicable to the latter. Foreign employees of these organizations and representations may maintain Special Convertible Accounts, which may be credited with their re- muneration in Belgian francs, provided they agree in writing not to arbitrage between both exchange markets to cover their cur- rent expenses in the BLEU. 4Foreign diplomats, foreign nationals employed by diplomatic representations accredited in the BLEU and by specified interna- tional organizations situated in the BLEU, individuals residing in Burundi, Rwanda, or Zaire, and BLEU nationals residing abroad temporarily for professional reasons are authorized to maintain Assimilated Resident Accounts. freely for settlements that either must or may be made through the free market and for retransfer abroad through the free market, and they may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresi- dent of gold or any currency in the free or the official market. Domestic bank notes and proceeds from the sale in the free market of foreign bank notes, when deposited with authorized banks by foreign travelers in Belgium and Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad, may be credited to Financial Ac- counts. Transfers between Financial Accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated in the free market. Interest, charges, and commissions relating to any nonresident account must be credited or deb- ited either to the account in question or to another of the same category. Imports and Import Payments Individual licenses are required for (1) all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Re- public, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam;5 and (2) a number of imports from all other countries outside the BLEU.6 The commodities for which individual licenses are required include many textile and steel products, certain agricultural products and food- stuffs, coal and petroleum products, diamonds, semiprocessed gold, and weapons. All other com- modities are free of license. Many commodities sub- ject to individual licensing are also admitted with- out quantitative restriction. Along with other European Communities (EC) countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EC countries; the BLEU also applies a system of minimum import prices to foreign steel products. Imports f rom non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to import levies, which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non- EC countries of most other agricultural and live- stock products. Import payments are subject to the same rules as those applicable to payments for invisibles (List A). 5Import licenses are issued freely for a large number of com- modities when originating in and shipped from these countries. 6Most imports in the latter group do not require an import license when imported f rom the Netherlands or from other EC countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG 47 No exchange control documentation is required. Special authorization must be obtained for import payments that precede the date of customs clear- ance by more than three months. Payments for tran- sit transactions must be supported by a form (model T) which must be presented to an authorized bank; these payments cannot be made earlier than three months before the date on which the payment from the foreign buyer is expected to be received. Other transit payments are subject to the same rules as those applicable to payments for invisibles (List A). Prior examination of supporting documents by the BLEI is required for import and transit payments exceeding BF 25 million. Import and transit payments that are fully or par- tially settled by means of bilateral netting have to be reported to BLEI. Authorization of the BLEI is re- quired for participation in a multilateral netting sys- tem involving import and transit payments. Payments for Invisibles Payments for transactions included in Lists A and B must be made through the official exchange mar- ket or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account. An authorized bank is re- quired to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods stipulated in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and that spot foreign exchange is not acquired until the pay- ment is due. For payments exceeding BF 25 million and in other exceptional cases, prior examination of supporting documents by the BLEI is required. Pay- ments for items on List C can be made either through the official market (alternatively, by credit- ing Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account) or through the free market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Fi- nancial Account, or in foreign or domestic bank notes); payments for items on List D must be made through the free market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Ac- count, or in foreign or domestic bank notes). For- eign and domestic bank notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Individual licenses are required for exports of specified commodities to all countries outside the BLEU, such as weapons, strategic products, and agricultural products. Individual licenses are also required for steel products exported to the United States.7 All other exports are free of license. 7Most exports do not require an export license when exported to the Netherlands or to other EC countries. Export proceeds must be collected in accordance with the same rules as those applicable to proceeds from invisibles (List A). Exchange control docu- mentation is not required. Special authorization must be obtained to collect export proceeds more than six months after the date of exportation. Proceeds from transit transactions have to be noti- fied on a form (model T), which must be presented to an authorized bank. These proceeds must be collected within three months from the date of pay- ment to the foreign supplier. Proceeds from other transit transactions have to be collected in accor- dance with the same rules as those applicable to proceeds from invisibles (List A). Export and transit receipts that are fully or par- tially settled by means of bilateral netting have to be reported to the BLEI. Authorization of the BLEI is required for participation in a multilateral netting system involving export and transit receipts. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invisibles connected with commercial transactions (Lists A and B—see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange market) within eight days of receipt or, alternatively, be credited to a Regulated Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for authorized current payments through the official market. A holder of a Regulated Account is required to use holdings in these accounts by priority whenever an authorized payment through the official exchange market is made. The BLEI may order the holder to sell part or all of the holdings in the official market, to abstain temporarily from making new deposits, and to surrender to the Treasury all gains from exchange rate appreciation. Receipts in foreign cur- rencies from transactions included in Lists C and D may be retained or sold in the official or the free market. Proceeds from transactions included in Lists C and D may also be collected in domestic or foreign bank notes. Foreign and domestic bank notes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions may be carried out through the free market, by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign bank notes. Direct investments by companies and some capital transfers by individuals, including gifts, family maintenance payments, remittances by emi- grants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 48 BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG inheritances, may also be made through the official market, subject to individual license. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments made in Belgium and Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the official market under special license may be repatriated through that market. Also eligible for outward transfer through the official market are the amortization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Lux- embourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by nonresidents, provided that such securities have been held at least 18 months prior to the maturity date. All transactions in se- curities by residents or nonresidents are free, but the financial settlement of such transactions must conform to the general regulations for capital trans- actions. The prior approval of the Ministry of Fi- nance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capital market by nonresidents; most of the Belgian franc bond issues on the domestic capital market have, in practice, been made by interna- tional organizations, while issues of Eurobonds denominated in Belgian francs are not normally permitted. Public bids by foreign companies or indi- viduals for the purchase or exchange of shares is- sued by Belgian companies require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance. The Luxembourg Monetary Institute (LMI) regu- lates the issue of franc-denominated bonds on the Luxembourg capital market: for public bond issues, an official calendar is established and priority is given to domestic public sector borrowing and to enterprises utilizing the funds for domestic invest- ment; for private bond issues, no official calendar exists, but the LMI monitors the overall volume and frequency of issues. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in coins or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; settlements in respect of gold transactions in coins or bars may be made only through the free market, through Financial Accounts in Belgian or Lux- embourg francs, or in domestic or foreign bank notes. Imports and transactions in monetary gold are subject to a value-added tax in Belgium at a rate of 1 percent. Licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold. Imports of gold for industrial, artistic, or medical use may be paid through the official market. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of antidumping duties, countervailing charges, and import surveil- lance measures introduced or eliminated by the European Economic Community during 1988, page 561.) Exchange Arrangement February 1. The Greek drachma was included in the list of currencies dealt in the official market. Prescription of Currency November 23. The special rules applying to pay- ments for imports of goods originating in Egypt were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement Nonresident Accounts The currency of Belize is the Belize Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at a rate of BZ$1 = US$0.50. The buying and selling rates for transactions between the Central Bank of Belize and the commercial banks are BZ$1.9937 and BZ$2.0063 per US$1, respectively. On December 31,1988, the buying and selling rates in transactions between the banks and members of the public were BZ$1.9825 and BZ$2.0175 per US$1, respectively. The Central Bank quotes daily rates for the pound sterling, the Canadian dollar, and a number of currencies of member countries of the CARicoM.1 A stamp duty of 1.25 percent is levied on all conversions from the Belize dollar to foreign currency. Belize acccepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on June 14, 1983. Administration of Control The Central Bank is responsible for the admin- istration of exchange control, which is applicable to all countries. Authority covering a wide range of operations is delegated to the commercial banks in their capacity as authorized dealers. Only in excep- tional cases or in applications involving substantial amounts is reference made directly to the Central Bank. However, all applications for foreign ex- change processed by authorized dealers are reg- ularly forwarded to the Central Bank for audit and record keeping. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency The only prescription of currency requirement relates to a specified list of currencies2 in which authorized intermediaries are permitted to deal with the public. Payments to a CARICOM member country must be made in the currency of that country. irThe CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. The Central Bank quotes exchange rates for Barbados dollars, Eastern Caribbean dollars, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. 2Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, Eastern Caribbean dol- lars, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. Permission of the Central Bank is needed for banks to open external or foreign currency ac- counts. The Central Bank may direct also that sums to be credited or paid to foreign residents be cred- ited to a blocked account. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports require authorization by the Central Bank; in most cases such authorization is delegated to the commercial banks. For reasons of health, standardization, and protection of domestic industries, import licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry are required for a number of goods—mostly food and agricultural products, and certain household and construction products; such licenses are liberally administered. There are no quota limits or other quantitative restrictions for balance of payments reasons. Most imports are sub- ject to a stamp duty of 12 percent of the c.i.f. value; the rate of stamp duty on citrus is 25 percent. Im- ports by most of the public sector and certain non- profit entities, imports of an emergency or human- itarian nature, and goods for re-export are exempt from import duties; goods originating from the CARICOM area are also exempt. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Authorized dealers have the power to provide foreign exchange for such payments within certain limits. The following limits are applied to purchases of foreign exchange: (1) nonbusiness travel by resi- dents, up to BZ$2,500 a person a calendar year; (2) business travel by residents, BZ$500 a day a person, up to BZ$10,000 a year; (3) business or non- business travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year, except where payment is made from an exter- nal account or from proceeds of foreign currency; (4) educational allowance, BZ$500 a course a year (apart from a once-only allowance of BZ$1,000 for educational expenses and maintenance); and (5) gifts, BZ$100 a donor. Requests in excess of these amounts are referred to the Central Bank; all bona fide requests are granted. Exports of foreign and domestic bank notes and currency are subject to limits as follows: each trav- eler may carry domestic bank notes up to BZ$100 and the equivalent of BZ$400 in foreign currency, 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50 BELIZE except that a visitor may take out such notes up to the amount imported. Amounts beyond these limits require approval of the Central Bank, which is liberally granted when justified. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for most of the export products. Export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized dealers not later than six months after the date of shipment, unless determined otherwise by the Central Bank. A small number of items3 are subject to an ad valorem export duty of 5 percent. Re-exports and transshipments are subject to a 3 percent customs administration fee. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Belize 3Lobster/ shrimp, conch, fish, turtles, mahogany, and wild animals. For sugar, the export duty is 2 percent. are free to bring in notes and coins denominated in Belize dollars up to BZ$100 a person, but there are no restrictions on imports of foreign currency. Resi- dent travelers are required to sell their excess hold- ings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return to Belize. Capital All capital transfers require the approval of the Central Bank but control is liberally administered. Gold Residents may not hold gold except by specific authorization from the Central Bank. Gold may be neither imported nor exported without the approval of the Central Bank. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Benin is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU) and of 2.50 per mill for transfers to countries outside the WAMU.2 Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign ex- change. Forward exchange contracts may be ar- ranged, with the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance, for payments for specified imports. The maturity period cannot be extended. With the exception of those relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Benin's ex- change control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries but, for pur- poses of certain controls relating to capital flows, the countries specified in this paragraph are also re- garded as foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Direc- torate of Currency and Credit in the Ministry of Finance and Economy, in conjunction with the Di- rectorate of External Commerce in the Ministry of i rThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Quest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are sub- ject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. Commerce, Handicrafts, and Tourism. The Minis- try of Finance and Economy, however, has the main responsibility for drawing up the exchange control regulations, in collaboration with the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Ad- ministration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be carried out by authorized intermedi- aries. Import licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Commerce. Exports of diamonds and other precious or semiprecious materials require prior approval in the form of a decree issued by the National Executive Council (Council of Ministers). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Benin is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other coun- tries linked to the French Treasury through an Op- erations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Ac- count country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China and specified socialist countries, however, are made through special accounts.3 All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold Foreign Accounts in Francs with authorized intermediary banks. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury is not per- mitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed direct 3There is an inoperative payments agreement with Hungary. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 52 BENIN to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by an authorized intermediary bank's foreign correspondent for credit to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter with an authorized intermediary bank. For- eign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries direct to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or proceeding from South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. Cer- tain agencies have an import monopoly for specified commodities. Imports of goods from any country, whether made with or without transfer of exchange, are subject to prior authorization from the Directorate of External Commerce. Goods may be imported into Benin according to one of the following two regimes: (1) goods that may be imported under a global im- port authorization issued to an enterprise; or (2) un- restricted goods that may be freely imported with the authorization of the Directorate of External Commerce. There are no import quotas or prohibi- tions other than for public health or safety reasons. All imports originating in foreign countries, when valued at more than CEAF 500,000, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the commodities have already been im- ported. Import licenses are subject to a tax equiv- alent to 0.85 percent of the c . i .f. value of corre- sponding imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Trea- sury through an Operations Account are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate of External Commerce, but for many types of invisibles the approval authority has been delegated to authorized inter- mediary banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Administration have been empowered to make pay- ments abroad freely on behalf of residents, up to CEAF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also subject to prior authorization. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a trip for each person (CFAF 87,500 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 remaining af ter return to Benin must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. However, with the special authorization of the Min- ister of Finance, larger allocations may be obtained up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 a person a trip for tourist travel and up to the equivalent of CFAF 1,500,000 for business travel. The transfer of one half of the net salary of a foreigner working in Benin is permitted, subject to authorization by the Directorate of Money and Credit upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents traveling to countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, they must declare to customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any un- utilized foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, subject to ad- justment for amounts exchanged for CFA francs or obtained by exchange of foreign currency. Nonresi- dent travelers may take out freely the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account; a maximum amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 in foreign bank notes; and any amount in other foreign means of payment (traveler's checks, etc.) established abroad and in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports to all foreign countries, including the French Franc Area, must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. All exports, except gold and dia- monds, are free of license but require an export application issued by the Directorate of External Commerce. The due date of payment for exports may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN 53 commodities at their destination; the foreign ex- change thus received must be sold to an authorized bank within 30 days of payment due date, and its proceeds must be repatriated to Benin by the latter by transfer via the BCEAO. Irrespective of currency of payment, prior authorization is required for the retention, sale, import, or export of raw diamonds and of precious and semiprecious materials. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Operations Accounts with the French Treasury may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from for- eign assets must be collected and surrendered. Res- ident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign bank notes and foreign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Capital Transfers of capital between Benin and South Af- rica are prohibited. Capital movements between Be- nin and France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are free of exchange control; most capital transfers to all other countries require prior approval by the Minister of Finance and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct investment and all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Beninese Govern- ment, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issuance or sale in Benin has already been authorized. With the excep- tion of controls over foreign securities, these mea- sures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account. Special controls are main- tained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries maintaining Operations Accounts. All investments abroad by residents of Benin re- quire prior authorization by the Minister of Finance; at least 75 percent of such investments must be financed from foreign borrowing.4 Foreign direct investments in Benin5 must be declared to the Min- ister before they are made. The Minister may re- quest the postponement of the operations within a period of two months. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declara- tion. Both the making and the liquidation of invest- ments, whether these are Beninese investments abroad or foreign investments in Benin, must be reported to the Minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Minister in charge of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a di- rect investment, which are subject to prior declara- tion, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by indus- trial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting and export-import firms (approved by the Minister of Finance) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance im- ports and exports; (3) loans contracted by autho- rized intermediary banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not ex- ceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct invest- ment requires the special authorization of the Minis- ter of Finance if the loan itself was subject to such including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Benin. Including those made by companies in Benin that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Benin of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 54 BENIN approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code (Law No. 82-005 of May 20, 1982) provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in in- dustry, mining, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Four preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for public and mixed enterprises operating at the national and provincial levels and provides, during a period of up to five years, for exemption from import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the production of the proposed item and from certain other taxation. Plan B is intended for domestic and foreign private enterprises contributing to the economic and social development of Benin and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, certain tax privileges for a maximum exemption period of five years. Plan C is intended for very large enterprises wishing to con- clude incorporation agreements with Benin and is granted for a period of up to ten years. In addition to the benefits of Plan B, Plan C guarantees stability of tax status, free choice of suppliers, and certain ad- vantages. For Plans A, B, and C, up to two years for installation time may be added to the period of the agreement. Plan D provides certain benefits for small and medium-sized domestic enterprises and cooperatives for up to five years. The method of application of the Investment Code is set out in Decree No. 28-254 of July 13, 1983. Gold Prior authorization in the form of a decree issued by the National Economic Council (Council of Min- isters), acting on the advice of the Minister of Fi- nance, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in raw diamonds and precious or semiprecious materials. In practice, residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Benin. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce, Handicrafts, and Tourism, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Trea- sury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of man- ufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments February 22. A special tax was introduced on im- ported wheat flour (Law No. 88-QPQ). July 1. The quantitative restrictions applied to im- ports of products that compete with domestic pro- duction (sugar, beverages, textiles, edible oils, and wheat flour) were eliminated and replaced by im- port duties and taxes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bhutan is the Ngultrum. Since its introduction in 1974, it has been pegged to the In- dian rupee, which also circulates in Bhutan, at a rate of Nu 1 = Rs 1. The rates for currencies other than the Indian rupee are determined on the basis of the prevailing quotations by the Reserve Bank of India for those currencies. If no large transactions are involved, exchange rates for other currencies may be determined on the basis of the most recent quota- tions by the Reserve Bank of India. No other ex- change rates apply to international transactions, and there are no subsidies or taxes on exchange transactions. On December 31, 1988, the buying and selling rates of the ngultrum for the U.S. dollar were Nu 14.80 and Nu 15.30 per US$1, respectively. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance controls external transac- tions and provides foreign exchange for most cur- rent and capital transactions. Beginning from July 26, 1985, substantial powers are delegated by the Ministry of Finance to the Royal Monetary Au- thority to release foreign exchange (other than In- dian rupees) for current transactions. The Royal Monetary Authority is in charge of implementation of the surrender requirements for proceeds from merchandise exports. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing use of spe- cific currencies in external receipts and payments. the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry has discre- tionary authority to deny foreign exchange for the payment of luxury imports. Customs duties exist on imports other than those from India. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no export taxes. Exports of cardamom to countries other than India receive a subsidy at the rate of 30 percent of the f .o .b. value. Exports of antiques of Bhutanese origin require approval by the Government. Proceeds of exports in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Authority either directly or through the Bank of Bhutan. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Most invisible payments other than those made in Indian rupees are subject to approval by the Royal Monetary Authority. All receipts from invisible transactions in currencies other than the Indian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Authority. Capital All capital transactions are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. Gold There are no specific regulations on transactions in gold. Imports and Import Payments All import payments other than those made in Indian rupees are subject to prior permission from Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bolivia is the Boliviano (Bs). The official buying rate is determined at an auction held daily by the Central Bank of Bolivia. On Decem- ber 30, 1988, the official buying (and selling) rate was Bs 2.47 = US$1. The official exchange rate applies to all foreign exchange operations in Bolivia. The auctions are conducted by the Committee for Exchange and Reserves (Comite de Cambio y Reservas) in the Central Bank. Before each auction, the Com- mittee decides on the amount of foreign exchange to be auctioned and a floor price below which the Cen- tral Bank will not accept any bids. The Central Bank is required to offer in all auctions unitary lots of US$5,000 or multiples of this amount. The mini- mum allowable bid is US$5,000 or multiples of this amount. Successful bidders are charged the ex- change rate specified in their bid. In general, the spreads between the maximum and minimum bids have been less than 2 percent. The sale of foreign exchange to the public is free of all taxes and commissions. Except for the require- ment to surrender the net proceeds from the export of goods and services, all banks, exchange houses, companies, and individuals can buy and sell for- eign exchange freely. Successful bids channeled through the banking system are voided if the bank- ing institution submitting the bid is not complying with the legal reserve requirement on deposits at the time of the auction. However, banks must main- tain a balanced spot position in foreign exchange at all times and sell to the Central Bank any excess balance at the end of each day. All public sector institutions, including the public enterprises, must purchase foreign exchange for imports of goods and services through the Central Bank auction market. There is a parallel but tolerated exchange market, in which the exchange rate on December 30, 1988 was Bs 2.52 - US$1 (buying) and BS 2.48 - US$1 (selling). Bolivia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from June 5, 1967. regulations. The Ministry of Finance, together with the Central Bank, is in charge of approving public sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt- service payments. Arrears are maintained with re- spect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ec- uador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- zuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Bolivia and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments All goods may be freely imported, with the excep- tion of sugar, which is temporarily subject to licens- ing requirements, and those controlled for reasons of public health or national security. The import tariff rates on selected capital goods were lowered from 20 percent to 10 percent in March 1988. The import tariff rates on all other goods were consolidated at 17 percent on Decem- ber 29, 1988. The import tariffs on capital goods are payable over a three-year period with a one-year grace period, rather than on importation. Importers are required to pay an inspection charge of between 1.89 and 1.90 percent of the f .o .b. value of imports. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Public sector purchases of foreign exchange for debt service must be approved by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Outward remit- tances of profit are governed by the provisions of Decision Nos. 24 and 80 of the Cartagena Agreement. Administration of Control Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank of Bolivia is in charge of operat- ing the auction market for foreign exchange. It is also the enforcing agency for export surrender re- quirements as well as for other exchange control All goods may be freely exported. All proceeds from exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the Central Bank at the official exchange rate within three days of receipt, with the exception 56 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA 57 of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign ex- change expenditures undertaken to effect the ex- port. Exports, other than hydrocarbons, are subject to an inspection fee of 1.67 percent of the f .o .b. value (including value-added tax); the fee is 1.05 percent in the case of exports by Specialist Services International Limited (SSI) and 1.65 per- cent in the case of exports by Bureau Veritas. Export- ers of nontraditional products receive, at the time of the surrender of foreign exchange receipts, a customs duty rebate certificate (certificado de rein- tegro arancelario) equivalent to 10 percent of the net value of exports as determined by the Central Bank of Bolivia. The certificate may be subdivided into amounts of Bs 100 or multiples of Bs 100. Exporters also receive redeemable tax bonds (bonos tributarios redimibles). Tax bonds are redeemable for up to one calendar year from the date of issuance. All export- ers may use the redeemable tax bonds for income tax and customs duty payments, with the exception of exporters of mineral products, who can use the redeemable tax bonds only for increasing the capital share of the Banco Minero S.A. As regards min- erals, the Compania Minera Boliviana (COMIBOL) and the medium-sized mines export their own pro- duction, and the Mining Bank exports the produc- tion of the small private mines. All exports of goods and services must be effected through documen- tary letters of credit drawn on domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agen- cies may retain the proceeds from their foreign ex- change purchases from invisible transactions, in- cluding those from tourism. They are required, however, to report daily their purchases on account of these transactions. Capital Foreign exchange for outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents can be purchased only from the banks or from the Central Bank. Inward capital transfers may be made freely, but govern- ment receipts of transfers and grants and all pro- ceeds of borrowings from foreign public sector agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities and credits to the private sector with official guarantees are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and to control by the Central Bank. Under Supreme Decree No. 19732 of August 11, 1983, fi- nancial institutions in Bolivia may make loans in the form of credits denominated in foreign currency for imports of capital goods and inputs for the external sector with resources from international financial institutions, foreign government agencies, or ex- ternal lines of credit. Under Supreme Decree No. 21060 of August 29,1985, banks are authorized to conduct foreign trade operations such as letters of credit, bonds and guarantees, advances and accep- tances, loans for the required financing with their correspondents abroad, and other operations gen- erally accepted in international banking, in favor of the country's exporters and importers. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those in- volving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law (Decree Law No. 18751) of December 14,1981. The law is admin- istered by the National Investment Institute. Invest- ments in petroleum and mining are governed by the General Hydrocarbons Law and Mining Code. Cer- tain foreign investments are subject to Decision Nos. 24 and 103 of the Cartagena Agreement. Gold Under Supreme Decree No. 21060 of August 29, 1985, gold may be traded freely, subject to a tax of 1.5 percent. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments April 1. The import tariff rate on selected capital goods was reduced from 20 percent to 10 percent. It was also announced that the general tariff rate of 20 percent on all other goods would be lowered by 1 percentage point each quarter until the tariff level is unified by end-1990 at the rate of 10 percent. The previous preferential tariff of 2 percent for imports of YPFB (state petroleum company) was removed, and YPFB was subject to the general tariff rate of 20 percent. December 29. The customs duty reduction pro- gram was suspended, and all duties except those on selected capital goods were consolidated at the rate of 17 percent (Supreme Decree No. 22103). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana Pula, which is pegged to a basket of currencies consisting of a weight of approximately 65 percent for the South African rand and of approximately 35 percent for the SDR. On December 30, 1988, the closing middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, was P 1.9357 per US$1; on the same date, the rate for the SDR was P 2.5934 per SDR 1. Exchange rates for certain other currencies1 are quoted on the basis of their rates against the U.S. dollar in interna- tional markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. External borrowings by parastatals are protected from exchange rate movements under a Foreign Exchange Risk Sharing Scheme. Risk associated with up to 4 percent fluctuations in the exchange rate is fully borne by the borrower. The Government bears one half and three quarters, respectively, of the risk associated with exchange rate fluctuations of between 5-10 percent and 11-16 percent. Risk associated with exchange rate fluctuations exceed- ing 16 percent is fully borne by the Government. Forward exchange cover is also offered by the com- mercial banks. The period for which forward cover may be given in respect of the foreign currency proceeds from exports of goods is six months. Administration of Control Exchange control is applicable to transactions with all countries. The Minister of Finance and De- velopment Planning has delegated most of the ad- ministration of exchange controls to the Bank of Botswana (the central bank). The latter, in turn, has delegated considerable powers to banks appointed as authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from residents of foreign coun- tries must normally be made or received in a foreign currency or through a non-resident-held pula ac- count in Botswana. Botswana does not maintain any bilateral payments agreement. Imports and Import Payments Botswana is a member of a customs union with Lesotho, South Africa (including Namibia), and Deutsche mark, pounds sterling, South African rand, and Zimbabwe dollars. Swaziland, and there are generally no import re- strictions on goods moving between the four coun- tries. Import permits are required, however, for most goods imported directly into Botswana from outside the customs union. Certain imported goods, including firearms, ammunition, fresh meat, and some agricultural and horticultural prod- ucts, require permits regardless of the country of supply. There are no restrictions or delays on pay- ments for authorized imports. Goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana and Zim- babwe by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided they meet certain local value-added re- quirements and are not intended for re-export. Im- port shipments of less than P 2,500 are exempt from exchange controls. Applications in respect of forward purchases of foreign currency to cover payment for imports when the contract covers a period exceeding six months must be referred to the Bank of Botswana. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue reasons. Proceeds from exports must be received in a foreign currency or from a nonresident pula account. For a few items, such as precious and semiprecious stones, permits are required before export is allowed. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, while subject to control, are not restricted. Authority to approve a range of current payments within limits is delegated to commercial banks. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of P 10,000 a calendar year for an adult (P 5,000 for a child). The allowance for business travel is P 500 a day, up to a maximum of P 30,000 a calendar year. The amount of unused foreign cur- rency for travel that a resident can retain for fu ture travel use is the equivalent of P 1,000 in currency and the equivalent of P 1,000 in traveler's checks; any excess amount must be surrendered within two months of the date of return in the case of currency notes and coin, and six months in the case of trav- eler's checks. The basic foreign study allowance for permanent residents is P 3,000 a month a person and P 5,000 a family, with a vacation travel allowance of P 5,000 a year. The annual limit on outward remit- tances by a temporary resident on contract is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA 59 P 20,000 or 50 percent of eligible salary, whichever is greater; for a self-employed temporary resident, the limit is P 20,000. Separately, travelers may take out domestic bank notes and foreign currency in an amount of P 500 and P 1,000 respectively, and may freely bring in any amount of domestic bank notes and coin. The Bank of Botswana may authorize the maintenance by residents of foreign currency ac- counts with banks abroad in proven cases of com- mercial need for such a facility. Authorized dealers may approve payment of dividends to nonresidents up to P 50,000 a year a company. Capital Applications to make investments abroad are treated on their merits and in light of possible bene- fits to Botswana. Foreign inward investment in new or existing businesses is generally encouraged. Any local borrowing in excess of P 250,000 by non- resident-controlled companies must be matched by nonresident funds in the company in a 3:1 debt-to- equity ratio. Equity is defined as paid-up capital, reserves, and retained earnings. The 3:1 limit is permitted to be exceeded if the project is to create significant employment. Any external borrowing by a local business must have at least a three-month grace period. Departing temporary residents are entitled to a basic remittable terminal allowance of up to P 20,000. Permanent residents are eligible for an emigration allowance of up to P 150,000. The balance of assets is normally permitted to be remit- ted in equal installments over three years from the date of departure, but faster remittances may be permitted in exceptional circumstances. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments March 1. The limit up to which exchange control formalities are not required in respect of payment for imports was increased to P 2,500. Payments for Invisibles March 21. The basic travel allowance for perma- nent residents in a calendar year was increased to P 10,000 for an adult and P 5,000 for a child, while the business travel allowance (covering both resi- dents and temporary residents) was increased to P 500 a day, up to a maximum of P 30,000 in a calendar year. March 21. The basic overseas s tudy allowance for permanent residents was increased to P 3,000 a month for a single person and P 5,000 a month for a family. The allowance for vacation travel abroad was increased to P 5,000 a year. March 21. The commercial banks were authorized to provide unlimited amounts to meet medical ex- penses abroad, subject to certain conditions. March 21. The amount of unutilized foreign cur- rency travel allowances that a resident may retain for fu tu re travel requirements was increased as follows: (1) P 1,000 in foreign currency notes and coin; and (2) P 1,000 in foreign currency traveler's checks. The period allowed for the extension of foreign exchange facilities on return to Botswana in excess of (1) and (2) above has been increased to two months from the date of return to Botswana in respect of foreign currency notes and coin and six months in respect of traveler's checks. March 21. The amount of Botswana currency notes and coin that may be exported by a traveler was increased to P 500. March 21. The amount of foreign currency bank notes and coin that may be exported by a traveler was increased to P 1,000. March 21. The amount in foreign exchange facili- ties that may be issued to nonresident travelers in exchange for pula notes was increased to the equiv- alent of P 500 a person. March 21. The basic terminal allowance of a de- parting temporary resident was increased to P 20,000, and the amount of foreign currency that may be made available by authorized dealers in a calendar year was increased to P 20,000 or 50 per- cent of eligible emoluments, whichever is the greater. March 21. The general limit up to which autho- rized dealers may approve payments of dividends and branch or partnership profits due to a nonresi- dent and payments of directors' fees to a director was increased to P 50,000 and P 15,000 (P 30,000 for a company), respectively. Capital March 21. The initial tranche of local financial support that a non-resident-controlled business en- tity may borrow in Botswana was increased from P 100,000 to P 250,000. March 21. Parastatals were advised that they should not borrow from outside Botswana until they were convinced that equivalent facilities were not available locally. March 21. The limit up to which the authorized dealers may approve emigration allowances for per- manent residents was increased to P 150,000 a family. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Brazil is the Cruzado (Cz$).1 Bra- zil follows a flexible exchange rate policy under which the exchange rate for the cruzado is adjusted on a daily basis in terms of its intervention currency, the U.S. dollar.2 Exchange transactions are carried out by the Cen- tral Bank of Brazil and by banks and tourist agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange; the tourist agencies deal only in bank notes and traveler's checks in a "manual market." Uniformity between the rates quoted by the Central Bank and the effec- tive rates of the Central Bank is ensured by the Central Bank's practice of standing ready to pur- chase exchange from the banks and to sell it to the banks at the official rate for approved transactions. On December 30,1988, the buying and selling rates quoted by the Central Bank to the public were Cz$761.49 and Cz$765.3 respectively, per US$1. The same exchange rates are applicable to "agreement dollars" used for settlements with bilateral agree- ment countries. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for the respective currencies in New York and Europe. With specified exceptions, foreign exchange trans- actions are subject to brokerage fees, calculated on a sliding scale, which result in effective rates of up to 3/i6 of 1 percent on either side of the rates set by the Central Bank. Different effective rates arise, on the selling side, from (1) the application of a financial transactions tax (imposto sobre operates de credito, cdmbio e seguro, e sobre operates relativas a titulos e valores mobiliarios) (IOF) of 25 percent to purchases of foreign exchange for imports of selected services and the extension of short-term trade credit, and (2) the requirement that payments for Brazilian investment abroad be made in gold instead of cruzados. Different effective rates arise, on the buying side, from (1) payment in gold to exporters of gems and other precious stones, and JOn January 16, 1989, the external value of the Brazilian cur- rency was devalued by 14.1 percent in U.S. dollar terms, and a new currency, the new Cruzado (NCz$), equivalent to Cruzado (Cz$) 1,000, was introduced. 2On December 22, 1988, the Central Bank announced the introduction of an exchange market for tourism transactions at a rate to be freely determined by market participants. The market came into operation on January 9, 1989. A limit of US$4,000 a traveler a trip was placed on sales of foreign exchange, but no limits were placed on purchases of foreign exchange. (2) payment in gold to Brazilian investors abroad for foreign exchange receipts corresponding to profits and dividends. Global daily limits are fixed for the authorized banks' bought and sold positions in foreign ex- change. The limits are fixed in relation to the regis- tered capital of each bank; a bought position of US$1.5 million and a sold position of up to US$7.5 million apply to most banks. Banks that are autho- rized to operate exclusively in the manual market and tourist agencies are permitted to maintain a bought position of up to US$25,000 for each autho- rized branch, but may not maintain a sold position. The Central Bank supplies foreign exchange to au- thorized banks in amounts not exceeding those needed to eliminate an oversold position; it is lim- ited to 100 percent of the exchange sold by the bank concerned to its customers during the same day or on the previous day; included in this limit is their manual market position (bank notes and traveler's checks). The banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other, subject to certain condi- tions; such transactions may be carried out either on a spot basis by cable or on a forward basis, and must be executed within 2 working days for spot transac- tions or not later than 180 days for forward transac- tions. The commercial banks are permitted to provide forward exchange facilities to exporters, usually for a period of up to 180 days. The banks provide daily forward quotations for foreign curren- cies, with forward premia reflecting corresponding interest differentials between the countries con- cerned. Commercial banks are subject to daily limits on bought and sold positions in foreign exchange. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council (CMN) is respon- sible for the formulation of overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines estab- lished by the Council, exchange controls, regula- tions affecting foreign capital, and the management of international reserves are under the jurisdiction of the Central Bank. Limits on foreign borrowing by the public sector are applied by the Secretariat for Control of Public Enterprises (SEST) in the Planning and Coordinating Secretariat of the Presidency of the Republic, and the National Treasury Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance. 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 61 The National Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX), a board headed by the Minister of Finance, formu- lates foreign trade policy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the Council's executive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade De- partment of the Banco do Brasil S. A. (CACEX) imple- ments the Council's decisions within Brazil. CACEX issues export and import certificates (guias de expor- tagao or declaraqaos de exportagao and guias de importagao). Coffee exports are regulated by the Brazilian Cof- fee Institute (IBC). The Customs Policy Commission (CPA), established within the Ministry of Finance, is responsible for formulating guidelines for tariff policy. The CPA also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The import policy of the public sector is coordinated by the SEST. Prescription of Currency In principle, prescription of currency is related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise pre- scribed or authorized. Settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries3 are made in clear- ing dollars through the relevant agreement account. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Brazil and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the mul- tilateral clearing system of the Latin American Inte- gration Association (LAIA). Settlements with coun- tries with which Brazil has no payments agreements or special payments arrangements are made in U.S. dollars or other freely usable currencies. Foreign Exchange Accounts Beginning October 30, 1986, exporters, im- porters, national companies with foreign capital participation, and official institutions in the field of education and technological research have been au- thorized to open foreign exchange accounts in U.S. dollars at the Central Bank. On June 29, 1988, for- eign exchange accounts held by exporters and im- porters began to be gradually abolished, and their total abolition is expected in early 1989. Companies 3Bilateral payments agreements are maintained with Bulgaria, the German Democratic Republic, and Poland. Bilateral accounts are also maintained with Hungary and Romania, but settlements are made in third-country currencies every 90 days, and interest rates payable on balances are based on the international capital market. whose foreign capital participation is registered at the Central Bank continue to be authorized to open foreign exchange accounts. These accounts can be credited with funds from new foreign direct invest- ments and reinvestments, reserve profits, consoli- dated surplus, profit remittances, and returns and gains from capital remittances. Deposits are re- munerated at LIBO rate, and withdrawals require 90 days' prior notice, or 30 days in cases of deposits from profits or dividends and sales of investments and participating capital stocks. Imports and Import Payments All importers must be registered with CACEX and goods can be imported only by registered firms or persons. Imports may be grouped into the following three broad categories: (1) imports that are free of requirements to secure prior administrative docu- mentation, including samples without commercial value and certain educational materials; (2) imports that require an import certificate, which is issued by CACEX if it conforms to a previously approved and binding annual import plan; and (3) prohibited im- ports, which include goods that are not licensed for reasons of security, health, or moral reasons, as well as for reasons of industrial policy. There is also a limitation on the direct import of consumer goods (and on the purchase on the do- mestic market of any imported consumer goods) by the public sector (the Government, autonomous agencies, and public enterprises).4 Most imports require the prior approval of CACEX. The regulations governing the 1988 annual import programs required enterprises with more than US$50,000 in annual imports (and US$25,000 if im- ports were used for own use) to submit to CACEX an annual binding budget.5 Since July 1988, requests for import licenses for capital goods are approved even if they exceed the importers' annual limit for that import category. The Minister of Finance may, on a temporary basis, and in accordance with the directives of the Economic Development Council and without prejudice to commitments under LAIA, authorize CACEX to reject applications for 4Under instructions issued by the Economic Development Council, federal ministries and subordinate agencies and public enterprises are required to submit, for approval by the President, an annual investment program incorporating their expected im- port requirements. 5Selected imports are exempted from the requirement of im- port programs, including imports to the free-trade zone of Manaus, wheat and petroleum imports, imports under the draw- back scheme, and imports of goods included in trade agreements negotiated with LAIA member countries. Regulations governing the 1989 import programs were issued on November 21, 1988. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 62 BRAZIL import certificates where: (1) imports are for spec- ulative stock-building purposes; (2) imports are causing or are threatening to cause serious damage to the national economy for reasons other than those related to the balance of payments; or (3) imports originate in or are shipped from coun- tries that impede Brazilian exports. CACEX is autho- rized to levy a processing fee of up to 0.9 percent on the value of import certificates; as a rule, certificates are valid (or 60 days, 90 days, or 180 days, depend- ing on the product. For special bonded warehouse importers, CACEX establishes half-yearly foreign currency quotas and issues clearance certificates for certain groups of commodities. For a number of specified imports, the import certificate may be ob- tained after the commodity has been landed but before customs clearance. It is a prior condition for the granting of import certificates that importers arrange external financ- ing with specified minimum maturities.6 The limit on cash imports is US$200,000 an importer, with an additional allowance of US$200,000 for capital goods imports. Minimum financing requirements are as follows: 2 years for capital goods imports; 180 days for parts and components; and 90 days for all other import categories. CACEX is entitled to autho- rize in exceptional cases imports that do not satisfy minimum financing requirements. Certain products require the approval of the Spe- cial Secretariat for Information. For some com- modities, eligibility for exemption from import duties may be precluded by the existence of satisfac- tory domestic equivalents (similares nationals). Goods imported into the Manaus free zone are subject to an annual quota, which was set at US$800 million for 1988. Foreign goods imported into the Manaus free zone up to the equivalent of US$600 can be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. CACEX may approve applications for the pay- ment of imports of any goods at terms of up to 360 days from the date of shipment without authoriza- tion from the Central Bank. External financing at terms in excess of 360 days for imports must be authorized by the Central Bank, which will evaluate them in the light of foreign debt policy. Payment of the amount financed, and the interest thereon, may be made only upon presentation of a certificate of authorization and the related scheme of payments issued by the Department of Foreign Capital Super- vision and Registration (FIRCE) of the Central Bank. Prior to shipment of the goods, total payments to suppliers for the nonfinanced amount may not ex- ceed 15 percent of the import value. Spot exchange contracts can be closed if the con- tract is intended to settle drafts, at sight or on matu- rity, and once the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be set- tled on maturity of the draft; settlement may take place two working days in advance of the maturity date. Exchange contracts for imports financed un- der letters of credit must be closed on the date of settlement or two working days in advance of the maturity date of the letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and technical assis- tance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. In addition to certain restrictions on remittances stipulated in that law, limits are placed on remittances of all royalties and technical assistance fees (see below). Subject to certain condi- tions, authorized banks may sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$300 a month for Brazilian residents temporarily staying abroad for educa- tional and health purposes. Payments for other cur- rent invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank's Exchange Department (DECAM) or FIRCE, which authorize remittances freely, subject to the presentation of supporting documents as evidence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. Sales of foreign exchange without the prior ap- proval of the Central Bank in respect of personal expenses connected with travel abroad are permit- ted up to US$1,000 a person 12 years of age or older, of which US$100 is available in cash and the re- mainder in traveler's checks; for trips to Central or South America, the amount is US$500.7 In the latter case, if the country does not participate in the LAIA compensatory mechanism, the traveler can request up to US$100 in cash and the remainder in traveler's checks; otherwise US$50 is available in cash and the remainder in the form of an order of payment to be cashed abroad through LAIA accounts. The basic allowances are one half of the preceding amounts for minors between the ages of 2 and 12 years; no allowances are available for infants up to the age of 2 years. A special allowance of US$20,000 a year is available for the travel and representation expenses 6Certain specified imports, including imports under the draw- back scheme and direct imports by public administrative bodies, are exempt from this requirement. 7The limits of purchases of foreign exchange for travel to all destinations increased to US$4,000 a passenger a trip, effective January 9, 1989. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 63 abroad of firms whose annual exports total at least US$200,000. Applications for purchases of foreign exchange for travel in excess of these limits must be submitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits. Remittances abroad of income from foreign direct investments and reinvestments and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are gov- erned by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regulations implementing the Foreign Investment Law. Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and ad- ministrative assistance are registered at FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). The registration of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or the use of patents or trademarks is subject to approval by the National Institute of Industrial Property. Remittances are normally authorized in the currency of the country of domicile or of the head office of the beneficiaries. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization payments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the re- spective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration; profit remittances are subject to with- holding tax on income at a rate of 25 percent or other rate determined under agreements between Brazil and other countries for the purpose of avoiding double taxation. A supplementary income tax ap- plies, when profits paid to a foreign investor during a three-year period exceed an average of 12 per- cent of the foreign currency value of registered capi- tal, at the rates of 40 percent, 50 percent, and 60 per- cent if the average profit paid is in the range of 12-15 percent, 16-25 percent, and above 25 percent, respectively. Remittances of royalties by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad are not permitted when 50 percent or more of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign principal firm or when the majority of the firm's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Remittances of technical assistance fees (either with or without the use of trademarks and patents) are not permitted, as a rule, when remuneration for such services exceeds specified percentages, ranging from 1 percent to 5 percent, of net receipts from the sale or manufac- ture of the products. The percentages are the same as those established in Brazil's tax laws for deter- mining the maximum permissible deductions for such expenses. Purchasers of foreign exchange for a number of current invisibles are subject to the financial trans- actions tax (IOF) of 25 percent. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign bank notes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of licensing requirements but require an export certificate (guia de exportagao or dedaragao de exportagdo) issued by CACEX to ensure compliance with exchange and trade regulations. Some exports are free of controls, but exports of several commodities require prior approval of CACEX, while exports of specified commodities are suspended. Exports requiring approval include those effected through bilateral accounts, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which minimum export prices are fixed by CACEX, and exports requiring prior authorization by government agencies. Ex- ports of coffee are subject to an annual quota and to authorization by the IBC. The IBC does not grant an authorization to export coffee unless the sales contract is based on a price that is at least equal to the minimum registration price (in U.S. dollars a pound, f.o.b.) fixed periodically by the IBC for the various types of cof- fee, although discounts are also authorized. During 1988 the IBC continued to make periodic announce- ments of minimum registration prices for exports of soluble coffee and green, ground-roasted, and de- caffeinated coffee, although not necessarily chang- ing them. Coffee exports are subject to a contribu- tion quota at a rate that is changed regularly by the IBC depending on market prices. The exporter must pay 50 percent of the contribution quota no later than three days after the export operation is regis- tered and 50 percent no later than one day after the coffee is shipped. The foreign exchange proceeds from all exports are sold at freely negotiated rates within the limits of the official market established by the Central Bank. Exporters of gems and other precious stones are allowed to obtain gold from the Central Bank in exchange for their export receipts. Foreign ex- change contracts covering transactions may be closed either prior to the shipment of goods or within 10 working days of shipment. Export pro- ceeds must be surrendered to the Central Bank within 180 days of shipment. The export of hides of wild animals in any form is suspended. A number of export incentives are in operation, principally for manufactured commodities. Certain exporters of manufactured goods are eligible for a tax credit on indirect federal and state value-added ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 64 BRAZIL taxes according to the terms of contracts signed before July 1982 under the Special Program of Tax Benefits for Exporters (BEFIEX). Firms signing new BEFIEX contracts are not eligible for the credits. For a number of exports to the United States (primarily textiles, leatherware, footwear, and certain steel products), export taxes of 0.6-11.0 percent are levied. For exports of ladies' footwear to all destina- tions, a tax of 2.2 percent is levied. In 1988 export taxes at different rates were levied on a number of other products, irrespective of destination. Various financing programs for exporters, some at preferen- tial rates of interest, are provided by the Banco do Brasil S.A. and other commercial banks. These fi- nancing facilities include both export financing and the financing of production and warehousing for export, particularly for manufactures. In addition, assistance is provided to exporters in the field of export credit insurance and by way of guarantees. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold through the authorized banks at the prevail- ing market rate. Traveler's checks and foreign bank notes are sold in the manual market. Travelers may freely bring in domestic and foreign currency notes. Capital Capital inflows in the form of financial loans un- der National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, or under the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131) require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private or public sector when the foreign funds orig- inate from official financial institutions abroad, when the transaction is to be guaranteed by the National Treasury or, on its behalf, by any official credit institution, and for other foreign borrowing by the public sector (i.e., the Government, autono- mous agencies, and public enterprises). In addi- tion, prior approval by the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private sector when the foreign funds originate from financial institutions abroad. Otherwise, inward transfers are unrestricted and free of control, although the subsequent utilization of the proceeds for the acquisition of certain domes- tic assets may be subject to control. There is a sepa- rate regime for inward portfolio investment. For the purpose of repatriation and the remittance of in- come, however, inward transfers of foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be registered with FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined for this purpose as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment to be used to produce goods or to render services that have entered the country with- out an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange; and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in eco- nomic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital other than capital invested in Bra- zilian securities is classified, for purposes of regis- tration, as direct investments or loans, whether im- ported in the form of money or of goods, and it includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Di- rect investment is defined as that foreign capital which constitutes part of the corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inherent in an eco- nomic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise is consid- ered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whether contracted by the manufacturer himself or by a third party, is consid- ered to be financing (mostly suppliers' credit). Persons resident abroad may make portfolio in- vestments in Brazilian commercial and industrial securities indirectly by acquiring shares in a Bra- zilian "investment company" quoted on Brazilian stock exchanges. Such capital is subject to registra- tion with the Central Bank and must remain in the country for at least three months. The minimum participation in investment companies by foreign firms or individuals is US$1,000. Portfolio invest- ments are exempted from the capital gains tax. Port- folio investments may also be made through the purchase of quotas of the "Investment Fund- Foreign Capital." The minimum participation in this fund is US$5,000, and the money must stay in the country at least three months. Funds and other collective investment entities established abroad may maintain, in Brazil, portfolios of bonds and other securities, once their constitution and admin- istration have been previously approved by the Central Bank and the securities and exchange commission. For financial imports and for investments made in the form of goods, the registration is in the currency of the country of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head office) or, in special circumstances, in the currency of the country of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in foreign currency, it is necessary to certify that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the original market of the loan, that the amortization schedule is not disproportionately heavy in the early stages of repayment, and, in the case of import financing loans, that the prices of the imported ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 65 goods correspond to the prices of comparable goods in the country of origin. Capital entering Brazil is registered in foreign currency. Reinvestments are defined as profits of companies established in Brazil and accruing to per- sons or companies resident abroad when they have been reinvested in the same companies that pro- duced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simultaneously in Brazilian currency and in the currency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calcu- lated at the average exchange rate prevailing be- tween the date on which the profits appeared on the balance sheet of a company and the date of their reinvestment. A progressive supplementary in- come tax is levied on distributions of profits and dividends to nonresidents in excess of 12 percent of registered capital and reinvestments over a three- year period; the tax is applied whether or not the profits are remitted abroad, but reinvested earnings are exempt. Special regulations govern borrowing abroad. Under National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, private, commercial, invest- ment, and development banks and the Banco Na- cional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social may be authorized to take up foreign currency credits abroad for domestic relending for purposes of fi- nancing working capital. Safeguards against exces- sive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obligations that each bank may assume (re- lated to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. The Central Bank assumes responsibility for the availability of cover for the repatriation of the loan at maturity. All other financial loans in foreign currency are effected under the general provisions of the Foreign Invest- ment Law (Law No. 4131). Loans under this law also require prior central bank authorization, but the Central Bank does not undertake to provide specific exchange cover for them. Loans under Resolution No. 63, as well as those under Law No. 4131, must have a minimum term of seven years, but no max- imum term is set. Foreign loans are subject to man- datory deposit at the Central Bank. In the case of private enterprises, the deposit is applicable to 75 percent of the loan proceeds converted into cruzados, and it is released as follows: one third after 60 days from the deposit date, one third after 90 days, and the balance after 120 days; for public enterprises, the deposit is applicable to 100 percent of the loan proceeds converted into cruzados and is released as follows: 20 percent after 150 days from the deposit date, 40 percent after 180 days, and the balance after 210 days. In addition to these mandatory deposit regula- tions, on June 23,1977, the Central Bank authorized voluntary deposits at the Central Bank by financial and nonfinancial institutions of the outstanding bal- ances of their foreign loans; these deposits may be released only on the maturity dates for payment of principal, interest, and commissions. For as long as the deposit remains with the Central Bank, the Cen- tral Bank covers all costs on these loans, including the exchange cost. As part of the measures an- nounced on September 12, 1984, these provisions were modified as follows: (1) voluntary deposits at the Central Bank in respect of nonfinancial loans (under Law No. 4131) were frozen for an indefinite period, except for (a) funds required for interest and amortization payments on the deposited loan funds, (b) transformation of such loans into direct investment, or (c) in certain special cases, upon the prior approval of the Central Bank; and (2) 80 per- cent of the balance of voluntary deposits at the Central Bank in respect of financial loans (under Resolution No. 63), which could be released until December 31, 1984, was frozen for an indefinite period —the balance of 20 percent as well as similar deposits made after this date could be withdrawn within an initial period of 60 days, and subse- quently within 180 days from deposit dates; where the funds are for use in the rollover of loans to domestic enterprises, prior notice of 15 days is required. Under a program for the management of external debt, the National Monetary Council imposes quan- titative limits on the amount of financial loans for which authorization may be given by the Central Bank. Loans are authorized only if maturities con- form with minimum requirements established from time to time by the Central Bank, which permits the total of loans outstanding to rise only to the extent that the servicing commitments on Brazil's total external indebtedness do not depart from the guidelines set by the National Monetary Council. As of the end of 1988, the Central Bank's minimum acceptable maturity was set at seven years. However, provided that the full amount of the for- eign exchange remains committed to Brazil for the minimum specified maturity, loans to the final bor- rower in Brazil, as well as loans to banks under Resolution No. 63, may be made at terms shorter than the final maturity of the debt abroad, and these funds may subsequently be re-lent to the same or a second borrower. Under the provisions of debt re- scheduling agreements, a similar mechanism ap- plies to the foreign exchange equivalent of affected ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 66 BRAZIL principal rescheduled with foreign commercial banks in 1988, subject to yearly quantitative limits. Outward capital transfers not mentioned above require authorization by DECAM and FIRCE, which consider applications on their merits. Approved ex- change transactions involving outward transfers of private capital are effected through authorized banks at the prevailing official market rate. Gold Firms authorized by the Government may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Brazil under Decree No. 1,038 of October 21, 1969. Gold mining is con- ducted under Law No. 4425 of October 8,1964. The first domestic negotiation of newly mined gold is subject to a mining tax of 1 percent, plus FINSOCIAL fees (an income tax surcharge and a sales tax) (0.6 percent) and PIS/PASEP (Programa de Integragao/ Assisttencia Social de Empregados Publicos) contribu- tions (a levy on the wage bill payable by employers) (0.75 percent), due on each transaction, unless the operation takes place in the financial market when the FINSOCIAL fees are due on the profits of the f irm. The Central Bank is empowered to buy and sell gold on the domestic market at domestic prices. (CMN Resolution 1182 of April 4, 1986.) Purchases of gold are made at current domestic prices; the interna- tional price is considered as a target price. Imports of gold are subject to the issuance of an import certificate by the Central Bank. Exports of gold are subject to authorization by the Central Bank, which is always the alternative buyer. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement January 18. The Central Bank was authorized to request that payments for Brazilian investment abroad be made in gold instead of cruzados (Central Bank Circular 1280). In the case of profit remittances and capital repatriation to Brazil, or of an increase in exports in real terms by the investor's firm, the Central Bank may pay out gold instead of cruzados in exchange for surrendered foreign exchange up to an amount equal to that sold by the investor to the Central Bank at the time of investment abroad. November 30. The Central Bank was authorized to make payments in gold to exporters of gems and other precious stones from the time the exchange contract is signed; previously, payments took place at the time export earnings were surrendered to the Central Bank (CMN Resolution 1533). December 22. The Central Bank announced the introduction of an exchange market for tourism transactions at a rate to be freely determined by market participants. A limit of US$4,000 would be placed on sales of foreign exchange by bank and trading houses; there would be no limit on pur- chases of foreign exchange (CMN Resolution 1542). (The market came into operation on January 9, 1989.) December 22. Hotels were allowed to operate in the exchange market for tourism. Sales of foreign ex- change in the form of money orders were allowed in the tourism market (CMN Resolution 1554). Foreign Exchange Accounts June 29. Foreign exchange accounts held by ex- porters (according to CMN Resolution 1208) or im- porters (according to CMN Resolution 1209) began to be gradually eliminated. Export deposits would be reduced by one sixth each month, and exporters would be eligible to exchange these deposits for public sector bonds with exchange rate adjustment. Import deposits would be reduced according to the original conditions that required a 90-day pre- authorization (CMN Resolution 1492). July 19. The criteria for the public sector bonds that could be obtained by exporters in exchange for foreign exchange deposits were established (Fi- nance Ministry Portaria 261). Imports and Import Payments March 4. A limit of US$800 million on total imports for the Manaus Free Trade Zone in 1988 was estab- lished (Decree 95780). May 4. Foreign trade in cotton, maize, soybeans, and rice was liberalized (CONCEX Resolution 155). May 19. The general principles on reductions or exemptions of import duties were established (De- cree Law 2434). May 25. Minimum financing requirements for im- ports were liberalized. The limit on cash imports was increased from US$100,000 to US$150,000 an importer with an additional allowance of US$200,000 an importer for capital goods imports. Minimum financing requirements for capital goods imports were set as follows: (1) two years for total annual purchases in the US$200,000-US$500,000 range; (2) three years for purchases in the US$500,001-US$1 million range; and (3) five years for purchases above US$1 million. Financing re- quirements on parts and components remained at one year, and at 180 days for the remaining prod- ucts. Imports under the drawback scheme, imports from LAIA, and selected other imports were ex- empted from these requirements (CMN Resolu- tion 1485). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 67 June 17. A new tariff schedule was introduced. The IOF tax on imports and the tax for the renova- tion of harbors were abolished. The scope of special import regimes that allowed for tariff reductions and/or exemptions was reduced (CPA Resolu- tion 1516). July 22. Reference prices for imports and mini- mum import values were abolished (CPA Resolu- tion 1526). August 30. CACEX was permitted to authorize im- ports that do not satisfy the minimum import fi- nancing requirements in exceptional cases (CMN Resolution 1511). November 21. New regulations regarding the 1989 import programs were announced (CACEX Commu- nique No. 207). November 21. The prohibited import list was re- duced from 2,400 items to 1,200 items (CACEX Com- munique No. 208). November 30. Minimum financing requirements for imports were liberalized. The limit on cash im- ports was increased to US$200,000 an importer. Minimum financing requirements were reduced to: (1) two years for capital goods imports when the im- porter's annual purchases surpassed US$200,000; (2) 180 days for parts and components; and (3) 90 days for all other products (CMN Resolution 1534). December 21. A 50 percent tax on port rates charged on both exports and imports was intro- duced, with the proceeds earmarked for the im- provement of the harbors (Decree Law 7700). Payments for Invisibles September 9. The limit on sales of foreign exchange available for travel to Central and South America was reduced from US$500 a trip to US$250 and kept unchanged at US$1,000 for travel elsewhere. Only up to US$20 may be made available in foreign cur- rency or traveler's checks for travel to Central and South America, and only up to US$100 for travel to destinations outside that region (CMN Resolu- tion 1514). September 21. The moratorium on interest pay- ments on medium- and long-term debt owed to foreign commercial banks was lifted (CMN Resolu- tion 1516). September 28. Foreign exchange allowances for travel to Central and South America were increased to US$500 a trip, of which US$50 may be made available in cash or traveler's checks and the re- mainder in the form of payment orders to be cashed abroad through LAI A accounts. In cases where the country is not a participant in the LAIA compensa- tory mechanism, the traveler may request up to US$100 in cash and the remainder in traveler's checks. In the case of travel to destinations outside the Central and South American region, US$100 would be made available in cash and the remainder in traveler's checks (Central Bank Circular 1357). December 1. The limit on foreign exchange al- lowances for travel was increased to US$4,000, irre- spective of destination, which may be purchased at a freely determined exchange rate in a market to be operated by domestic commercial banks and ex- change houses. (CMN Resolution 1542.) (This mar- ket came into operation on January 9, 1989.) Exports and Export Proceeds February 10. The corporate tax rate on profits from export operations was raised from zero to 3 percent for 1989 and to 6 percent for 1990 (Decree Law 2413). February 11. The tax on exports of iron and steel plates and tubing, machine wire, carbon steel plates, and laminated steel and stainless steel bars to the United States was eliminated (CMN Resolu- tion 1463). March 2. CACEX was authorized to enter into long- term export contracts of products with exportable surpluses (CONCEX Resolution 152). May 19. Prior controls on exports were termi- nated, except on selected medical products, military goods, radioactive goods, goods with historical and cultural values, and goods subject to international agreements (Decree Law 2435). May 25. The privatization of the marketing of sugar exports, which was expected to take place on June 1, 1988, was postponed for one year (Decree Law 2437). June 22. The list of products subject to the new trade agreements on metallurgy with the United States and the European Community was pub- lished (CACEX Communique 193). July 29. Export Processing Zones (ZPEs), which would benefit from the same treatment as free trade areas, were permitted (Decree Law 2452). November 30. The regulations governing the estab- lishment of ZPEs were issued (Central Bank Circu- lar 1390). Capital February 1. New regulations on debt equity con- version were introduced (CMN Resolution 1416). June 30. The requirement that prepayments of principal or interest on external obligations be done through the banking system and be communicated to the Central Bank within two days of occurrence was introduced (Central Bank Circular 1326). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 68 BRAZIL July 28. Regulations governing the participation of foreign capital in mutual funds were introduced (Central Bank Circular 1339). September 1. Special tax treatments for profits earned from mutual funds owned by nonresidents were introduced (Decree Law 2469). November 30. Investment abroad by Brazilian en- terprises was allowed at the official exchange rate in an amount equal to direct foreign investment re- ceived by the enterprise, excluding investment from debt equity conversion (CMN Resolu- tion 1534). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burkina Faso is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.1 per mill for transfers from coun- tries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU) and one of 2.5 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission of 2.5 per mill on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In the official and commercial banking sectors, forward exchange cover may only be arranged by residents for settlements with respect to imports of goods on specified lists. All contracts for forward exchange cover must be denominated in the cur- rency of payments stipulated in the contract, and they are subject to the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance. Forward exchange contracts may be concluded for a period of one month and may not be renewed; for certain products, the matu- rity period of forward exchange cover may be re- newed once for a period of three months. With the exception of measures relating to gold and to the repatriation of export proceeds, Burkina Faso's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central Afri- can Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote dTvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. JThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directo- rate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance. The approval authority in respect of exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward exchange cover, opening of external accounts in for- eign currency, and business travel allocations in ex- cess of CFAF 400,000) has been delegated to the BCEAO and, within limits specified in the exchange control regulations, to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO is also authorized to collect, either di- rectly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and judicial agents, any in- formation necessary to compile balance of pay- ments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through au- thorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade in the Min- istry of Commerce and Supply. Import certificates for liberalized commodities and export attestations are made out by the importer or exporter himself and, when settlement takes place with a country outside the French Franc Area, are visaed by the Customs Administration. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Burkina Faso is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally settled through the West African Clearing House. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China, the Federal Republic of Germany, and Ghana3 are channeled through special accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected either through correspondent banks in France, or the country concerned, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs (or in other currencies 3 A bilateral agreement was negotiated with Ghana in 1970 but is inoperative. 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 70 BURKINA FASO of the French Franc Area) through Foreign Ac- counts in Francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank notes may be credited to Foreign Ac- counts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Ouagadougou by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the cred- iting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, with- out prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed directly by authorized intermedi- aries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from any country for commercial purposes and under any customs regulations may be made freely; however, for the purpose of monitoring, prior ac- quisition of an official import document may be necessary for imports exceeding an amount spec- ified by the Minister of Commerce and Supply; an import license is required for those products subject to quota, and a prior import authorization is re- quired for all other products. For imports subject to quota, a special commis- sion (Commission des Importations) fixes the quotas and allocates them among importers. All other im- ports may require prior authorization, depending on the circumstances. Noncommercial imports re- quire special authorization, to be obtained in ad- vance from the Ministry of Commerce and Supply. Imports of goods subject to special controls require the prior approval of the competent ministry. On the other hand, imports of certain products, a list of which is established by decree, may be exempted from the import document requirement. The Minis- ter of Commerce and Supply may, on the basis of criteria established by his Ministry, waive the pre- scribed formalities for imports from countries with which Burkina Faso has concluded a customs union or free trade area agreement. Most imports are sub- ject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent, an import surcharge of 6 percent, and a statistical tax of 4 percent. All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import li- censes or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, on the due date for payment if the com- modities have already been imported, or at the time of the payment on account if such a payment has to be made prior to the import. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to exchange control approval, which for many invisibles has been delegated to the autho- rized intermediaries. Authorized intermediary banks and the Postal Administration are em- powered to make payments up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer to foreign countries on behalf of residents without requiring justification. Payments for invis- ibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income ac- cruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted. Residents traveling for tourism to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries may purchase ex- change equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining af ter return to Bur- kina Faso must be surrendered. The basic allocation for travel abroad for business purposes is the equiv- alent of CFAF 20,000 a day, with a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. Larger allocations are granted, however, for bona fide reasons. Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes or the equiv- alent in French bank notes or bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Residents traveling to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if pro- ceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, they must declare to customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, or any larger amount, if declared upon entry or ac- quired by drawing on a Foreign Account in Francs, or an Account in Foreign Currency, or by exchange of foreign traveler's checks, etc. They may take out any foreign means of payment other than bank notes acquired in Burkina Faso by debit to a Foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURKINA FASO 71 Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign Cur- rency, subject to submission of documentation. They may also take out freely up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes or the equivalent in French bank notes or bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports from Burkina Faso may be made freely. However, for the purpose of monitor- ing, exports or re-exports of certain products may require prior official authorization by the competent services of the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, except in the case of certain goods, a list of which is established by decree. In accordance with criteria defined by the Minister of Commerce and Supply, exports of certain products may be subject to special regulations. Exports of any product may require prior special authorization from the competent ser- vices of the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, de- pending on circumstances. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regulations. Export proceeds must be surrendered within one month of the date on which the payment falls due (the due date stipu- lated in the commercial contract, which must not, in principle, be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination). All export transactions relating to foreign countries, including countries in the French Franc Area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, and the exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment and submit an export at- testation form. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent and a statistical duty of 3 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings may not be received in or from South Africa. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Resident travelers must declare to customs any for- eign means of payment in excess of CFAF 5,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an autho- rized bank within eight days after return. Capital All capital movements between Burkina Faso and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements be- tween Burkina Faso and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Burkina Faso. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Fi- nance. Exempt from authorization, however, are op- erations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Burkinabe Government, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, advertising, or sale in Burkina Faso has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Burkina Faso require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance4 and, unless specifically exempted by the Minister of Finance, 75 percent of such investments must be financed from borrowings abroad. Foreign direct investments in Burkina Faso5 must be de- clared to the Minister of Financial Resources before they are made. The Minister has a period of two Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Burkina Faso and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Burkina Faso. 5Including those made by companies operating in Burkina Faso that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Burkina Faso of for- eign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 BURKINA FASO months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of either type of invest- ment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Burkinabe investments abroad or foreign investments in Burkina Faso, must be re- ported to the Minister of Finance. Direct invest- ments constitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a com- pany whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Foreign firms operating in Burkina Faso in vital or priority sectors are required to have Burkinabe par- ticipation in their capital of at least 51 percent and of at least 35 percent in all other sectors. The sale to residents of Burkina Faso of securities of foreign companies operating in Burkina Faso requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, who estab- lishes the sale value. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Fi- nance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct in- vestment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Burkina Faso, or by international trading houses previously approved by the Minister of Financial Resources to finance international merchanting transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, includ- ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower, provided that the an- nual interest rate does not exceed the normal mar- ket rate and that the proceeds are immediately sur- rendered by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the BCEAO, acting on behalf of the Minister of Finance. The Investment Code provides preferential treat- ment for foreign investment in Burkina Faso, except for enterprises whose capital stock belongs entirely to foreigners. Three preferential categories (A, B, and C) are established, in accordance with which special guarantees and tax and customs incentives may be granted for up to eight years to any enter- prise that undertakes to create or considerably ex- pand activities likely to contribute to the country's economic and social development. Enterprises that the Government deems to be of a priority nature may also be given privileged treatment. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Burkina Faso. Imports and ex- ports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Ex- empt from this requirement are: (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams by travelers. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. The Comptoir Burkinabe des Metaux Precieux (CBMP) has a monopoly on exports of gold from Burkina Faso. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burma is the Burmese Kyat, which is pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 = SDR 1. Burma applies margins of 2 percent in respect of spot exchange transactions, based on the fixed kyat- SDR rate. The buying and selling rates of the kyat for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Jap- anese yen, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar, quoted by the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, are determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the value of these currencies against the SDR. On December 30, 1988, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 6.3469 and K 6.4739, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Belgian franc, the Italian lira, and the Netherlands guilder are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the New York market; buying and selling rates for the Hong Kong dollar, the Malaysian ringgit, and the Singapore dollar are determined weekly on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur, and Sin- gapore markets, respectively; and buying and sell- ing rates for other currencies are based on appropri- ate cross rates in local markets (e.g., Bombay, for the Indian rupee). There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ex- change Control Board, through the Myanma For- eign Trade Bank, in accordance with instructions from the Ministry of Planning and Finance. A For- eign Exchange Control Committee headed by the Minister of Planning and Finance is in charge of the allocation of foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Burma maintains no bilateral payments agree- ments. Certain settlements with Bangladesh are channeled through a nonresident bank account at the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, and certain settle- ments with India are channeled through special rupee accounts in that country. Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an External Account in Burma. Receipts must be collected in convertible currencies or to the debit of an External Account in Burma. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts may be kept with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank by international or- ganizations, diplomatic personnel, or other foreign residents, subject to approval by the Exchange Con- trol Board. Such accounts are normally held in deut- sche mark, Indian rupees, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. They may be credited and debited freely, but no interest is payable on them. Foreign nationals temporarily resident in Burma are entitled to hold foreign exchange utilization cards for use in diplo- matic shops. Nonresidents may be authorized to hold external accounts in kyats; all debits and credits to such accounts require prior authorization. Burmese nationals working abroad under permis- sion from the Government may open accounts in U.S. dollars with the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, Rangoon, out of their savings; with exchange con- trol approval, withdrawals from such accounts can be used for payment of personal imports and petty expenses. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Also prohibited are imports of a few commodities from any source—principally opium and other nar- cotics, monkeys, playing cards, and gold and silver bullion. An import program is prepared annually as part of the foreign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of Planning and Finance. All imports in- volving use of official foreign exchange are made by the public sector through the ministries. The My- anma Export-Import Corporation (MEIC) imports goods for the use of the private sector, whose re- quirements are estimated by the Central Trade Council. In general, state economic enterprises and departments import goods for their own use, in- cluding imports under loan and aid agreements, partly in their own names and partly in the name of the MEIC. Licenses are not required. A licensing fee of 5 percent of the c . i .f. value is levied on imports which are meant for resale, but imports for depart- mental use are exempted. Most imports are pur- chased on an f .o .b. basis, and shipments are made 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 74 BURMA on vessels owned or chartered by the Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation whenever possible. All payments for imports are made through the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank. State economic enter- prises obtain foreign exchange directly from the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank within the approved foreign exchange budget on endorsement by the respective ministries. Foreign exchange allocations can be transferred by a ministry from one enterprise to another; transfers among ministries require cabi- net approval. Imports not involving use of official foreign exchange do not require exchange control approval. Such imports for personal use generally do not require permits, but imports of certain dur- able items which are imported for personal use, such as cars, require specific permits. Burmese na- tionals who earn foreign exchange in Burma, and those who are working abroad and have returned from abroad after the completion of their employ- ment, as well as Burmese seamen are, however, permitted to import one motor vehicle. Seamen and other travelers may bring in a reasonable amount of personal goods when they enter the country. Payments for Invisibles There is no licensing for payments in connection with foreign trade handled by the public sector. All payments for invisibles outside the public sector are subject to licensing and are considered on a case-by- case basis. Payments for membership fees to educa- tional or technical institutions abroad and payments for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are, as a rule, allowed freely. Family remittances are permitted only for foreign technicians employed under contract by the Government, the limit being one half of the net salary if the wife is living abroad, and one third of the net salary if the wife is living in Burma. Outward remittances of insurance pre- mium payments other than for the Myanma Insur- ance Corporation are not permitted. The remittance of pension payments to retired government em- ployees is permitted, only if the persons concerned had been nonnationals throughout their term of service and are now residing in their native coun- tries. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Burmese nationals require official permission to travel abroad. Such permission may be granted for travel on official missions, for approved religious pilgrimages, or for approved employment abroad. Travel for medical reasons is authorized on a case- by-case basis, while travel for educational purposes is authorized only in connection with state scholar- ships. Tourist travel by Burmese nationals has been suspended. Residents who have been granted an official permit to travel abroad may take out freely the equivalent of K100 in the currency of the coun- try of destination or, if that currency is not available, in U.S. dollar notes. Nonresidents who have stayed in Burma for less than six months may, on leaving the country, take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert the remaining balance of the kyats ob- tained by conversion of foreign currency. Those who stay longer than six months must surrender all foreign currency in their possession but may be authorized by the Exchange Control Board to keep foreign currencies in foreign exchange accounts. The export of Burmese currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. There is also a list of prohibited exports comprising iron and steel, brass, copper, and aluminum and scrap thereof, foreign manufactures, and commodities of domestic origin which need to be conserved for domestic requirements. In practice, state agencies responsible for production may export any product in excess of the need for domestic consumption. Special permits are required for exports of antiques. Exports are generally effected by the MEIC, al- though timber, rubber, jute, fish and fish products, coffee, hides and skins, minerals, and petroleum and petroleum products may be exported directly by the respective state economic enterprises. Rice is exported by the Agriculture and Farm Produce Trade Corporation in the name of the MEIC. Since February 1988, private traders and cooperatives have been permitted to export rice. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities, i.e., in approved con- vertible currencies or by debiting the kyat account of banks in the importing country, and surrendered to the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank within six months of the date of shipment. Certain exports are sub- sidized through the Export Price Equalization Fund Account. When exports are made on an f .o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c . i .f. basis are usually shipped by the Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation or on vessels chartered or nominated by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered unless otherwise specified by special per- mission from the exchange control authorities, which may grant such permission to foreign na- tionals residing in Burma in connection with official ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA 75 business. Travelers may bring in, subject to declara- tion, any amount in foreign currency; foreign na- tionals who intend to stay for more than six months must surrender all foreign exchange in their posses- sion unless special permission is given to the con- trary. The import of Burmese currency is pro- hibited. Burmese nationals working abroad under permission from the Government are required to repatriate part of their gross earnings in foreign exchange. In the case of Burmese seamen serving abroad, the repatriation requirement is 50 percent of basic pay, and the kyat equivalent is credited to their bank accounts. Burmese nationals working abroad in international organizations and not subject to income tax are required to repatriate 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange; the kyat equivalent is credited to the accounts of such na- tionals or their families. Burmese nationals working abroad in private organizations are required to remit as tax 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange through embassies in their country of residence. Capital Under the Union of Burma Foreign Investment Law enacted on November 30,1988 by the State Law and Order Restoration Council, the Foreign Invest- ment Commission is empowered to accept pro- posals for investment in Burma from (1) foreigners to the extent of 100 percent foreign capital, and (2) a joint venture between a foreign investor and a Bur- mese citizen, with the share of foreign capital of at least 35 percent of the total capital. In order to facili- tate and promote foreign investment, the Commis- sion may grant exemption from the customs duties on machinery and equipment imported during con- struction of the project, and from the income tax for a period of up to three years from the date of com- mencement of production of goods and services. The income tax relief may exceed three years, de- pending upon the success of the enterprise. Foreign investments are guaranteed from nationalization during the term of the contract, and the transfer abroad of the following through a bank prescribed by the Commission at the prevailing official rate of exchange is permitted with the approval of the Commission: (1) foreign capital that was brought in; (2) profits net of all taxes; and (3) balances of the salary and lawful income obtained by the foreign personnel during performance of service in Burma and remaining after payments of taxes and living expenses incurred by him and his family. Gold Residents may hold and trade in gold jewelry, gold coin, and unworked gold in Burma. Licenses for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Burma, subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The export of personal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repatriated. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to customs when it was brought into Burma. Changes During 1988 Capital November 30. A new Foreign Investment Law per- mitting up to 100 percent capital participation by foreign investors arid providing for certain tax in- centives came into force. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Burundi is the Burundi Franc, which is pegged to the SDR. In August 1986 Bu- rundi introduced a flexible exchange rate system under which the exchange rate was to be adjusted periodically to reflect underlying economic condi- tions. On December 31,1988, the exchange rate was FBu 201 = SDR 1, and the official buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were FBu 149.19 and FBu 150.69, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for 19 currencies1 are quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi (the central bank) on the basis of the Burundi franc/SDR rate and the transaction value of these currencies in terms of the SDR. Au- thorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transactions at the buying and selling rates estab- lished by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi for currencies quoted by that Bank. An exchange fee of 2 per mill is collected on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the Bank of the Republic of Burundi; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to four authorized banks (Bancobu, BCB, ABB, and Meridien Bank). Prescription of Currency Settlements relating to trade with Rwanda and Zaire in products specified in the commercial agree- ments between these countries are effected through convertible currency accounts maintained with the central bank and authorized banks of each signatory country. With these exceptions, outgoing payments may be made and receipts may be obtained in any currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in Burundi francs may be maintained, subject to the approval of the Bank of Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, U.S. dollars, and zaires. the Republic of Burundi, by (1) physical persons of foreign nationality, such as diplomats, who are tem- porarily established in Burundi and are not consid- ered as residents, and (2) juridical persons of for- eign nationality with special status, such as foreign embassies and international organizations. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi, and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs for any normal current payments in Burundi and for conversion into foreign exchange (except bank notes). All other debits and credits require the approval of the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. These accounts do not bear interest and must not be overdrawn. Certain nonresidents may maintain Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Bank of the Republic of Burundi and is restricted to (1) physical persons of foreign na- tionality who are resident abroad, and (2) juridical persons having branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi that is received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Burundi francs for any payments in Burundi, and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase of foreign goods, except for bank notes. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Burundi francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped from South Africa are prohibited. All imports require licenses, except (1) trade samples without commercial value; (2) merchandise not intended for sale whose declared consumer value c. & f. Bujumbura is FBu 150,000 or less; (3) travelers' personal effects; and (4) gifts and supplies for diplomatic missions and United Nations agencies. These licenses, used for purposes of payment and statistical control, are automatically granted. Authorization to import goods for sale using the importer's own foreign exchange is subject to prior payment of customs duties in foreign exchange. Such authorization is granted to approved importers in the form of li- censes not involving purchase of official foreign exchange. 76 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI 77 Importers have been instructed not to order abroad certain goods of which domestic stocks are adequate or that are produced locally. Applications for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic of Burundi through an authorized bank. The approval of such an application also constitutes an authorization to obtain foreign exchange. With specified exceptions, authorized banks approve ap- plications for licenses with a value not exceeding FBu 10 million (c. & f. point of landing); applications for amounts in excess of FBu 10 million require the approval of the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. A license is valid for eight months starting from the day of its validation, but extensions may be granted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. An admin- istrative fee amounting to 1 percent of the f .o .b. value of the goods is collected at the time of valida- tion of the license. All goods imported into Burundi must be insured by approved Burundi insurers, and premiums must be paid in Burundi francs. All con- signments of imports exceeding FBu 1 million in value ( f .o .b .) are subject to preshipment inspection with regard to quality, quantity, packaging, and price by international private agencies acting on be- half of the Burundi authorities. In principle, foreign exchange is made available at the time of shipment of the goods. For goods under global licenses, foreign exchange is not made avail- able until after customs clearance. All imports are subject to a service tax of 4 percent ad valorem, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with a Burundi insurer. Upon presentation of evidence of payment of taxes, foreign nationals residing and working in Burundi are permitted to transfer freely up to 50 percent of their net annual income. The permit- ted annual transfer is 60 percent of income for ex- perts working for the Government under individual employment contracts containing a transfer clause and receiving remuneration entirely in Burundi francs. Private joint-stock companies may freely and im- mediately transfer a portion of the return on foreign capital and of the share allocated to foreign direc- tors, not exceeding 50 percent of the distributed profits for industrial and agricultural enterprises and 50 percent for commercial and service enter- prises, net of corporation tax and the tax on capital income. Up to 50 percent of emoluments'and divi- dends paid to foreign directors and auditors are transferable if the recipients are residents, and up to 100 percent if they are nonresidents. Requests for transfer of the balance of the profits are authorized subsequently as follows: 50 percent after two years of saving, 60 percent after four years, and 100 per- cent after five years. Profits awaiting remittance are required to be invested or saved at the Treasury, public agencies, public authorities, or financial in- stitutions that manage savings; and interest earned on such deposits is eligible for transfer. However, these provisions are without prejudice to any larger transfer guarantees granted by the Investment Code to enterprises that have been accorded special preferential status. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are autho- rized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unremitted savings or the sale proceeds of their personal effects. Transfer of rental income from foreign owners of new commercial, industrial, and office buildings is permitted up to 50 percent of net rental income (after payment of taxes and deduction of 20 percent for maintenance expenses); the remainder, plus any accrued inter- est, may be transferred later, provided that the funds have been held on deposit with a domestic financial institution for two years. Transfer of up to 50 percent is permitted after at least three years of placement in investment or savings bonds. Residents may apply for exchange needed for foreign travel. There is no fixed limit on the amount that may be allocated, which depends on the nature of the travel. All travelers may take out up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi bank notes. In addition, resi- dents may freely purchase foreign travel tickets against payment in Burundi francs. Nonresidents staying in a hotel or guest house in Burundi must pay their hotel bills by selling foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi or by using a credit card. Payment in Bu- rundi francs is, however, acceptable in the case of guests for whom a resident company or individual has assumed responsibility with prior authorization by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi, and in the case of nationals of Zaire or Rwanda who produce declarations of means of payment issued under the auspices of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports valued above FBu 10,000 require a prior declaration, which must be presented for certifica- tion by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi through ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 78 BURUNDI an authorized bank. Declarations are valid for six months, but extensions may be granted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Payments must be col- lected within 90 days of the date of export declara- tion at customs. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within eight days of their collection. Exports of arabica and robusta coffee from the Rumonge region are the monopoly of the Burundi Coffee Company. Vir- tually all exports are subject to export taxes; however, coffee exports have been exempt from the export tax since 1981. Exports of manufactured goods may receive a refund of duties paid, provided that they incorporate raw materials on which import duty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign bank notes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi bank notes. Capital The Investment Code of August 25,1967 provides tax and other benefits for domestic and foreign pri- vate investors. A new Investment Law, adopted on July 10, 1986, revised some of the investment pro- cedures. Under the Investment Code new invest- ments that fulfill specified conditions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the invest- ment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, during a period of five years, for other merchandise needed for the manufacturing process or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may likewise be reduced or suspended for up to eight years. Enterprises accorded priority status may be granted reduction or suspension of export taxes and import taxes on equipment and raw mate- rials for renewable periods of five years. In addition to these privileges, companies undertaking invest- ments that are considered to be of prime importance to Burundi's economic development may be granted, under a separate agreement, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be in- creased for ten years. An investment commission under the Planning Secretariat is responsible for examining requests for priority status and granting the necessary authorization. In addition, under the new law, Burundi guarantees each foreign investor the right to move into the country; foreign investors are also assured an allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of raw materials abroad as well as for the repayment of loans taken out under the investment agreement. Capital transfers by residents and transfers of foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted require individual authorization. The guarantee is furnished for foreign exchange imported by resident enterprises to provide work- ing capital in foreign exchange; it applies to any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi and is valid for a one-year period and is renewable. The guarantee provides for the transfer of the original amount surrendered at the official rate ruling on the day of transfer. Under the new law, Burundi also guarantees the repatriation of in- vested capital in the event of sale or shutdown of the business. Gold All physical or juridical persons holding gold min- ing permits issued by the Ministers responsible for Mining and Customs may open purchasing houses for gold mined by artisans in Burundi. Gold pro- duced by artisans may be sold only to approved houses. Exports of gold must be declared in Bu- rundi francs at the average monthly rates communi- cated by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Gold exports are authorized jointly by the Mining and Customs Departments. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement February 25. The Burundi franc was devalued from FBu 161.0 to FBu 177.1 per SDR 1. Subse- quently, the exchange rate was adjusted on several occasions, and on August 1, it was adjusted to FBu 201.0 per SDR 1. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The customs tariff rate on manufac- tured products was changed from 50 percent to 45 percent and, on intermediate goods, from 15 percent to 20 percent. April 1. Quantitative controls on the importation of luxury goods were eliminated and replaced with customs duties. April 1. Commercial banks were authorized to approve import licenses up to a value of FBu 10 million. October 6. The duty drawback procedure for ex- porters was simplified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cameroon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BE AC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency con- cerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.50 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government opera- tions, payments for imports covered by a duly is- sued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled re- payments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances paid by the Government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of reinsurance premiums. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Cam- eroon's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Com- oros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers in excess of CFAF 500,000 to countries of the French Franc Area must be de- clared to the authorities for statistical purposes. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Forward exchange cover requires the prior autho- rization of the exchange control authorities. It must be denominated in the currency of settlement pre- scribed in the contract, and the maturity period must not exceed nine months. Settlement must be effected within eight days of the maturity date of the forward contract. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Economic Controls and External Finance in !The CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions re- lating to all countries must be effected through au- thorized intermediaries —that is, the Postal Admin- istration and authorized banks. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Since Cameroon is an Operations Account coun- try, settlements with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settle- ments between Cameroon and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when mailed to the National Directorate of the BEAC in Yaounde by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. The import from all sources of certain "controlled" goods requires a special authorization (autorisation speciale d'importation), in addition to an import li- cense. All other imports, irrespective of origin, are subject to licensing when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more (CFAF 1 million or more in the case of large retail stores), but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Import transactions by residents in- volving goods for use outside Cameroon must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final desti- nation. Settlements for imports effected under an import license benefit from the authorization of un- interrupted transfer given to the authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Op- erations Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permit- ted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permit- ted freely, subject to declaration, when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange alloca- tion of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining af ter return to Cameroon must be surrendered. For busi- ness travel, the corresponding allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a max- imum of CFAF 450,000 a trip. In practice, additional allocations may be allowed. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited, in princi- ple, to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and management of real property abroad are nor- mally limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. Depending on family sta- tus, the transfer of 20 percent or 50 percent of the salary of a foreigner working in Cameroon is per- mitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within one month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Cam- eroon temporarily, payments of insurance pre- miums to foreign countries are not permitted if the same type of insurance is available in Cameroon. Resident and nonresident travelers to countries out- side the French Franc Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BEAC bank notes. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may, subject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Proceeds from ex- ports to all countries must be repatriated within 15 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract, and proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered within a month after collection. Payments for exports must be made within 30 days from the arrival date of the merchan- dise at its destination. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange con- trol. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Emigrants to countries outside the French Franc Area may transfer abroad their full savings, provided that they have met their tax obligations. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Cameroon, the controls on capital movements do not apply to rela- tions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All foreign se- curities and titles embodying claims on nonresi- dents must be deposited with an authorized inter- mediary and be classified as foreign, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take 2Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON 81 the form of a capital increase resulting from rein- vestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments requires only a report after the fact to the Minister of Finance, un- less the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment abroad. Foreign di- rect investments in Cameroon3 require prior dec- laration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from rein- vestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Cameroon requires only reporting to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Cameroo- nian investments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Fi- nance within 20 days following each operation. Di- rect investments are defined as investments imply- ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires prior autho- rization by the Minister of Finance and must subse- quently be reported to him. Exempt from authoriza- tion, however, and subject only to a report after the fact are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Cameroonian Gov- ernment, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Cameroon has already been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from this authorization, and require only a report: (1) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the fi- nancing of commercial transactions either between Including those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of foreign companies. Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by physical and juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The follow- ing are, however, exempt from prior authorization, and require only a report: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or be- tween foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not ex- ceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 percent a year. Under the Investment Code promulgated in July 1984 and revised in 1985, four categories of fiscal benefits may be granted to foreign and domes- tic firms undertaking new projects in the agri- cultural, livestock, forestry, tourism, construction, public works, mining, and industrial equipment maintenance sectors. The Investment Code aims to promote sectors considered strategic in the develop- ment plan, to generate employment and foreign exchange, and to diversify economic activity geo- graphically. The type and duration of benefits vary according to, inter alia, the size of the investment, the location of the enterprise, the economic activity undertaken, the factor mix, and the production techniques employed. Category A benefits, to last over a period of ten years, apply to promotional enterprises investing over the period no less than CFAF 500 million and satisfying a number of prerequisites. The benefits consist of the reduction (to 5 percent) of taxes and duties on imported goods and their exemption on domestic purchases of equipment, spare parts, and raw materials. Category B benefits, which apply to firms in priority sectors investing no less than CFAF 2.5 billion, include, in addition to those under Category A, a number of other fiscal benefits related to property transfers and amortizations for a period of five years. Category C benefits apply to small- and medium-size enterprises with an investment level of not more than CFAF 500 million over a ten-year period and are at least 65 percent ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 CAMEROON Cameroonian-owned. Benefits include exemption from a number of asset and income levies. The duration of the benefits extends to 15 years for firms operating outside the areas of highest industrial concentration. Finally, under Category D, strategic firms investing over CFAF 5 billion in 5 years may enjoy the same benefits as under Category B and are guaranteed the maintenance of the fiscal regime for 15 years. Ordinance No. 73/27 of August 30, 1973 provided that public entities should hold at least one third of the share capital of each banking institution and that the headquarters of each banking institu- tion should be in Cameroon. This ordinance also required banks with foreign majority participation to submit to the monetary authorities information on all their current transactions abroad and to ob- tain prior approval for any changes in the structure of their equity holdings. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the ap- proval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is normally given only to industrial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of man- ufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub- ject to customs declaration. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Canada is the Canadian Dollar. The Canadian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market; however, the authorities intervene from time to time to main- tain orderly conditions in that market. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The closing interbank market rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31,1988 was Can$0.83879 per US$1. For- ward exchange rates are similarly determined in the market, and it is not the practice of the authorities to intervene. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. On March 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required only for certain drugs; a few agricultural items; certain textile prod- ucts, clothing, and footwear; certain endangered species of fauna and flora; natural gas; and material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy. Import licenses are required for carbon and specialty steel products for monitoring purposes only. For some agricultural items, such as certain dairy products, licenses are generally not issued. Commercial imports of certain commodities from any source are tightly controlled or prohibited; the main products affected are oleomargarine and used automobiles. Imports of clothing and certain textile products from low-cost sources are subject to bilat- eral agreements concluded under the Multifiber Ar- rangement (MFA) that was negotiated within the framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Japan and the Republic of Korea monitor their automobile exports to Canada in order to avoid disruption of the Canadian market. able. For security reasons, there is export control on strategic goods to all destinations except the United States. All exports to Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic and East Berlin, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam are subject to control, although certain goods of Cana- dian origin may be exported to these destinations under the authority of a general export permit. All exporters are eligible for certain financial facilities operated by the Export Development Corporation (EDC), including political risk insurance. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on exchange payments for, or exchange receipts from, invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Apart from specific restrictions in the financial, broadcasting, and uranium sectors, in- ward direct investment is governed by the Invest- ment Canada Act. Under the provisions of this Act, new foreign investments are in general subject to notification requirements but not to review, and direct acquisition of businesses with assets exceed- ing Can$5 million and indirect acquisitions involv- ing assets exceeding Can$50 million are subject to review. In addition, acquisitions below these limits and investments to establish new businesses in culturally sensitive sectors may be reviewed. Invest- ments that are subject to review are required only to pass a test of yielding net benefit to Canada. There are no controls over outward direct investment, nor over inward or outward portfolio investment. Al- though higher ratios may be authorized on a case- by-case basis, in general the domestic assets of a foreign-owned bank operating in Canada must not exceed 20 times its authorized capital; the total do- mestic assets of all such banks must not exceed 16 percent of the total domestic assets of all banks operating in Canada.1 Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds from exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely dispos- 1 Under the Canada-United States free trade agreement, reg- ulations concerning acquisitions are subject to review, and re- strictions with respect to market shares and asset growth of U.S. bank subsidiaries will be liberalized. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 84 CANADA Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. However, exports of gold and all other products containing gold to countries named in the Area Control List require an export permit from the Minister of Exter- nal Affairs, under the authority of the Export and Import Permits Act. Gold of U.S. origin requires a permit when re-exported to all countries except the United States. Commercial imports of articles con- taining minor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Legal tender gold coins with a face value of Can$100 have been issued annually since 1976, and Can$50 "bullion" coins, containing one ounce of gold, have also been issued since 1979. Beginning in 1982, Can$10 and Can$5 coins containing lk and Vio ounce of gold, respectively, have also been issued; since 1986, a half-ounce coin with a face value of Can$50 has been issued. Changes During 1988 Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement January 2. A free trade agreement between Can- ada and the United States, subject to ratification by the legislatures of both countries, was signed. The agreement is designed to eliminate tariff and non- tariff barriers on most goods and services, to liberal- ize trade rules and secure market access, to reduce impediments to investment, to establish pro- cedures and institutions for the administration of the agreement and the resolution of disputes, and to lay the foundation for fu tu re expansion of the agreement. (The agreement was ratified on Decem- ber 30, 1988.) Imports and Import Payments January 29. The investigation into allegations of injurious dumping of carbon steel welded pipe was terminated following the acceptance of price under- takings from Brazil, Luxembourg, Poland, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. Products from Belgium and France were found to be not dumped. February 5. Countervailing duties on imports of grain corn from the United States were reduced from Can$l. 10 a bushel to Can$0.46 a bushel follow- ing a public interest inquiry by the Canadian Import Tribunal. February 26. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of photograph albums with pocket sheets from the People's Republic of China, the Federal Republic of Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, and Taiwan Province of China following a finding of injury by the Canadian Import Tribunal. March 18. The Canadian Import Tribunal found no injury with regard to imports of recreational vehicle doors from the United States. March 23. The Canadian Import Tribunal found no injury with regard to imports of motor vehicles from Korea. April 5. Provisional antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of stainless steel butt-weld fittings from Japan following a preliminary determination of injurious dumping by Revenue Canada. June 6. The imposition of antidumping duties on soda ash from the United States, which began in July 1983, was terminated. June 30. The imposition of antidumping duties on countertop microwave ovens from Japan, the Re- public of Korea, and Singapore, which began in March 1982, was terminated. July 27. The imposition of antidumping duties on stainless steel plate from Belgium, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Sweden, and the United Kingdom, which began in March 1983, was terminated. July 29. Definitive antidumping duties were im- posed on barbed wire from Poland following a find- ing of injury by the Canadian Import Tribunal. Augusts. Definitive antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of stainless steel butt-weld fittings from Japan following a finding of injury by the Ca- nadian Import Tribunal. August 22. The imposition of antidumping duties on handsaw blades from the United States, intro- duced in February 1983, was terminated. August 23. The imposition of antidumping duties on ladies' handbags from Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, and Taiwan Province of China, introduced in November 1977, was terminated. September 1. Tariffs on five specialized woven fab- rics used in the manufacture of apparel were re- moved temporarily (until June 30, 1989). September 30. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on imports of sour cherries from the United States following a preliminary determina- tion of injurious dumping by Revenue Canada. October 6. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on imports of fresh red delicious and golden delicious apples from the United States fol- lowing a preliminary determination of injurious dumping by Revenue Canada. November 30. The phased removal of quotas on ladies' and girls' footwear, introduced in 1985, was completed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA 85 December 6. The imposition of antidumping duties on porcelain insulators from Japan and the United States, introduced in January 1985, was terminated. December 7. The imposition of antidumping duties on camping tents from the People's Republic of China and the German Democratic Republic, intro- duced in October 1977 and October 1984, respec- tively, was terminated. Decembers. The imposition of antidumping duties on abrasion-resistant steel pipe from the United States, introduced in February 1985, was terminated. December 12. The antidumping investigation on grinding balls from the United States was sus- pended following the acceptance of a price under- taking by the exporter. December 15. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on padded clothes hangers from Tai- wan Province of China and the United States. December 29. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on polyphase induction motors above 200 h.p. from Brazil, France, Japan, Sweden, Taiwan Province of China, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Provisional countervailing duties were also imposed on the same motors from Brazil. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde Escudo, which is pegged to a weighted basket of currencies representing nine important trading partners. The exchange rate of the Cape Verde es- cudo in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U.S. dollar and the other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1988, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were C.V. Esc 73.36 and C.V. Esc 73.97, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Department of Foreign Relations and Exchange Control (DRE), which is a department of the Bank of Cape Verde (the central bank). All im- ports, exports, and re-exports are subject to licens- ing, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 10,000. Foreign exchange transactions, includ- ing the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds, are effected through the central bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The central bank determines the currency in which export proceeds should be repatriated. Cape Verde has bilateral payments agreements with An- gola and Sao Tome and Principe. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open demand deposit ac- counts in local currency. These accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from the sale or surrender of receipts of convertible currencies and may be debited for payment of any obligations in Cape Verde. Outward transfers of balances from such accounts may be made freely. Embassies and foreign officials of embassies are required to open special accounts in foreign currency and in local currency; such accounts must be replenished ex- clusively with foreign exchange. Special Accounts (Emigrants) Three types of special interest-bearing deposit accounts are available for emigrants: (1) foreign ex- change deposit accounts; (2) savings-credit deposit accounts; and (3) special accounts in Cape Verde escudos. These accounts can be credited only with convertible foreign currencies. Holders of savings- credit deposit accounts can benefit from loans on special terms for financing small-scale projects. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 10,000. Li- censes, which are issued by the General Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Transportation, Trade and Tourism, require the visa of the central bank and are generally valid for 90 days; they are renewable. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license has been previously certified by the central bank. Licenses are in general granted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other development-related equipment. Imports of nonessentials are restricted. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior authori- zation. Any person traveling abroad may take out foreign currency equivalent to C.V. Esc 20,000. Cape Verdean nationals traveling abroad as tourists are required to buy round-trip tickets in advance and make a deposit equivalent to a one-way ticket to the country of destination; this deposit is refunded upon return to Cape Verde. Cape Verdean nationals studying abroad are allowed up to a maximum of C.V. Esc 20,000 on leaving the country; students who do not hold scholarships are, in addition, en- titled to a monthly allowance that varies according to the country of destination. Persons traveling abroad on business may take an amount of foreign currency that varies according to the country of destination and the duration of each business trip. Persons traveling abroad for medical treatment may take out an amount of foreign currency that varies in accordance with medical needs. Applications for 86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE 87 these allowances must be accompanied by medical certification prior to the trip, and medical bills must be presented on return to Cape Verde. Transfers by foreign technical assistance person- nel working in Cape Verde are authorized within the limits specified in the individual contracts. These contracts, as well as other contracts involving foreign exchange expenditures, are subject to prior screening by the central bank. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. The export of domestic currency by travelers is pro- hibited. Foreign travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency, but may re-export only up to the amount of currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing and to ap- proval by the central bank, except for transactions not exceeding C.V. Esc 10,000. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months from the date of issuance of the license, but this period may be extended. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. The import of Cape Verdean bank notes is prohibited. Capital Any private capital transaction must be approved in advance by the central bank, but legally imported capital may be re-exported without limitation. The export of resident-owned capital is not normally permitted. Gold Imports, exports, or re-exports of gold either in coin or bars require prior licensing by the monetary authorities. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Central African Republic is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies con- cerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Central African Republic do not apply to (1) France (and its Over- seas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, the Com- oros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control All draft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts having a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the State require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his ap- proval authority to the Director of the Budget. The Autonomous Amortization Fund (CAADE) in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing abroad, and the Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the same ministry supervises lending abroad, issuing, advertising, or offering for sale foreign securities in the Central African Republic, and inward and out- ward direct investment. Exchange control is admin- istered by the Minister of Finance, who has dele- gated some of his approval authority to the BEAC,2 to the authorized banks, and to the Postal Admin- istration. All exchange transactions relating to for- eign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Export declarations are to be made through the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are to be made through the BEAC. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since the Central African Republic is an Opera- tions Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are Foreign Ac- counts in Francs. BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de FOuest (BCEAO) may be credited freely to For- eign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are suspended. Imports from all other countries are neither subject to licensing requirements nor to quotas. Imports of firearms are prohibited irrespective of origin. Im- port declarations are required for all imports, and all import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. irThe CFA franc circulating in the Central African Republic is issued by the Banque des Etats de VAfrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. 2The authority delegated to the BEAC relates to (1) control over the external position of the banks, (2) the granting of exceptional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and (3) control over the repatriation of net export proceeds. 88 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 89 Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to autho- rized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require autho- rization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an ex- change allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; of this alloca- tion, an amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 may be taken out in foreign bank notes. Any exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 that remains after return to the Central African Republic must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign coun- tries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to certain listed countries; the allocation for business travel to any other foreign country is CFAF 15,000 a day, up to CFAF 150,000 a trip; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 5,000 may be taken out in for- eign bank notes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Central African Republic is permit- ted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign cur- rency and other foreign means of payment up to the amount declared by them on entry; they may recon- vert up to CFAF 50,000 in BEAC bank notes into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are suspended. All exports require a declaration. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatri- ated within one month from the due date; the latter must not be later than 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authoriza- tion is obtained. Export proceeds received in cur- rencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within a month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident trav- elers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central African Republic and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require exchange control approval and are re- stricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrowing by the Gov- ernment or its public and semipublic enterprises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a government guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Direc- tor of the Budget. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in the Central African Republic; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduction of for- eign securities in the Central African Republic, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take 3Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Central African Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central African Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 90 CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC the form of a capital increase resulting from rein- vestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participa- tion that had previously been approved as constitut- ing a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct in- vestments in the Central African Republic4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from rein- vestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion during which he may request postponement. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Central African Republic must also be de- clared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had pre- viously been approved as constituting a direct in- vestment in the Central African Republic. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Central African Republic invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in the Central African Republic, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct in- vestments are defined as investments implying con- trol of a company or an enterprise. Mere participa- tion is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Fi- nance. Exempt from authorization, however, are op- erations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Central African Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Cen- tral African Republic of juridical persons whose reg- istered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the render- including those made by companies in the Central African Republic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in the Central African Republic. ing of services abroad by the persons or firms men- tioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central African Re- public and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which those persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Re- public, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks, and (2) other loans when the total amount outstanding of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of Decem- ber 14, 1965, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and mining enterprises (both foreign and domestic) es- tablished in the Central African Republic are granted, under certain conditions, a reduction in duties and taxes on the import of specified equip- ment; in addition, certain enterprises receive ex- emption from direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of pref- erential treatment (A, B, and C), in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expan- sion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Industry, who is the Chairman of the Investment Commission, which considers the ap- plication. If a positive decision is given by the Com- mission, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC 91 and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central African Republic. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchasing office. Exempt from prior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan- tity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Certain companies have been officially appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Import, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chad is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers abroad, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Ter- ritories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. However, they must be declared and be made only through autho- rized banks and with bank checks. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official or the commercial bank- ing sector. Administration of Control The Office of the Minister of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and outward direct investment; it also issues import and export authorizations for gold. Exchange control is administered by the Min- ister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority in part to the External Finance and Ex- change Control Subdirectorate, which exercises this authority through instructions issued to the autho- irThe CFA franc circulating in Chad is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. rized intermediaries. All exchange transactions re- lating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Chad is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mon- aco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited freely to Foreign Ac- counts in Francs maintained by the foreign corre- spondent of an authorized bank, provided that the notes are mailed to the BEAC agency in Chad by the correspondent bank concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Im- ports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from all sources require licenses. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area and from Euro- pean Communities (EC) countries (the original member states), other than France, may be made freely. All imports from non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange re- quired to implement it are determined by the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry on the basis of pro- posals drawn up by the Committee on Imports. The import program contains global quotas for imports from non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area and a special quota for imports of cotton textiles from countries with abnormal competitive advantages. In addition, the program contains 92 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 93 global quotas for imports of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar from EC countries, countries in the French Franc Area, as well as other countries. Specified imports from certain neighboring countries not be- longing to the French Franc Area up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year in each direction for a single importer may be made through compensation transactions. The issuance of import licenses for sugar and a specified brand of cigarettes has been suspended until further notice. All import transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary ex- change, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Forward cover for imports from foreign countries is permitted only for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the Office of the Minister of Economy and Commerce. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment, the approval authority has been delegated to autho- rized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require autho- rization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when bona fide. Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year. This allocation is increased by the equiv- alent of CFAF 50,000 for each child under 10 years of age. For pilgrimage to Mecca, an additional alloca- tion of the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 may be granted. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a daily allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 60,000, with a maximum allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 500,000 a person a trip; the External Finance and Exchange Control Depart- ment may approve additional amounts. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank notes; the limit for chil- dren under 10 years of age is CFAF 5,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, in addition to amounts remitted from for- eign bank accounts. If no declaration has been made, they may take out up to the equivalent of CFAF 150,000, in addition to a maximum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All ex- ports to non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses. Specified exports to certain neighboring countries, including Nigeria and Sudan, may be made through compensation trans- actions. Exports of cotton are the monopoly of the Societe Cotonniere du Tchad. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surren- dered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days of the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and be surrendered if received in a foreign currency, within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if re- ceived in foreign currency, be surrendered within two months of the due date. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) and other foreign means of pay- ment. Foreign bank notes and coin in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 brought in by residents must be exchanged for CFA francs within eight days of their return. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital re- ceipts from such countries are permitted freely. All ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 94 CHAD foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles em- bodying claims on foreign countries or nonresi- dents that are held in Chad by residents or nonresi- dents must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable or sus- pended insofar as they would be contrary to the exchange control regulations) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or introduc- tion of foreign securities in Chad, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior ap- proval of the Minister of Finance, irrespective of the method of financing; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in Chad3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a mixed-economy en- terprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct in- vestments in Chad must also be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Chadian in- vestments abroad or foreign investments in Chad, must be reported to the Minister within 30 days of each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from autho- rization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance. The following are, including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Chad and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Chad. Including those made by companies in Chad that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of foreign companies. however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the render- ing of services abroad by the persons or firms men- tioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of the loan does not exceed CFAF 10 mil- lion for any one borrower, with an interest rate not higher than 7 percent and a maturity of two years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be declared to the Minister within 30 days of the operation. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose reg- istered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 5 million for any one lender. The making of loans referred to under (2) that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister within 30 days of the operation. Commercial banks must maintain in Chad a spec- ified minimum proportion of their assets. Under the Investment Code published on De- cember 9,1987, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under cer- tain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on spec- ified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code provides for four categories of enterprises which would receive various forms of preferential treatment, in accor- dance with which certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Re- quests for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Finance who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Com- mission. After an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD 95 Gold Chad has issued gold coins with face values of CFAF 1,000, CFAF 3,000, CFAF 5,000, CFAF 10,000, and CFAF 20,000, which are legal tender. Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold un- worked gold unless specifically authorized. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization by the Ministry of Fi- nance and by the Directorate of Energy, Mines, and Geology, as well as the visa of the External Finance Department. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of man- ufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Ex- ports of unworked gold and of raw diamonds (as well as domestic purchases and sales of both) are the monopoly of the Office for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports, which is an approved private company. Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean Peso (Ch$). The official exchange rate of the Chilean peso is pegged to the U.S. dollar, at a rate adjusted at daily intervals according to a schedule established on the basis of the domestic rate of inflation during the previous month, less the estimated world rate of inflation. On December 30, 1988, the official ex- change rate was Ch$249.70 per US$1. Foreign ex- change dealers, the Banco del Estado, commercial banks, exchange houses, and other authorized en- tities are free to trade in foreign exchange at any price. However, the Central Bank intervenes in the foreign exchange market when the upper or lower limit (3 percent on either side of the official rate) is reached. Since January 1, 1986, commercial banks have been authorized to provide a forward market for foreign exchange with a maturity of between 15 and 180 days. On maturity, contracts are settled in pesos on the basis of the difference between the market rate and the contract rate. Contract rates are deter- mined freely without intervention by the Central Bank. The regulations impose limits on banks' gross forward purchases and on their net exposure both overall and in individual currencies. The Central Bank provides forward cover against exchange risk in the form of currency swaps. The maturity periods of forward transactions range from 5 days to 720 days. Direct transactions in foreign exchange among private parties can take place at freely nego- tiated exchange rates, provided that they are occa- sional and unpublicized. Commissions on exchange transactions are subject to a 16 percent value-added tax. The exchange rates of the Chilean peso with other currencies are determined on the basis of the peso exchange rate with respect to the U.S. dollar and of the U.S. dollar exchange rate with respect to other currencies quoted in foreign markets. The Central Bank has provided an exchange sub- sidy on service payments on some debts contracted prior to August 6, 1982 (the original amount of the debt was about US$8 million). The following have access to the subsidy: (1) debtors to Chilean banks or financial companies whose debt is indexed to the official exchange rate; and (2) debtors with direct obligations abroad whose obligations were regis- tered with the Central Bank. The subsidy is paid by means of notes indexed to inflation with a minimum maturity of six years, and carrying a 3 percent rate of interest. On December 30, 1988, the difference be- tween the official rate and the subsidized rate was Ch$70 .7pe rUS$ l. Administration of Control The Executive Committee of the Central Bank is responsible for carrying out currency exchange pol- icy. The Chilean Copper Commission is responsible for the supervision of copper exports and all imports of the copper industry; this supervision has to be exercised in accordance with general rules enacted by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Co- lombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central banks of each of the countries concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Settlements with the Domini- can Republic must be made through clearing ac- counts established under a reciprocal credit agree- ment. Settlements with other countries take place in specified convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free, with the exception of used motor vehicles. Most imports require a document (known as Informe de Importation) issued by the Cen- tral Bank, which must be obtained and processed through the intermediary local commercial bank. Payment for visible trade transactions is not permit- ted unless an Informe de Importation has been issued. Imports valued more than US$20,000 are subject to a 120-day minimum financing requirement. Im- porters may purchase spot exchange before the pay- ment date and place a deposit in foreign exchange at the Central Bank in anticipation of payment. Im- ports on deferred payment terms (cobertura dif- erida)—that is, on credit terms exceeding 360 days — require prior authorization of the credit terms by the Central Bank. Virtually all imports are subject to a registration tax of up to 3 percent of value, which is offset against the applicable import duty. Since Jan- uary 4,1988, imports are subject to a uniform 15 per- cent tar iff rate, with some exceptions. Exceptions include tar iffs bound under the General Agreement 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 97 on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and ta r i f fs negotiated with LAI A countries. A few items are exempted from the general tar iff regime. Imports of some dairy products, such as condensed and powdered milk, butter, and cheese, are subject to specific du- ties and to a customs valuation regime based on European Communities (EC) internal prices for these products. Since May 2, 1984, imports of wheat, edible oil, and sugar have been subject to a special regime involving price bands within which the after-duty price has to remain. In addition, tariff duties or surcharges are applied, on a temporary basis, on imports of certain products that are sub- sidized in the country of origin. Payments for Invisibles Specified allowances exist for certain transactions; central bank authorization is required for others. The authorization is provided upon presentation of appropriate documentation. The established limit for tourist travel (in addition to the fares) is the equivalent of US$1,000 a trip for travel to Latin America and Caribbean countries and of US$3,000 a trip to other countries. For travel by land to neigh- boring destinations, 20 percent of the allowance is provided in the form of foreign exchange, and the rest, in money orders. Higher amounts for travel other than tourism may be authorized by the Cen- tral Bank of Chile, upon presentation of adequate justification. Residents may purchase up to US$200 a month for study abroad, subscriptions to magazines, books, and pension payments, subject to presenta- tion of appropriate documents. Higher amounts may be authorized by the Central Bank of Chile, upon presentation of adequate justification. Insur- ance activities within the country are limited to Chilean companies or to authorized foreign companies. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities may be freely exported. All for- eign exchange proceeds from exports in excess of US$1,000 must be surrendered through commercial banks, which are required to advise the Director of Foreign Trade of the Central Bank immediately (the Chilean Copper Commission in the case of copper). Commercial banks are authorized to purchase all foreign exchange proceeds spot from exporters. Ex- porters are allowed to retain from 2 percent to 5 per- cent of export proceeds in a special Foreign Ex- change Account, but the cumulative deposits in any such account during a 12-month period may not exceed US$500,000. Receipts from exports of CODELCO (the state copper mines) must be depos- ited in a special foreign currency account at the Central Bank. Export proceeds subject to surrender require- ments must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of shipment and surrendered within 10 days. However, export proceeds may be surrendered within 180 days f rom the date of shipment if they are held as swaps or foreign exchange deposits with resident banks. Extension of repatriation periods may be granted for certain products. As a means of expediting the operation of the drawback system in respect of small export values, exporters of eligible items (approximately 6 percent of the country's annual exports), whose average annual exports in 1983 and 1984 were less than or equal to US$2.5 million, have an option of taking a subsidy, in lieu of benefits under the existing import du ty drawback scheme; alternatively, such export- ers may avail themselves of the provisions of Decree No. 409, under which they may draw back their payments of duties on imported inputs. At the end of December 1988, this subsidy was equal to 8 per- cent of the net export value of sales for those export- ers whose annual export value was less than or equal to US$8.1 million and 5 percent for those exporters whose annual export value was between US$8.1 million and US$12.1 million. Proceeds from Invisibles In general, foreign exchange proceeds from invis- ibles must be surrendered only when required by a legal provision. Such is the case for commissions, proceeds f rom insurance, and other benefits related to foreign trade. There are no similar rules concern- ing the proceeds from royalties and copyright fees, family remittances, and the surplus foreign ex- change f rom travel allocations. Capital Capital inflows are generally free, but most out- flows are restricted. All new foreign borrowing or refinancing of existing credits by commercial banks requires prior approval by the Central Bank; the exceptions to this regulation are lines of credit of up to one-year maturity with foreign correspondents, and short-term loans for domestic relending. Short- term loans are subject to a limit determined mainly by a bank's capital and reserves. However, the Cen- tral Bank must still be notified of foreign borrowings even if they do not require its approval. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of the following arrangements, depending on the purpose and type of the investment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 98 CHILE (1) Article 14 of Decree No. 471 of October 17,1977 stipulates, inter alia, that capital brought into the country in the form of foreign borrowing (creditos externos) must be sold through authorized banks when the investor (individual or corporate, national or foreign) has registered the transaction with the Central Bank. There is no minimum term on the maturity of foreign borrowing. Repatriation nor- mally is allowed only in accordance with the amor- tization schedule established at the time of regis- tration. Accelerated payments or extensions of payment are subject to special authorization. (2) Article 15 of the same decree authorizes the Central Bank to make exemptions to the general rules enacted by it concerning the inflow and out- flow of capital or credits. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of July 7, 1974 (amended by Decree-Law No. 1748 of March 18, 1977), the Foreign Investment Statute, establishes a regime for long-term capital investment. Authorization to make a foreign exchange investment in Chile is granted by the Foreign Investment Committee through a contract containing undertakings that the investment program will normally not exceed eight years for mining and three years for other projects. Investments of less than US$5 million may be ap- proved by the Executive Secretary of the Commit- tee, with a few exceptions. There are no general limitations on profit remittances, but specific agree- ments in this regard may be included in the above- mentioned investment contract. Capital may be repatriated after three years unless specified other- wise in the investment contract. Foreign investors can opt for a guaranteed 49.5 percent a year total corporation income tax over a period of ten years, or may subject themselves to a tax system similar to that which is applied to domestic corporations. (Ac- cording to this system, foreign investors are subject to an effective tax rate of 32.5 percent.) Any foreign credits involved must be on terms authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign capital that entered Chile prior to the promulgation of Decree-Law No. 600 and is not subject to that law continues to be subject to the regulations prevailing on the date of entry. Contract awards in the oil sector are decided by the Government under Presidential Decree; rights and responsibilities under such a Decree may be vested in the Empresa Nacional de Petroleo (ENAP) by the Ministry of Mines. (4) Chapters XVIII and XIX of the Chilean Com- pendium of Rules on International Exchange, intro- duced in May 1985 and amended several times since, regulate the purchase of selected Chilean for- eign debt instruments abroad at a discount as well as their repatriation. Eligible instruments are de- fined as external debt payable in foreign currency outside Chile with a maturity of more than one year, the debtor of which may be either the Treasury, the Central Bank, a public sector entity, the Develop- ment Corporation (CORFO), a financial institution, or a private sector resident having a guarantee from a financial institution. Chapter XIX governs the use of Chilean debt instruments by foreign residents for direct investment in Chile with remittance rights. Upon approval of the Central Bank, the foreign currency obligation is exchanged into a domestic currency obligation, the proceeds of which must be used for direct investment purposes, with the inter- mediation of a financial institution; special regula- tions apply to repatriation of such capital as well as to dividend payments. Chapter XVIII specifies the regulations for the conversion into peso assets (without remittance rights) by residents and non- residents of debt purchased at a discount abroad with foreign exchange not obtained in the official market and of private sector external debt not guar- anteed by the Government. Transactions under Chapter XVIII are also channeled through financial institutions, subject to an overall quota assigned on the basis of an auction system. Gold Chile has issued three gold coins, which are not legal tender. Monetary gold may be traded only by authorized houses, but ordinary transactions in gold between private individuals may be freely un- dertaken. Imports and exports of gold are unre- stricted, subject to compliance with the normal for- malities for import and export transactions, including registration with the Central Bank. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement April 9. New minimum amounts were set for for- eign exchange swap operations with the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments January 5. Customs duties were lowered across the board from 20 percent to 15 percent. At the same time, the maximum surcharge was raised to 20 per- cent from 15 percent, the drawback subsidy for small exporters was reduced to 8 percent from 10 percent, and the fiscal credit under the system of deferred import duty payments was lowered to 11 percent from 15 percent. June 22. Import payments were not allowed to be made before their due date, except for imports with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 99 financing exceeding 120 days, in which case pay- ments may be effected up to 5 days before the due date. June 22. Imports valued less than US$5,000 were exempted from the 120-day minimum financing requirement. November 19. Minimum customs reference prices were set for tires, tubes, and aluminum profiles. December 30. Imports valued less than US$20,000 were exempted from the 120-day minimum financ- ing requirement. Payments for Invisibles March 16. The travel allowance for trips of less than 500 kilometers to neighboring countries would henceforth be allocated partly in foreign exchange (20 percent) and partly in nontransferable money orders drawn on a bank located in that country (80 percent). May 17. Commercial banks were authorized to sell foreign exchange for the payment of premia for insurance contracted in Chile, in amounts of up to US$50,000; for insurance premia above that limit, prior authorization by the Central Bank continued to be required. October 8. Minimum customs reference prices were established for imports of blenders and certain polyester fibers. November 2. The date applicable for the allocation of travel allowances was defined as not earlier than 20 days before date of travel. Exports and Export Proceeds April 9. The period for surrender of export earn- ings was lengthened to 90 days after repatriation if those earnings in the meantime were held as swaps or foreign exchange deposits with Chilean resident banks. May 13. The import duty drawback scheme for exporters would henceforth apply to raw materials, semifinished products, and spare parts imported by exporters themselves or by other importers, if these imports were directly incorporated or used in the production of exported goods. Capital March 8. Chapter XVIII of the Exchange Laws was modified to allow debt conversions by mortgage debtors, in amounts of up to US$6,000 and without having to be subjected to the auction system, which is required for Chapter XVIII operations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of China is the Renminbi and its unit is the yuan. Since Jan- uary 1, 1986, China formally has followed an ex- change arrangement whereby the exchange rate for the renminbi is based on developments in the bal- ance of payments and in costs and exchange rates of China's major competitors, although since July 5, 1986, the exchange rate for the renminbi has not changed against the U.S. dollar. The exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and 20 other currencies are pub- lished on a daily basis by the State Administration of Exchange Control;1 on December 30,1988, the buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Y 3.7128 and Y 3.7314, respectively, per US$1. Published rates for currencies other than those that are important in China's international trans- actions are changed whenever the calculated rate diverges from the previously published rate by be- tween 0.5 percent and 1 percent. Since Novem- ber 1986, Chinese enterprises in the four economic zones of Shantou, Shenzhen, Xiamen, and Zhuhai, and foreign investment corporations have been per- mitted to transact foreign exchange in foreign ex- change adjustment centers at rates mutually agreed on between buyers and sellers under the supervi- sion of the State Administration of Exchange Con- trol (SAEC). In early 1988, all domestic entities which are allowed to retain foreign exchange earn- ings were granted permission to trade in the adjust- ment centers, and by October 1988, 80 adjustment centers were established. Initially, a relatively small volume of transactions took place in these markets, but the volume has increased substantially since access to the centers was expanded. The average exchange rate in these markets has tended to de- preciate since early 1987, from an average of Y 5.25 per US$1 in the first quarter of 1987 to Y 6.6 per US$1 at the end of 1988. Forward exchange rates are published for 15 cur- rencies.2 China does not apply a system of forward Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Iranian rials, Italian lire, Jap- anese yen, Macao patacas, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. premiums and discounts but instead uses the spot rate plus a forward charge. Forward transactions are permitted only in connection with an underlying trade transaction. When banks sell renminbi for- ward, a charge is levied; when they buy, no charge is levied except for the deutsche mark, Netherlands guilder, Japanese yen, and Swiss franc. Rates are given for one to six months; transactions can be renewed for a fur ther six months, but not for longer than one year. Forward charges reflect interest rates and trends in international markets in the curren- cies concerned. Administration of Control The People's Bank of China (PBC) exercises cen- tral bank functions and control over foreign ex- change; and the SAEC, as a government institution under the leadership of the PBC, is responsible for implementing the exchange regulations and con- trolling all foreign exchange transactions in accor- dance with state policy. There are sub-bureaus in the provinces, main municipalities, autonomous re- gions, and special economic zones. The Bank of China (BOC) is the specialized foreign exchange bank of the People's Republic of China. Other banks and financial institutions, including affiliates of nonresident banks, may handle designated transac- tions with the approval of the SAEC. Currently, 90 institutions are authorized to handle foreign ex- change transactions. The China International Trust and Investment Corporation (CITIC) is authorized to conduct transactions connected with investments of foreign capital in China. Individuals and financial institutions may hold foreign exchange but gener- ally may not deal in it or conduct arbitrage opera- tions. Special exchange control measures are ap- plied to special economic zones, the 14 designated coastal cities, and border regions. Foreign exchange transactions are generally con- ducted in accordance with a foreign exchange plan. The PBC has responsibility for foreign exchange reserves and external borrowing. Within guidelines recommended to the State Council by the PBC on balance of payments management and total exter- nal borrowing, the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade (MOFERT) prepares estimates for those parts of the foreign exchange plan dealing with foreign trade, foreign loans, and China's exter- nal assistance program; the foreign exchange bud- gets of other government departments are prepared 100 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 101 by the Ministry of Finance. The SAEC draws up the section of the plan covering local and provincial nontrade transactions, receipts from overseas Chi- nese, and individual receipts. The overall foreign exchange plan is coordinated and balanced by the State Planning Commission (SPC) and is submitted to the State Council for approval. Following ap- proval, the plan is sent back to the various localities and ministries for implementation. The SAEC is responsible for supervising the implementation of the foreign exchange plan. In principle, the foreign exchange plan covers all transactions, including those with countries with which China maintains bilateral payments agree- ments.3 The annual plan is divided into quarterly plans, and at the end of each quarter, the SAEC and SPC review the implementation of the plan and determine whether corrections are necessary. That part of the foreign exchange plan dealing with trade is broken down by commodity. Unexpected events, such as changes in foreign trade policies, might necessitate a revision of the plan. Prescription of Currency Trade transactions with Bulgaria, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. are expressed in Swiss francs, and those with Albania and Cuba, in U.S. dollars at the official exchange rate and settled through bilateral payments ar- rangements. In normal circumstances, imbalances emerging toward the end of each year are covered by increased deliveries of goods. Noncommercial transactions are settled on a current basis in convert- ible currencies, except for part of such transactions with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and Romania and all the transactions with Cuba, which pass through the clearing account. Payments to and from countries with which China has bilateral pay- ments agreements are made in currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements. In other cases, where there are no spe- cific regulations prescribing the currencies to be used in transactions, they are determined by terms agreed under the respective contracts. Bilateral trade and payments agreements are of two kinds: Type A agreements are designed to en- sure balanced trade and include, for each good itemized, quantitative commodity lists or foreign exchange quota lists for those commodities that cannot be expressed in quantitative terms; these lists are binding on both parties. Most arrange- ments are of this type. Type B agreements (those with the Islamic Republic of Iran and Sierra Leone) provide such binding itemized lists only for the principal goods traded by the parties and also in- clude nonbinding lists of secondary goods. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresidents4 in China for a short period may open nonresident accounts with the BOC and other authorized banks and financial institutions. Joint ventures may also open foreign exchange accounts and use them to make payments abroad. Foreign banks may hold convertible renminbi accounts in connection with commercial or noncommercial transactions. Renminbi may be purchased for such an account only on presentation of documentary evidence that the money will be used in the desig- nated transaction. The BOC and other authorized banks and financial institutions may check any use made of renminbi in such accounts. Foreign banks in the special economic zones may lend in foreign exchange and accept foreign currency deposits from joint-venture companies. Individuals may open resident foreign currency accounts at the BOC and may withdraw funds from such accounts in the form of foreign currency. Imports and Exports All trade, both direct and indirect, with the Re- public of Korea and South Africa is prohibited. The primary responsibility for formulating for- eign trade policies and ensuring the implementa- tion of regulations and policy measures rests with MOFERT, which also issues the licenses required for restricted imports and a large number of exports;5 following the reform in the exchange and trade sys- tem effected in early 1985, MOFERT no longer en- gages in direct foreign trade transactions and is no longer involved in the daily enterprise management of trading corporations. Foreign trade is conducted by foreign trade corporations (FTCs) and other en- tities licensed by MOFERT to conduct foreign trade. 3China maintains operative bilateral payments agreements with the following Fund members: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, and Sierra Leone. It also maintains operative bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, and the U.S.S.R. 4Nonresidents include overseas Chinese and residents of for- eign countries and of the Hong Kong and Macao regions. Foreign embassies are also included. 5MoFERT itself issues licenses for some restricted imports into Beijing; for the rest, it delegates its authority to its special com- mission offices at major ports and to its regional counterparts— commissions on foreign economic relations and trade (COFERT). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 202 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA In early 1988, control over FTCs was decentralized by making local branches of most of these corpora- tions independent entities accountable to local gov- ernment authorities and responsible for their own profits and losses under the contract responsibility system. Application of the agency system, under which companies conduct foreign trade as agents on a commission basis, was also expanded; a larger number of domestic enterprises were given the au- thority to export their products directly or to import needed materials directly. A limited number of es- sential import commodities continue to be handled by one of the 14 national foreign trade corporations. All enterprises, other than registered foreign trade corporations, need approval from the local foreign trade bureau in accordance with the autho- rization of MOFERT and a license from the local bureau for industry and commerce to engage in foreign trade. Proceeds of certain exports (joint- venture companies and 100 percent foreign-owned companies) may be retained in a foreign exchange account with the BOC or an authorized bank. All other foreign exchange earnings from exports must be repatriated and surrendered to the BOC, unless specific exception is granted by the SAEC, and may not be used directly to offset import payments. Part of the proceeds of exports (including foreign exchange earned in compensation trade) may be held as foreign exchange retention quotas6 in the SAEC or its sub-bureaus by localities and enter- prises in accordance with state regulations. The per- centage of export earnings that can be retained varies with the enterprise. Typically, domestic en- terprises are allowed to retain 25 percent of their foreign exchange earnings up to a target amount of such earnings established for each enterprise in ne- gotiations with the Central Government; the re- mainder is remitted to the Central Government. In turn, a portion of the foreign exchange retained by the enterprises has to be shared with local govern- ments. This portion is usually 12Vz percent, but it can vary depending on agreements between the local authorities and individual enterprises. Enter- prises are generally allowed to retain a major share of foreign exchange earnings in excess of targeted amounts. Foreign direct investment enterprises re- tain all of their foreign exchange earnings. In early 1988, retention quotas for domestic enter- prises in several industrial sectors (light industry, arts and crafts, clothing, and machinery) and in some regions (Hainan Island and the special eco- nomic zones) were raised. Retention quotas for 6A retention quota constitutes a right to purchase foreign exchange in the future for renminbi. these enterprises vary with the degree of processing of the goods exported up to 100 percent. Retention quotas can be traded in the foreign exchange adjust- ment centers or used for imports. The BOC provides foreign exchange for imports on the basis of import licenses and approval by the SAEC. Resi- dents may not pay for imports with local currency. Imports consist of those included in the annual import plan and those outside of the annual plan. The foreign trade plan is drawn up by MOFERT in conjunction with the SPC. The former sends direc- tives on the preparation of the plan to all foreign trade corporations and to the foreign trade bureaus in the provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions, which, in turn, meet with other interested entities and prepare lists of needed imports and goods available for export. The plans prepared at the local level are coordinated and balanced by MOFERT and the SPC at national foreign trade plan- ning conferences. The State Council grants final approval to the foreign trade plan. Goods that can be produced domestically or for which adequate domestic substitutes are available are not included in the import plan. Priority is given in the import plan to goods that cannot be produced domestically in adequate quantities and those that are urgently needed by the State, especially for key projects. In the case of some goods that are not produced in adequate quantities but for which a good foreign market exists, part of the production may be allocated to export. Imports into China are also classified into two other categories—restricted imports and unre- stricted imports.7 A number of restricted imports overlap with those included in the annual import plan.8 Import licensing serves to limit, and in some cases, prohibit imports of restricted goods that are included in the annual plan. Imports of seven as- sembly lines on the restricted list (for television sets, household refrigerators, household washing ma- chines, radio-cassette recorders, room air condi- tioners, motorcycles, and light motor vehicles) are effectively banned through the licensing system; import of these lines requires approval by the State Economic Commission, which currently does not grant approval. Apart from imports that are restricted through the licensing system, a few types of imports are explicitly banned, such as all secondhand gar- ments. Imports of poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased 7 As of October 1988, there were 46 goods on the restricted list, including 23 kinds of assembly lines counted as 1 item. 8In principle, the restricted list can change on a monthly basis. The coverage of the import plan also changes. Therefore, the degree of overlap changes over time. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 103 animals, and plants are prohibited, as is the export of valuable cultural relics and rare books, rare ani- mals, seeds and plants, and precious metals and artifacts made from these metals. In addition, the import and export of weapons, ammunition and explosives, radio receivers and transmitters, Chi- nese currency, manuscripts, printed and recorded materials, and films that are deemed to be detri- mental to Chinese political, economic, cultural, and moral interests are prohibited. All imports and ex- ports require prior inspection before release by customs at the port of entry or exit. Exports of spec- ified machine tools require a license from the State Administration for the Inspection of Import and Export Commodities, as a means of quality control. The customs regulations in force are the Provi- sional Customs Law of the People's Republic of China and the Customs Import and Export Tariff of the People's Republic of China. The tariff rates for imports fall into two categories: minimum and gen- eral. The minimum tariff rates apply to imports originating in the countries with which China has concluded trade treaties or agreements with re- ciprocal favorable tariff clauses therein;9 the general tariff rates apply to imports originating in the coun- tries with which China has not concluded trade treaties or agreements with reciprocal favorable tar- iff clauses. The duties are calculated on the basis of the c.i.f. value of imported goods. Excluding goods that are exempt from duties, goods in the general tariff rate category are subject to 17 rates ranging from 8 percent to 180 percent, and goods in the minimum tariff rate category are subject to 17 rates ranging from 3 percent to 150 percent. In addition to the import duties mentioned above, a regulatory tax on imports is applied to 15 selected products; the regulatory tax rates range from 20 percent to 80 percent. 9These countries are as follows (classified by geographical areas): (1) Africa: Benin, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Re- public, Chad, Congo, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. (2) Americas: Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Cuba, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, and United States. (3) Asia: Bangladesh, Burma, Cyprus, Iraq, Jordan, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lebanon, Mongolia, Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Sin- gapore, Sri Lanka, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Turkey, Viet Nam, Yemen Arab Republic, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. (4) Europe: Albania, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, German Democratic Republic, Federal Republic of Ger- many, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Nor- way, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, U.S.S.R., United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia. (5) Oceania: Australia and New Zealand. Imports into Tibet through border trade with the neighboring countries are subject to a separate sys- tem of customs duties established by the People's Government of the Tibet Autonomous Region. The tariff, however, applies to goods imported directly into Tibet for use only. It does not apply to imports of other provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions through Tibet, or to imports through Tibet by mail or brought in as part of the luggage carried by travelers; such imports are subject to the regular Chinese tar iff. In addition to customs duties, a consolidated in- dustrial and commercial tax (a turnover tax also applied to other commodities) is levied on imports in accordance with the list contained in the Draft Regulations of the Consolidated Industrial and Commercial Tax of the People's Republic of China. Raw materials imported for further processing are exempted from both customs duties and commer- cial taxes, provided that the products are all ex- ported within a specified period. Most imports and exports by joint ventures are exempt from customs duties. Special economic zones have been set up in Shan- tou, Shenzhen, Xiamen, and Zhuhai. Economic and technological development areas have been es- tablished in 14 designated coastal cities. Foreigners, overseas Chinese, and Chinese from the Hong Kong and Macao regions are permitted to invest in and open factories in these zones and areas. Raw mate- rials, equipment, and machinery or parts and com- ponents thereof, means of transportation, and other means of production imported by and intended to be used in the production of the enterprises in the zones are exempt from import duties and the con- solidated industrial and commercial tax. A number of restrictions are imposed on exports. Certain products (primarily raw materials and food products) are subject to export licensing. The num- ber of items subject to export licensing require- ments was reduced to 159 in July 1988, but licensing requirements were imposed on 12 additional prod- ucts in December 1988. Exports of some products are prohibited. In December, exports of 6 items (which previously were subject to licensing) were prohibited, bringing the number of items whose exportation is banned to 10. In addition, exports of a number of products are subject to duties. The num- ber of such products was increased in July and Sep- tember 1988 to 46 from 12. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Enterprises must sell their foreign exchange earn- ings from invisible transactions to the BOC and other authorized banks, except for enterprises with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 104 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA foreign investment and some foreign trade sectors designated as an experiment area for trade reforms. Foreign exchange remitted from abroad or from the Hong Kong and Macao regions to Chinese residents may be retained and used to open an account in the BOC or an authorized bank. Similarly, foreign ex- change owned by immigrants or returning Chinese before becoming residents may be retained. Such retained foreign exchange may be sold to or remit- ted through the BOC or taken out of China against certification by the BOC. All foreign exchange earned by Chinese residents when working abroad, or in the Hong Kong or Macao regions, or earned from publication fees, copyright fees, awards, subsidies, honoraria, or other premiums must be repatriated and may not be deposited abroad; but individuals may retain such earnings according to prevailing regulations. All the surrendered portion of foreign exchange remit- tances is accorded the privileged treatment given to remittances by overseas Chinese. Foreign staff members and employees of foreign joint ventures, as well as those from the Hong Kong and Macao regions,10 may remit their salaries and other income earned in China, af ter payment of taxes and deduction of their living expenses in China and approval by the relevant local au- thorities. Profits of joint ventures may be remitted after taxation, in accordance with foreign exchange regulations; such remittances are subject to the ap- proval of the local branch of the SAEC and should be paid through the foreign exchange account of the joint venture. Remitted profits are subject to an additional tax of 10 percent, but only if the profits have been generated in areas other than the special economic zones and the economic and technologi- cal development areas in the 14 selected coastal cities. If a Chinese resident wishes to spend money on travel abroad, receive his pension abroad, or remit money abroad, he must apply to the local SAEC bureau for approval. Such factors as the individual's normal income and expenditure are examined to determine if approval is to be granted for remit- tances. In cases of serious illness, death, or injury affecting a Chinese resident's parents, spouse, or children outside China, he may apply for foreign exchange up to a specified limit on presentation of documentary verification. If permission is granted to travel abroad, a Chinese resident is normally allowed to take a reasonable amount of foreign ex- change to cover expenses for transport and subsis- 10Including those employed by enterprises with overseas and foreign Chinese capital. tence; any surplus must be repatriated and surren- dered to the BOC. There is no tax on travel. A Chinese resident who retires and emigrates is nor- mally permitted to receive his pension abroad, but he is not normally permitted to remit the proceeds from any assets he may sell in China. Foreign exchange remitted or brought in by non- residents may be converted into either renminbi or foreign exchange certificates denominated in ren- minbi. Foreign exchange certificates can be used by nonresidents in hotels, restaurants, and shops serv- ing nonresidents, for purchasing airline tickets and train or ship fares to Hong Kong and Macao, and for international telecommunications and parcel post charges. Special regulations apply in Guangdong province. Persons entering China must declare their holdings of foreign currency and may take out of China any unused foreign currency on presentation of the import declaration form issued by customs. The import and export of Chinese bank notes are prohibited. Foreign exchange certificates may be imported, but their export is subject to the provision of documentation showing that they have been ac- quired legitimately. Chinese residents must show their authorization to export foreign currency at the border. Income from royalties, dividends, interest, and rentals earned by foreign businesses without estab- lishments in China is subject to a 20 percent with- holding tax; a preferential rate of 10 percent is ap- plied for foreign and overseas Chinese partners in joint ventures set up in the special economic zones and the economic and technological development areas in the old urban areas of the 14 coastal cities. Joint ventures are required to be insured with Chinese insurance companies. Capital Foreign borrowing is classified either as "plan" or "nonplan" borrowing.11 Plan borrowing includes borrowing by the Central Government (through the PBC, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agri- culture, Animal Husbandry arid Forestry, and Mo- FERT and enterprises under the control of MOFERT) from international organizations and bilateral 11 The SAEC is the sole agency for monitoring and controlling China's external borrowing. The SAEC permits the BOC and other financial and nonfinancial institutions responsible for un- dertaking commercial borrowing to borrow up to specified limits without prior approval. All bond issues, however, are subject to prior approval by the SAEC. In August 1987, comprehensive regulations were issued requiring all foreign borrowing to be registered with the SAEC. Borrowers who do not comply will not be permitted to transfer foreign exchange abroad to meet their debt-service obligations and will be subject to other penalties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 105 sources, borrowing by CITIC and other investment and trust companies (ITICS) (mostly in the form of bond issues and bond borrowing abroad) to finance plan projects, borrowing by the BOC from foreign commercial banks to finance plan projects, and bor- rowing by provincial governments (either directly and through the BOC) for large projects included in provincial governments' annual plans. Nonplan borrowing includes borrowing by the BOC for pur- poses other than projects included in the annual plan (this includes interbank loans and foreign ex- change deposits held in BOC headquarters and abroad), foreign exchange deposit taking by other financial institutions, short-term trade credits, bor- rowing by joint-venture companies and 100 percent foreign-owned companies, all borrowing at the provincial level to finance small projects, lease fi- nancing, and borrowing from offshore Chinese en- terprises (mainly in Hong Kong). The total amount of external borrowing for a spec- ified future period and its split between concession- al and nonconcessional sources is approved by the SPC. Within these limits, the SPC coordinates for- eign borrowing for projects included in the annual and five-year plans. Under this procedure, the project-executing agencies (the Ministry of Finance, MOFERT, foreign trade corporations, and provincial governments) propose projects to the SPC. Pro- posals indicate the total amount of foreign exchange needed, how much of it will be earned and how much will be borrowed from abroad, and the kinds of imports for which loans are intended. The SPC reviews these plans and in cooperation with the SAEC, the Ministry of Finance, and MOFERT recom- mends to the State Council the overall number of projects and their associated financing. Loans for vital projects or projects that have a rapid rate of return are given priority approval. If the imports are for new construction, the plans are also reviewed by the State Economic Commission. Within these guidelines, loans from international financial institutions and foreign governments re- quire the sanction of the SPC and the approval of the State Council. Loans from international develop- ment agencies are generally the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance or the China Investment Bank (an organization under the direction of the Minis- try); intergovernmental loans are the responsibility of MOFERT; and loans from international financial institutions are the responsibility of the PBC. Gov- ernment departments, local governments, and en- terprises usually borrow through the BOC (or with its guarantee) or through specialized agencies such as ITICS, rather than borrowing directly abroad themselves. The SPC sets an annual limit on such borrowing. Foreign borrowing in the form of de- ferred payments requires the approval of MOFERT. Resident organizations may not issue securities for foreign exchange unless approved by the PBC. All commercial borrowing abroad (including bond issues) for nonplan purposes requires prior SAEC approval. Joint-venture enterprises and 100 percent foreign-owned companies are required to balance their foreign exchange receipts and pay- ments. While their borrowing is not subject to prior approval by the SAEC, it must be reported.12 All foreign direct investment projects are in prin- ciple subject to the approval of MOFERT. However, a number of provincial and local authorities have been granted the authority to approve foreign direct in- vestment projects up to specified amounts. The pol- icy with respect to foreign capital is designed both to make up the insufficiency of domestic capital and to facilitate the introduction of modern technology and management. Most foreign exchange earned by joint ventures and other enterprises involving non- resident capital must be deposited with the BOC or an authorized bank; outward transfers of capital generally require SAEC approval. Enterprises in- volved in the exploitation of offshore petroleum re- serves may also hold foreign exchange abroad or in the Hong Kong or Macao regions. When a joint venture is wound up, the net claims belonging to the foreign investor may be remitted with SAEC approval through the foreign exchange account of the joint venture. Alternatively, the foreign investor may apply for repayment of his paid-in capital. Profits of joint ventures, with the exception of firms in special economic zones and the 14 coastal cities and those exploiting petroleum, natural gas, and other specified resources,13 are subject to tax at 33 percent (30 percent basic rate plus a 10 percent surcharge on the assessed tax). As mentioned above, remitted profits are subject to an additional tax of 10 percent, which is waived for joint ventures in the special economic zones and the economic and technological development areas of the 14 coastal cities. A joint venture scheduled to operate for ten years or more may be exempted from income tax in the first one or two profitmaking years and be al- lowed reductions of 50 percent for the following three years. Joint ventures in low-profit operations, such as farming and forestry, or located in areas 12To assist individual enterprises balance their foreign receipts arid payments, enterprises with a surplus of foreign exchange may sell it to enterprises with a deficit. 13The special tax rate for these firms is 15 percent. In addition, new joint ventures scheduled to operate for ten years or more may, inter alia, be exempted from taxation in the first and second profitmaking years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 106 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA considered to be economically underdeveloped may, upon the approval of the Ministry of Finance, be allowed a further 15-30 percent reduction in in- come tax for the following ten years. A participant in a joint venture that reinvests its share of profit in China for a period of not less than five years may obtain a refund of 40 percent of the tax paid on the reinvested profit. Certain joint ventures established before the passing of tax regulations in August 1980 are subject to taxes at different rates. Foreign companies, enterprises, and other eco- nomic organizations that have establishments in China engaged in independent business opera- tions, cooperative production, or joint business op- erations with Chinese enterprises are subject to tax on their net income. There are five levels of tax rates, ranging from 20 percent for the first Y 250,000 of profits to 40 percent for profits exceeding Y 1 mil- lion. In addition, a local income tax of 10 percent of the same taxable income is levied. Income from interest on deposits of foreign banks in China's state banks and on loans from foreign banks to China's state banks with a normal interest rate is subject to a 20 percent withholding tax. Foreign state banks originating from countries in which income from interest on deposits and loans of China's state banks is exempted from income tax are correspondingly exempt from this Chinese tax. For interest income or leasing fees (less than the value of equipment) earned under credit agreements by foreign busi- ness without establishments in China, trade agree- ments, and leasing agreements signed by them with Chinese companies and enterprises during the period 1983-85, income tax is to be levied at the reduced rate of 10 percent (half the normal rate) during the validity of the aforesaid agreements; in- terest earnings from export credits are entitled to income tax exemption. For fees collected by foreign businessmen for the use of special technology provided by them in such fields as agriculture, ani- mal husbandry, research, energy, communications, transport, environmental protection, and the de- velopment of important techniques, income tax may, on the approval of the tax authorities, be levied at the reduced rate of 10 percent, or be waived if the technology is advanced and is provided on favorable terms. Foreign investment by Chinese enterprises is subject to approval; profits earned thereby must be sold to the BOC, except for a portion that may be retained locally as working balance. Chinese diplo- matic and commercial organizations abroad, as well as businesses abroad and in the Hong Kong and Macao regions, are required to draw up annual for- eign exchange plans. Gold The PBC buys and sells gold and has central con- trol over dealings in gold and silver. Sales of gold and silver are restricted to pharmaceutical, indus- trial, and other approved uses. Private persons may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold, gold products, silver, and silver products that may be imported is unlimited but must be declared on entry. When exporting gold or silver, the exporter must present an import docu- ment from customs or a PBC export permit. Non- residents may buy gold and silver and gold and silver products at special stores but must present the invoice when exporting them. Changes During 1988 Administration of Control March 13. MOFERT announced major reforms in the trading system. Control over the foreign trade corporations (FTC) was decentralized by making local branches of most of the FTCs independent entities accountable to local authorities and subject to the contract responsibility system. The agency system for exports and imports was extended, and additional enterprises were given authority to di- rectly export their products or to directly import materials needed. In addition, it was announced that all enterprises that are allowed to retain foreign exchange would be granted permission to trade for- eign currencies at the foreign exchange adjustment centers. At the same time, foreign exchange reten- tion quotas for enterprises in several industrial sec- tors (light industry, arts and crafts, clothing, and machinery) and in some regions (Hainan Island and the special economic zones) were liberalized. Imports and Import Payments February 1. Customs duties were lowered from 12 percent to 9 percent on imports of numerically controlled machine tool parts and components. Customs duties were raised on 38 other import items, which included natural rubber, air condi- tioners, refrigerators, washing machines, electronic music instruments, textile machinery, and complete machine tools. The 40 percent surcharge on natural rubber imports was eliminated. May 16. Customs duties were lowered on 23 items, including intermediate products used in the production of fa rm chemicals and unfinished pre- cious stones. July 26. Customs duties were raised on 4 items, including aluminum sheets, cans, and containers. September 15. Surcharges were levied on the pur- chase of certain imported items by Beijing-based ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 107 government organizations and businesses. Im- ported items that are subject to a 40 percent sur- charge include automobiles, motorcycles, television sets, refrigerators, washing machines, air condi- tioners, and cameras. September 20. Customs duties on ply layers used in making plywood were reduced. Duties were in- creased on 14 items, including photographic film, color television sets, and tape recorders. Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. The number of export items subject to licensing was reduced to 159. July 6. Export duties were established for 18 items, including copper and aluminum and a num- ber of products made from these materials. September 20. Export taxes were levied on 16 items, including phosphorus, some petrochemi- cals, iron, lead, and zinc. October 26. Export duties on raw silk and some silk products were raised, with some duties running as high as 100 percent. December 20. It was announced that effective Jan- uary 1, 1989, exports of 6 commodities would be prohibited. Products covered include copper and copper-based alloys, aluminum and aluminum- based alloys, platinum, yellow phosphorous, and nickel and nickel-based alloys and products. In ad- dition, exports of 12 other commodities are to be restricted. They include polypropylene, chromium ore, molybdenum ore, metallic magnesium, metal- lic manganese, resin, polystyrene, methylbenzene, xylene, ferrochrome, ferromanganese, and rubber. Capital April 13. The National People's Congress adopted a new Chinese-foreign cooperative joint ventures law. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. The Colombian authorities follow a policy of adjust- ing the peso in small amounts at relatively short intervals, taking into account (1) the movements of prices in Colombia relative to those in its major trading partners; (2) the level of Colombia's foreign exchange reserves; and (3) Colombia's overall bal- ance of payments performance. Exchange sur- render and foreign payments are generally effected through the medium of exchange certificates, which are traded in the official market at the official rate and in the stock exchange at varying rates of discount. In the case of export proceeds, exporters have the option of either immediate conversion or acquisition of exchange certificates with a maturity of 90 days. On December 30, 1988, the buying and selling rates in the official market for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Col$335.86 and Col$337.20, respectively, per US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates for certain other currencies1 are also of- ficially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic (the central bank) or authorized banks. There are other effective exchange rates, which result from (1) a 6.5 percent tax on coffee export proceeds; (2) tax credit certificates granted at three different percentage rates for most export proceeds; (3) the imposition of a remittance tax at two different rates on certain service payments; and (4) a 95 per- cent advance exchange license deposit for import payments. The peso equivalent of the Govern- ment's exchange receipts from the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury at an accounting rate applied by the Bank of the Republic; the Gov- ernment purchases exchange for all public debt pay- ments and other expenditures included in the na- tional budget at the same exchange rate. The Bank of the Republic stands ready to sell foreign exchange warrants (titulos canjeables por cer- tificados de cambio) to government enterprises in the oil sector and to public sector recipients of external loans against payment in pesos at the certificate Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swed- ish kronor, and Swiss francs. market selling rate on the date of issue. These war- rants, which are expressed in deutsche mark, Jap- anese yen, Netherlands guilders, or U.S. dollars and have a maturity of 24 months, are negotiable, and may also be exchanged for exchange certifi- cates, provided that the holder presents an ex- change license. Within their period of validity, war- rants may also be sold to the Bank of the Republic for pesos at the certificate market buying rate on the date of repurchase. Warrants expressed in U.S. dol- lars bear interest at 1.5 points above the New York prime rate if held by government enterprises in the oil sector, or an interest rate equal to that of the external loan, but never higher than the average 30- day rate on primary certificates of deposit at the close of operations in the New York market for the day before the certificate is issued if held by public sector recipients of external loans. Warrants held longer than 24 months cannot be converted into exchange certificates but may be resold to the Bank of the Republic at the certificate market rate on the last day of the twenty-fourth month. Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior registration at the Colombian Institute of Foreign Trade (INCOMEX). Exchange for payments must be pur- chased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange li- cense issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic; however, payments for specified cur- rent transactions, when made through credit in- stitutions, do not require prior exchange licenses but must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic for ex post authentication. All payments for study purposes require prior authorization by the Colom- bian Institute for International Education (!CETEX). The Monetary Board is authorized periodically to draw up a foreign exchange budget. It can also establish priorities within that budget for the deliv- ery of exchange, after setting aside the amounts necessary to cover the obligations of the Bank of the Republic and to service the external debt of the public agencies and the National Federation of Cof- fee Growers. The Foreign Trade Council (FTC), which includes representatives of the Ministry of Finance, INCOMEX, and other public entities, determines overall import and export policy and assigns foreign 108 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 109 exchange for imports in the following order of pri- ority: (1) raw materials and spare parts; (2) imports for El Cerrejon coal project; (3) public sector imports of agricultural products; (4) fuel imports; (5) capital goods imports for export industries; and (6) other imports. A joint Trade Commission (Comision Mixta de Comercio Exterior), with representatives from the Ministry of Finance, INCOMEX, and the private sec- tor, serves as an advisory committee on foreign trade. INCOMEX, through its Import Board, controls those imports that are subject to prior licensing, administers special import-export arrangements in the form of barter, clearing, and triangular trade operations, and also sets maximum import prices for certain commodities. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives con- cerning direct investment in Colombia to the Ex- change Office and the National Planning Depart- ment. The Exchange Office keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad and controls the movement of for- eign capital as well as the transfer of profits, divi- dends, commissions, and royalties for trademarks, patents, etc. The sale of proceeds from certain cur- rent invisibles is also subject to prior registration with the Exchange Office. The Superintendency of Exchange Control, which is an autonomous agency reporting to the Presidency of the Republic, en- forces the control and supervision over exchange transactions and is responsible for applying penal- ties for any violation of the exchange regulations. Prescription of Currency The Monetary Board establishes the list of curren- cies that it accepts for exchange surrender and provides for import payments. Payments and re- ceipts are normally effected in U.S. dollars, but importers and exporters are also free to use quoted currencies (see footnote 1). Settlements for com- mercial transactions with countries with which Co- lombia has bilateral payments or reciprocal credit agreements2 must be made through special ac- counts in accordance with the provisions of the par- ticular bilateral payments agreement. Settlements between Colombia and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts main- tained within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). There are also reciprocal credit agreements with the People's Republic of China, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Spain, Yugoslavia, 2Colombia maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bul- garia, Hungary, Poland, and Romania. the U.S.S.R., and member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM). Nonresident Accounts Credit institutions are authorized to receive short- term deposits in foreign currency from physical or juridical persons not resident in Colombia; these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any foreign currency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colombian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. Before releasing the accounts of nonresidents, banks must obtain authorization from the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments Imports are subject to one of the following re- gimes: (1) freely importable goods, requiring only registration with INCOMEX; (2) goods subject to prior approval and requiring an import license; (3) goods included in the prohibited import list; and (4) goods requiring special import-export arrangements for their importation. In the free-import regime, there is a global free list applicable to all countries, a national list applicable only to member countries of the LAIA, and special lists applicable only to mem- ber countries of the LAIA and to members of the Andean Pact. Operations under special import-export arrange- ments in the form of barter, clearing, and triangular trade arrangements are required to take place in accordance with the relevant regulations issued by the Monetary Board in the event that they give rise to a request for foreign exchange or to an obligation to surrender foreign exchange. These arrangements involve payments in foreign currency in cases when the Colombian importer and the Colombian export- er are not the same juridical entity and, in addition, the import operation is not followed by the export operation contemplated in the arrangement be- cause of noncompliance on the part of the exporter. In such cases, INCOMEX designates a "responsible party," which is requested to provide the value of the import in pesos plus a peso-denominated fine. Similarly, the exporter participating in barter ar- rangements is requested to surrender the foreign exchange earned in cases where the export opera- tion precedes the import operation and the importer fails to comply with the terms of the arrangement. INCOMEX encourages special import-export opera- tions as a means to promote, through other foreign trade mechanisms, exports which would not be car- ried out otherwise. A distinction is drawn between reimbursable and nonreimbursable imports. Reimbursable imports ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 110 COLOMBIA involve purchase of official foreign exchange, in- cluding imports of machinery and equipment, fi- nanced by international credit institutions. Non- reimbursable imports consist mainly of aid imports under grants and commodities constituting part of a direct investment. All import registrations by public sector agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether lo- cal substitutes are available. Import licenses for cer- tain items are normally not issued; these include arms and habit-forming drugs, certain foodstuffs, certain textiles and clothing, and jewelry. Both im- port licenses and registrations are valid for six months, except for imports of agricultural and live- stock products, for which the validity period is three months. Import licenses can be extended for succes- sive three-month periods, whereas registrations of free imports can be extended for only two succes- sive three-month periods. All imports other than those classified as "minor imports" or shipments with an f.o.b. value of less than US$500 are subject to registration with INCOMEX. Urgently needed spare parts not exceeding US$10,000 are also classi- fied as minor imports and are not subject to registra- tion. The charge for import registration is Col$l,500. An advance exchange license deposit (consignation) has to be lodged at the official rate for exchange certificates at least 20 calendar days prior to an ap- plication for an exchange license. The rate of deposit is 95 percent of the value of the exchange license. Imports of crude oil and petroleum products are subject to prior approval of Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo (ECOPETROL). Import duties are calculated at the "Ministry of Finance exchange rate" (the average selling rate for exchange certificates for the previous month, as de- termined by the Ministry of Finance). In addition to customs duties, there is an ad valorem tax on im- ports equal to 5 percent of the c . i . f. value, the pro- ceeds of which go to the Export Promotion Fund. Exempt from this tax are temporary imports; im- ports by public entities; goods of LAIA origin; im- ports under the Vallejo Plan; diplomatic, consular, and similar imports; gifts; and imports destined for CORFERIAS (International Commerce Fair of Bogota), for the free port of San Andres y Providen- cia, or effected through the Port of Leticia. With the above exemptions, imports are also subject to a tax of 1.5 percent of the c .i .f. value, the proceeds of which accrue to the ordinary budget of the Central Government. All imports (except newsprint) are subject to a stamp tax of 1 percent of the f .o .b. value, as well as to a temporary surcharge of 8 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the exchange certificate rate. To obtain exchange licenses for freight payments, a freight company must, either directly or through agents in Colombia, lodge a deposit amounting to 95 percent of payment value. Payments for more than 80 percent of total import or export freight are allowed only if it can be estab- lished that freight costs payable in local currency amounted to less than 20 percent of total cost. Ser- vices may be imported through special import- export arrangements in the form of barter, clearing, and triangular trade arrangements. Most payments for invisibles, including banking commissions, international air travel, and expenses incurred in the export of noncoffee products, are subject to exchange licenses. Banks may transfer without prior approval payments for certain other current invisibles, including interest on suppliers' credit, medical expenses, support of technical staff abroad, the monthly allowances of students study- ing abroad with government support, and for the service of registered foreign loans taken up by the private sector. Foreign exchange purchases for travel are limited to the equivalent of US$90 a day, up to US$1,500 a year, for those under 12 years of age; US$180 a day, up to US$3,000 a year, for an adult; and up to US$250 a day, within a limit of US$12,500 a year, for "special" travelers (defined as those traveling for reasons that are of particular usefulness in the economic and social development of the country). Remittances abroad for study purposes are sub- ject to the following limits: (1) US$300 for travel; (2) US$400 for books and study material; (3) US$400 to cover thesis fees; (4) up to US$500 monthly for living expenses; (5) up to US$250 monthly for ex- penses incurred by a spouse if course work extends beyond six months; and (6) a onetime US$500 al- lowance for unforeseen expenditures. Registration fees for courses approved by ICETEX, as well as health and accident insurance for students, are not subject to limits. Requests for foreign exchange for study purposes have to be approved by ICETEX. The transfer of profits accruing to foreign inves- tors is normally limited to 25 percent of the regis- tered direct investment a year. Profits beyond such limit may be counted toward increasing the capital base. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period not exceeding three months may, on leav- ing the country, purchase foreign currency of up to US$100 on presentation of their passports. A remit- tance tax of 12 percent is applicable to a number ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 111 of current payments; for profits transferred by branches of foreign companies, the tax is 20 percent. Colombian nationals and resident foreigners are required to pay a tax of US$15 whenever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain commodities are prohibited, and exports of certain foods tuffs are subject to quotas. Exports of certain other items, such as beef, are reserved for the Instituto de Mercado Agropecuario (IDEMA). No export licenses are required, but prior application for registration is necessary for all ex- ports except samples and Colombian products in noncommercial quantities. When registering an ex- port transaction, exporters must provide INCOMEX with either a personal guarantee in pesos (but with- out depositing any funds) or a bank guarantee cor- responding to 5 percent of the registered amount, calculated at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate; for petroleum exports, the requirement is 25 percent of the projected value of production. The periods for surrendering export proceeds are normally as fol- lows: (1) for coffee, within 20 days of the date of registration of the export (180 days for instant cof- fee); and (2) for other goods, generally within 5 months of registration. However, longer time peri- ods for the surrender of proceeds are permitted for exports to Chile, Peru, Ecuador, and Venezuela; goods sold on a commission basis; books, maga- zines, and other printed matter (18 months); capital goods (2 years); and other goods that normally re- quire more extended payment terms. The Bank of the Republic is empowered in certain cases to retain a portion of the exchange proceeds surrendered by the exporter of any product to repay debts for imports under the Vallejo Plan. All ex- change proceeds from exports must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic, with the exception of export proceeds of ECOPETROL and exports of min- erals associated with state enterprises, which are permitted to retain part of their export proceeds abroad for the settlement of their import costs. On surrendering their export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than coffee, raw cattle hides, or petroleum and petroleum products receive tax credit certifi- cates (certificados de reembolso tributario, or CERTs) in an amount corresponding to a specified percentage of the total earnings surrendered, converted at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate. Three rates— 5 percent, 9 percent, and 14 percent —are applied, depending on the product and the country of desti- nation; the rates are calculated on domestic value added for specified assembly operations. These cer- tificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices for the payment of income tax, customs du- ties, and sales taxes. The surrender of foreign cur- rency earned by exporters can, as an option, be effected by exchanging the foreign currency for ex- change certificates (of 90 days' maturity), which are negotiable on the stock exchange. Minimum surrender prices for coffee, bananas, and a few other exports are set from time to time by the Monetary Board. Exports of coffee are subject to the following regulations: (1) a minimum surrender price (reintegro) is fixed af ter deduction for freight and insurance; (2) exporters pay a tax in foreign exchange at the rate of 6.5 percent ad valorem, of which 3.2 percent is paid to the National Coffee Fund, 0.8 percent is paid to the Departmental Com- mittees of Coffee Growers, and the remainder provides revenue for the Treasury; (3) exporters must either surrender without payment (in the form of untreated coffee) the equivalent of 35 per- cent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention cafetera) or pay the National Federa- tion of Coffee Growers the peso equivalent; (4) exports of coffee are subject to an additional tax of 6 percent ad valorem (pasilla y ripio tax), which must be paid to the Federation either in kind or in pesos; and (5) a committee composed of the Minis- ters of Finance and Agriculture and the Managing Director of the Federation establishes a domestic buying price for export-type coffee, expressed in pesos per carga of 125 kilograms. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered; they are converted against exchange cer- tificates, which can be sold on the stock exchange. In respect of exchange receipts from gifts and the rendering of professional services other than medi- cal, hospital, or educational services, prior authori- zation from the Exchange Office is required before conversion. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the certificate market rate. There is a 95 percent advance payment deposit on all out- flows, which must be lodged before application can be made for an exchange license. All foreign investment in Colombia, all new for- eign loans, direct lines of foreign credit obtained by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 112 COLOMBIA nonbank residents,3 and the movement of capital previously imported (except loans previously regis- tered under Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be registered with the Exchange Office. Direct foreign investment regulations in Colom- bia are governed by Decree No. 1265 of July 10,1987 and are in accordance with the provisions of Deci- sion No. 220 of the Cartagena Agreement, which governs foreign investment within the member countries of the Andean Pact. The National Council for Economic and Social Planning (CONPES) can leg- islate special conditions affecting foreign invest- ment so as to overrule the above-mentioned provi- sions. Foreign investment can amount to 100 per- cent of ownership. If the enterprise is entitled to the benefits under the provisions of the Cartagena Agreement, however, foreign investment is re- quired to become 51 percent Colombian-owned by the thirtieth year after its registration, with the ex- ception of investment in enterprises that satisfy one of the following conditions: (1) at least 25 percent of their production is exported; or (2) at least 50 per- cent of their material inputs are of Colombian origin. Member countries of the Andean Pact are treated as Colombian investors for purposes of fulfilling the Colombian ownership requirement, provided that profit and capital remittances remain within the country of origin and shares are not sold outside the area. Capital imports require prior approval by the Na- tional Planning Department, with the exception of capital for the petroleum industry, which requires approval by the Ministry of Mines and Energy, and capital for mineral exploration other than pe- troleum, which requires approval by the National Planning Department and the recommendation of the Ministry of Mines and Energy. Foreign direct investment is prohibited in public services, all branches of communication, television, film dis- tribution and showing, internal passenger transport (except tourism), and residential construction. All foreign banks and their branches must have Colom- bian majority participation. New foreign direct in- vestment in banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions is restricted to investors from member countries of the Andean Pact and to na- tional or mixed companies on the basis of reciprocal treatment. The purchase of 10 percent or more of the shares of a Colombian financial institution requires the prior approval of the Banking Superintendent. 3Loans by financial entities for the import of goods also require registration; their repayment is authorized by the exchange li- cense covering the relevant import transaction. Such loans are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 2.5 percent over the New York prime rate or the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR). Capital registration with the Exchange Office en- titles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital under specified conditions. The transfer of profits is limited to 25 percent of registered direct investment with certain exceptions. Profit remit- tances from direct investment in internal explora- tion may be limited to a percentage of dollar- denominated capital determined by adding 25 points to the average New York prime interest rate prevailing in the year of registration of the foreign investment transaction, as estimated by the Bank of the Republic. Other special regimes are applicable to (1) the earthquake-hit area of Popayan, which allow profit remittances on invested capital in a percentage equivalent to 25 percent above the aver- age New York prime interest rate in the year of registration of the capital inflows; and (2) bordering regions, which allow transfer of profits up to 24 per- cent of the dollar-denominated investment. Foreign loans contracted by private Colombian individuals or firms are generally subject to a mini- mum maturity of three years with one year of grace and an interest rate ceiling of 2.5 percent over the New York prime rate or LIBOR. Such loans are nor- mally permitted only for financing working capital or fixed investment. Special regulations govern the periods for which resident banks may provide im- port financing from foreign currency borrowed abroad. Foreign loans for national or governmental entities in excess of Col$10 million or US$500,000 require prior authorization by the Ministry of Fi- nance and the National Planning Department. For loans to the Government, or guaranteed by the Gov- ernment, the following are also required: prior au- thorization by the National Council for Economic and Social Policy and by the Monetary Board, prior consultation with the Interparliamentary Commit- tee on Public Credit, and ex post approval by the President of the Republic. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trademarks or patents, and similar arrangements must be registered with the Exchange Office to en- able the beneficiary to make transfers abroad; they also require approval by the Royalties Committee before they can be registered. Colombian nationals who have invested abroad must surrender to the Bank of the Republic, against exchange certificates, not only the interest, profits, commissions, and royalties, but also the proceeds of the sale or liquidation of the investment. Export of capital by residents is restricted, and such export by private individuals is not normally permitted. Current deposit accounts in foreign currency may be held by insurance companies, export firms, transportation companies, and other specified en- tities, upon prior authorization of the Bank of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 113 Republic. A ceiling equivalent to 5 percent of their total foreign liabilities is applied on the foreign cur- rency deposits that may be held by domestic finan- cial institutions. Gold Natural and juridical persons may trade in Co- lombia in gold coins for numismatic purposes only. With this exception, only the Bank of the Republic is entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold. Imports of nonmonetary gold are not normally undertaken. The Bank of the Republic purchases locally produced gold at the average price prevailing in the London, Zurich, and New York markets on the day preceding the domestic gold purchase plus 3 percent. The Bank of the Republic levies an ad valorem tax of 2 percent on the total payment re- ceived by the miner. The Bank of the Republic makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use directly at a price equivalent to the average quotation in gold markets abroad during the previous day; this price is converted into pesos at the prevailing selling rate of exchange cer- tificates on the date of sale. The assay and refining houses and the mining companies producing gold are under the supervi- sion of the Superintendency of Exchange Control. In addition, the mining companies and traders must obtain a license from the Superintendency in order to carry on their operations. The Bank of the Republic from time to time issues commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement June 1. The Bank of the Republic was authorized to sell exchange warrants in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Imports and Import Payments March 3. The lists of freely importable goods and of goods subject to prior licensing requirement were modified. March 4. Import tariff preferences were granted to certain goods originating in Argentina. March 30. Minimum official import prices (on f .o .b. basis) were set for the import of certain campers, as a base for the calculation of ad valorem tariffs. April 21. Import tar iffs were lowered, resulting in a decrease in the average rate from 26 percent to 24 percent. The tariff dispersion covering 200 cus- toms headings for capital goods produced domes- tically with low to medium value added was nar- rowed from 37.6 percent to 30.4 percent. May 19. A 2 percent import surcharge was im- posed on certain goods brought in by travelers. May 24. The ceiling on duty-free imports which could be brought in from the free port of San Andres y Providencia after a minimum stay of three days was raised. July 22. The special import-export regime provid- ing for import duty exemptions on specified inputs for eligible exporters (Plan Vallejo) was modified. Main changes concerned the system of guarantees and certain operational procedures. August 23. The coal industry was allowed to im- port a wide range of products required for its opera- tion under a six-month licensing regime. September 23. Import ta r i f fs were lowered on aver- age by 10 percent for industrial capital goods and 5 percent for other goods, resulting in a decline in the average tariff rate from 37.3 percent to 30 percent. October 3. Import tariff preferences were granted to certain goods originating in Uruguay. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Comoros is the Comorian Franc, which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CF 1 = F 0.02. The current buying and selling rates for the French franc are CF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies1 are also officially quoted on the basis of the fixed rate of the Comorian franc for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the respective currencies in terms of the French franc. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Comoros do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose institute of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Re- public, Chad, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered for- eign countries. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Comoros. The Ministry of Economy and Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward invest- ments. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to an autho- rized bank —the sole commercial bank —and to the Postal Administration. All exchange transactions re- lating to foreign countries must be effected through the authorized bank or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs in the Min- istry of Economy and Finance. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Currencies quoted on the Paris official market: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, ECUs, Finnish markkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dol- lars, and zaires. Prescription of Currency The Central Bank of Comoros maintains an Oper- ations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Com- orian francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the cur- rencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settle- ments with South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of South African origin are prohibited, and the import of certain other goods is prohibited from all countries. The import from any source of certain other commodities is subject to individual licensing. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Those to other countries are sub- ject to approval; with the exception of travel, for which there are maximum allocations, such ap- provals are generally given liberally. For tourist travel, residents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may take out the equivalent of CF 125,000 in bank notes and any amount in other means of payment. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain up to CF 250,000 in foreign currency a person a trip. The maximum that may be allocated in bank notes is CF 125,000; the remainder may be in the form of a bank transfer, traveler's checks, a certified check, or any other means of payment. For business travel, a special allocation may be authorized by the Central Bank of Comoros upon the request of the autho- rized bank. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. With a few exceptions, exports to France (as defined 114 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS 115 above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are free of license. Most exports to other coun- tries require licenses. Proceeds from exports to for- eign countries must normally be collected, and the receipts repatriated within 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract and sold immediately to the authorized bank. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, must be surrendered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes and coin. Capital All settlements between the Comoros and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between the Comoros and France (as defined above), Mon- aco, and the Operations Account countries are, in principle, free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control ap- proval, but capital receipts from such countries nor- mally are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, inward direct invest- ment, and all outward investment; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. Gold Imports and exports of monetary gold require prior authorization. Imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to declaration, but trans- fers of personal jewelry within the limit of 500 grams a person are exempt from such declaration. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occured in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of the Congo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. Payments to France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries (see section on Administration of Control, below), as well as the purchase of these countries' bank notes and traveler's checks, are sub- ject to a commission of 0.75 percent, with a mini- mum charge of CFAF 75; exempt from this com- mission are payments of the State, the Postal Administration, and the BEAC, salaries of Con- golese diplomats abroad, expenditures of official missions abroad, scholarships of persons studying or training abroad, and debt-service payments due from companies that have entered into an agree- ment with the Congo. Most payments to other for- eign countries and credits to Foreign Accounts in Francs are subject to a commission of 1 percent or, for foreign exchange purchased by the Diamond Purchase Office, 0.50 percent; these commissions are subject to a minimum of CFAF 100. A commis- sion of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Payments to the following countries, although subject to declaration, are unrestricted: (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, irThe CFA franc circulating in the Congo is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Gabon, and Equatorial Guinea. Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Settlements and invest- ment transactions with all foreign countries, however, are subject to control. Foreign countries are defined as all countries other than the Congo. The General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations in the Ministry of Planning and Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Ex- change control is administered by the Minister of Planning and Finance, who has delegated his ap- proval authority to the General Directorate. All ex- change transactions must be effected through au- thorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Directorate in the Ministry of Commerce. With the exception of 13 products, the system of import li- censes has been replaced by a system of ex post declarations (Decree No. 88/414, May 28, 1988). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since the Congo is an Operations Account coun- try, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The crediting of BEAC bank notes to Foreign Accounts in Francs is permitted when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Brazzaville by the foreign correspondent of an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources require a declaration or a license. An indicative annual import program distinguishes five zones: (1) the countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC); (2) France; (3) other countries of the French Franc Area; (4) European Communities (EC) countries other than France; and (5) all remaining countries. Thirteen product items under this pro- gram require licenses and others are subject to ex 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO 217 post declaration. The quotas for non-EC countries may be used to import goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area. All import transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and they require the visa of the Foreign Trade Director- ate and the General Directorate of Credit and Finan- cial Relations. The approved import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, pro- vided that the shipping documents are submitted to an authorized bank. All imports must be insured with the state insur- ance company, Societe d'Assurances et de Reassurances du Congo (SARC). To implement this measure, the Congolese Customs Service releases imports only after an insurance certificate issued by the SARC has been produced. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely, provided they have been declared and are made through an authorized inter- mediary; those to other foreign countries are sub- ject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to non- residents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are permitted with the authorization of the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Opera- tions Account countries, or Zaire may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under 10 years) or CFAF 10,000 if the duration of the trip is less than 24 hours, for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining af ter return to the Congo must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, sub- ject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip; additional amounts may be authorized in appropriate cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is pro- hibited. There are special facilities for travelers to Kinshasa who request no foreign means of payment other than Zairian bank notes. Residents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, or an Opera- tions Account country may take out CFAF 25,000 (CFAF 12,500 for children under 10 years) in BEAC bank notes. Residents and nonresidents traveling to foreign countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zaire may freely take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Congo is permitted upon presenta- tion of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, all exports require prior authoriza- tion, but most exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely; among the excep- tions are commodities exported by the National Marketing Office for Agricultural Products (Office National de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles) and by the Congolese Marketing Office for Timber (Office Congolais du Bois). Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally within 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their destina- tion. Export proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date. All export transactions relat- ing to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of foreign coun- tries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be col- lected when due and surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin). Capital Capital movements between the Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free, though ex post declarations are required. Such movements to coun- tries that are not members of the BEAC are subject to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 118 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO a commission of 0.25 percent. Most international capital transactions are subject to prior authoriza- tion. Capital transfers abroad require exchange con- trol approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad are generally permitted freely. All for- eign securities, foreign currency, and titles embody- ing claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in the Congo. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may apply) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issu- ing, advertising, and offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior ap- proval of the Minister of Planning and Finance; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in the Congo3 require prior ap- proval by the Minister of Planning and Finance, unless they involve the creation of a mixed-economy enterprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in the Congo must be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in the Congo, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days. Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Congo requires prior autho- rization by the Minister of Planning and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) borrowing backed by a guar- antee from the Congolese Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, adver- tising, or offering for sale in the Congo has already been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Plan- ning and Finance. However, loans contracted by including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Congo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Congo. Including those involving the transfer, between nonresi- dents, of funds in the form of participation in the capital of a Congolese company. registered banks and small loans, where the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 10 mil- lion for any one borrower, are exempt from this requirement. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents is subject to exchange control, and all lending in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited, unless special authori- zation is obtained from the Minister of Planning and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans in foreign currencies granted by registered banks; (2) other loans in for- eign currencies when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 million for any one lender; and (3) foreign currency loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 percent a year and whose maturity is two years or less. The making of loans that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the General Directorate of Credit and Financial Relations within 20 days. Under the Investment Code of April 26, 1973, a number of privileges may be granted to approved foreign investments. The Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. Gold By virtue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29,1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold gold in the form of coin, art objects, or jewelry; however, to hold gold in any other form or to import or export gold in any form, from or to any other country, the prior authorization of the Minister of Planning and Finance is required. Exempt from the latter requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BEAC, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. Changes During 1988 Administration of Control May 28. The import licensing system was re- placed by a system of ex post declarations (by De- cree No. 88/414), except for 13 product items (spec- ified in Arrete No. 5469 of August 15, 1988). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa Rican Colon. Costa Rica follows a flexible exchange rate system under which the exchange rate is adjusted from time to time, taking into account relative rates of inflation between Costa Rica and its trading part- ners and balance of payments developments. All transactions, with the exception of allowances for studies abroad (see below), take place at the unified exchange rate. On December 30, 1988, the buying and selling banking rates were C 79.0 and C 80.0 per US$1, respectively. The official exchange rate of C 20.30 = US$1 is used exclusively for granting foreign exchange to students in foreign countries who registered with the Central Bank prior to 1981. The spread between the buying and selling rates in the banking exchange market is legally set at C1.00. Purchases and sales of other Central American cur- rencies are effected on the basis of quotations in colones, taking into account the value of those cur- rencies in terms of U.S. dollars in the parallel ex- change markets of the respective countries. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Costa Rica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank. The only institutions authorized to deal with foreign exchange transactions are the Central Bank of Costa Rica, the state commercial banks, and cer- tain private banks authorized by the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Payments to and from Colombia in respect of commercial op- erations, services, and capital may be made in U.S. dollars through a reciprocal credit arrangement be- tween the member central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Bank of the Re- public of Colombia. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade, invisibles, and capital may also be made in U.S. dollars under an agreement between the mem- ber central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Bank of Mexico. Imports and Import Payments There is no import licensing, and all import pay- ments may be made freely. All imports must be registered in the Central Bank before removal from customs or before the submission of requests for foreign exchange, with the following exceptions: (1) merchandise whose c . i .f. value is less than US$500; (2) temporary imports; (3) domestically produced goods reimported into Costa Rica; (4) imports by diplomatic and foreign missions and international organizations; and (5) household items. Imports made on a barter basis require a barter license (licencia de trueque), issued by the Min- istry of Economy and Commerce. Imports from South Africa are prohibited. In addition to any applicable customs duty, the following taxes are levied on imports: (1) a tax of 1 percent on import value; (2) a sales tax of 10 per- cent ad valorem, from which certain essential items are exempt; and (3) a selective consumption tax at rates varying from 10 percent to 75 percent, de- pending on how essential the item is considered. In addition, other levies are imposed as follows: (1) for inputs —if nominal protection (ad valorem tax plus 1 percent pursuant to Law No. 6946) is less than 8 percent, a surcharge is applied until the 8 percent level is reached; (2) for capital goods—if nominal protection is less than 10 percent, a surcharge is applied until the 10 percent level is reached. The above-mentioned nominal protection includes a general surcharge of 2 percent. Surcharges on im- ports from Central America are levied at a max- imum rate of 2 percent. Vehicles used in paid (public service) transportation, trucks, ambulances and hearses, and chassis with single or dual cab are exempt from the surcharge. Minibuses with a dis- placement of up to 1,250 cubic centimeters are sub- ject to a surcharge of 100 percent. Other vehicles with an import value of up to US$6,000 are sub- ject to a surcharge of 17 percent, and those with a larger import value are subject to a surcharge of 152 percent. Minibuses for collective transportation and vehi- cles with displacement of up to 1,300 cubic centime- ters or with a customs value of up to US$4,000 are 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 120 COSTA RICA exempt from the selective consumption tax. Other vehicles are subject to an ad valorem selective con- sumption tax of up to 75 percent, depending on import value, displacement, and extra accessories. Vehicles with a weight of up to 2 tons are subject to a 75 percent selective consumption tax, and those with a weight exceeding 2 tons are exempt. Pickup trucks with a standard weight of up to 1 ton are also subject to a selective consumption tax of 25 percent, and those with extra accessories are subject to a selective consumption tax of 40 percent. Payments for Invisibles Withholding taxes of 15 percent and 10 percent, respectively, are levied on remittances abroad of dividends and interest; interest on certain borrow- ing abroad (e.g., from government banks) is ex- empt. Costa Rican nationals and resident foreigners traveling abroad by air, sea, or land must pay a travel exit tax in colones equivalent to US$10; Costa Rican nationals who reside abroad must pay, in addition, a consular fee of US$20 upon renewal of their passports abroad. For residents covered by Law No. 4812 (pensionados rentistas) and residents not so covered, the payment differs from the national one. Costa Rican diplomats and certain Peace Corps offi- cials pay an exit fee of only C 6, provided their passport states that they are exempt from the above charges. Civil servants and students are not exempt from these payments, unless so determined by the Ministry of Finance or the Migration Council. Costa Rican minors are subject to all of the above pay- ments, except for dependents of diplomatic par- ents, who pay only the C 6 exit fee. Commercial banks dealing in the unified market may sell foreign exchange —without prior authori- zation of the Central Bank —in the following amounts: (1) for foreign travel, a limit of US$100 a day up to a maximum of US$800 a traveler (upon presentation of passport and travel tickets, commer- cial banks are authorized to sell the equivalent of this amount in the currency of a Central American country to travelers to Central American countries other than Panama); (2) for family remittances, up to US$500 a month a person to a maximum of US$1,000 a family; and (3) for registered students, a maximum of US$500 a month for living expenses, in addition to tuition, textbooks, and insurance, upon presentation of documents. Subject to approval by the Central Bank, these limits may be exceeded where justified by evidence of bona fide current expenditures for the specified purpose. Prior autho- rization by the Central Bank is also required for any foreign exchange purchases for the servicing of pri- vate foreign debt, foreign payment of dividends, royalties, patent rights, and professional services. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to ensure that exchange proceeds are surrendered to the banking system; the latter sell to the Central Bank all of their purchases. Exporters of nontraditional commodities to markets outside Central America are entitled to receive tax credit certificates (CATs, which are freely negotiable) for 15 percent of the f .o .b. value in the case of exports to the United States and Puerto Rico, and for 15 or 20 percent for destinations outside Central America. In addition, exporters of nontraditional commodities eligible for CATs may also receive certificates for increases in exports (CIEXs) for 4-10 percent of the increase in the f .o .b. value of exports over the preceding calen- dar year; the certificates are redeemable against cash at the Central Bank. Licenses from the Central Bank are necessary for the exportation of merchandise. Exports to Nic- aragua must be on the basis of advance payment in U.S. dollars, barter arrangement, or letters of credit confirmed by a major international bank. In addi- tion to the export license from the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: strate- gic materials, such as armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals (from the Ministry of Economy and Commerce); sugar (from the Agricultural Industrial Board for Sugarcane); beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred cattle (from the National Council of Pro- duction); airplanes (from the Civil Aviation Board and the Ministry of Economy and Commerce); In- dian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay (from the National Museum); tobacco (from the Tobacco Defense Board); lumber, root of ipecacuanha, cer- tain livestock, and animals and plants of forest origin (from the Ministry of Agriculture and Live- stock); and coffee (from the Coffee Institute); in addition, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. Exports to South Africa are prohibited. The exchange proceeds from coffee, bananas, sugar, beef, bovine cattle, and other perishable items must be surrendered within 30 days of ship- ment; within 90 days of shipment for exports of semiperishable goods; and within 180 days of ship- ment for other industrial products, except for capi- tal goods, which, by decision of the Central Bank of Costa Rica, may be granted periods of up to 360 days. There are no taxes on nontraditional exports to countries outside the Central American area and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA 121 Panama; taxes are levied on traditional exports, in some cases, graduated in line with the international prices. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are free from controls or restrictions, but receipts from invisibles may be ex- changed into colones only at the Central Bank or other authorized institutions. Capital All capital transfers between residents and non- residents may be made, subject to prior authoriza- tion by the Central Bank. Capital received by the private sector may be registered at the Central Bank of Costa Rica, provided that it meets various re- quirements, including the requirements that (1) the project financed with the funds has (or will even- tually have), directly or indirectly, a positive effect on Costa Rica's balance of payments; (2) the amount of the capital is not less than US$5,000; and (3) the individual concerned sells the foreign exchange to the Central Bank. The registration guarantees the individual that the Central Bank will sell to him the exchange required to service the debt at the ex- change rate in force at the time the servicing is effected. The National Budget Authority1 is in charge of authorizing the negotiation of new exter- 1 Composed of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Plan- ning, and the President of the Central Bank. nal credits contemplated by the Central Govern- ment, decentralized agencies, and state enter- prises. Foreign and domestic capital transferred from abroad may be deposited as time deposits in U.S. dollars with agent banks in the form of spec- ified foreign currencies or be invested in certificates of deposit denominated in colones; such funds, when they mature, are repaid in the currency in which the deposits were made. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coin or bars as part of the monetary reserves in accordance with regulations established by its Board. Private physical and juridical persons may negotiate freely, at home or abroad, domestically produced gold (except national archaeological trea- sures, pursuant to Law No. 6703 of December 18, 1981), provided there is no infraction of interna- tional agreements. As in the case of other exports, licenses from the Central Bank are required for ex- ports of gold. Gold may also be held in any form in Costa Rica. The Central Bank may sell unrefined gold to artistic or professional users. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments September 28. The maximum tariff rate was re- duced to 80 percent, as part of a trade reform aimed at reducing the maximum tariff rate to 40 percent over three to five years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cote dTvoire is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill on transfers f rom countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), and of 2.50 per mill on transfers to coun- tries outside the WAMU.2 Banks and the postal system also levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, the ex- change control measures of Cote dTvoire do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other coun- tries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Spot foreign exchange cover is limited to imports effected by means of documentary credits; the transaction must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary, and goods must be shipped within eight days of the exchange operation. Forward ex- change cover for eligible imports must not extend beyond one month for certain specified goods and three months for goods designated as essential commodities; no renewal of cover is possible. For- ward cover against exchange rate risk is permitted, with prior authorization from the Directorate of Ex- ternal Finance and Credit, only in respect of pay- ments for imports of goods and only for the cur- rency stipulated in the commercial contract. There JThe CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des E ta ts de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the WAMU are sub- ject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. are no official schemes for currency swaps or guar- anteed exchange rates for debt servicing. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of External Finance and Credit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public. All ex- change transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Since Cote dTvoire is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nige- ria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through cor- respondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through For- eign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank notes may be credited to Foreign Ac- counts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Abidjan by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other in- stitute of issue that maintains an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury is prohibited. For- eign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes that are mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 123 Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. All imports are classified into four categories, as fol- lows: (1) prohibited imports (e.g., wheat flour, and used garments); (2) import items (e.g., paints, matches, and detergents) for which import licenses are obligatory for each import transaction exceeding CFAF 25,000, f .o .b .; (3) import items requiring a declaration of intent to import; and (4) import items requiring both prior authorization and a declaration of intent to import; in the last two cases, (3) and (4), the requirements apply only to individual transac- tions exceeding CFAF 100,000, f .o .b. As noted below, certain other import items are subject to annual volume or value quotas. Thus, imports of rice depend on domestic production, since they are intended as a supplementary means of satisfying domestic demand; such imports take place on the basis of an international invitation to bid or a government-to-government contract. All other imports may be made freely from any coun- try; however, as mentioned above, imports made freely, whose f .o .b. value is CFAF 100,000 or more, are subject to submission of an import declaration. When the f .o .b. value exceeds CFAF 1.5 million, they are subject to mandatory preshipment inspec- tion by international agencies to control their price, quantity, and quality. Tariffs have been raised with a view to harmonizing effective protection of local production; in the case of some goods, quotas have been replaced by temporary surcharges scheduled to decline progressively during a five-year period. Imports from member countries of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) are exempt from the surcharge. All import operations relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000; transactions of lower value also must be domiciled with an autho- rized bank if a financial transaction is to be under- taken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment, if a documentary credit is opened, or only on the due date of payment, if the commodities have already been imported. Effective June 15, 1981, foreign exchange for import pay- ments must be purchased either on the settlement date specified in the commercial contract or at the time when the required down payment is made. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Any resident may make payments abroad freely at any time through an authorized bank, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a month without submitting any documentation. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allo- cation for tourism of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a year (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under 10 years). For business travel, a special foreign exchange allocation is authorized up to a maximum of CFAF 20,000 a day and CFAF 400,000 a trip. Any foreign exchange remaining in excess of CFAF 5,000 af ter return to Cote d'lvoire must be surrendered. The transfer of the full basic salary of a foreigner working in Cote d'lvoire is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out BCEAO bank notes up to CFAF 25,000. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes; however, if they travel to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, the amount taken out must be declared to customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers to foreign countries may freely take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any traveler's checks, etc., issued abroad. Subject to documenta- tion, they may also take out any amount of traveler's checks, etc., in foreign currency established in their name a f ter conversion of foreign currency into CFA francs, or drawn against a Foreign Account in Francs, or in a foreign currency in Cote d'lvoire. Nonresidents who have made a currency declara- tion upon entry or are able to show the proper banking notices may take out larger amounts. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declaration only. Exports of certain processed and unprocessed agricultural commodities, however, require the is- suance of an export license by the Directorate of External Trade. An export premium is applied on the basis of the domestic value added in locally ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 124 COTE D'lVOIRE manufactured products and agricultural products, excluding coffee, cocoa, cotton, and pineapples. Ex- port taxes are waived for products receiving the premium, and products covered by taxation agree- ments under the WAEC are not eligible for the pre- mium. The due date for payment in respect of ex- ports to foreign countries, including those in the French Franc Area, must not be later than 180 days af ter the arrival of the goods at their destination. Regardless of the currency of settlement and the buying country, export receipts must be collected and repatriated through authorized intermediary banks within one month of the due date. Regardless of destination, all export transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident trav- elers may import any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign bank notes or other foreign means of payment must surrender any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an authorized bank within eight days and must make a declaration to customs upon entry. Capital Capital movements between Cote d'lvoire and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require ex- change control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over foreign inward direct investment, over all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cote dTvoire. Such operations require prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, as do issues by Cote dTvoire companies. Exempt f rom authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion with (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Government of Cote dTvoire, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cote dTvoire has already been autho- rized. With the exception of controls relating to for- eign securities, these measures do not apply to rela- tions with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Opera- tions Account countries. Special controls are main- tained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Cote dTvoire require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance.3 Foreign direct invest- ments in Cote dTvoire,4 are subject to prior authori- zation by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Effective June 15, 1981, at least 75 percent of invest- ments abroad by residents of Cote dTvoire must be financed by borrowing abroad. The liquidation of investments, whether direct investments or not, in Cote dTvoire or abroad must similarly be reported in advance to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Cote dTvoire investments abroad or foreign investments in Cote dTvoire, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct in- vestments are defined as investments implying con- trol of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance. The following are, however, ex- empt f rom this authorization: (1) loans taken up by industrial f irms to finance transactions abroad, to finance imports into or exports f rom Cote d'lvoire, or by approved international trading houses to finance international merchanting transactions; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when 3Inc lud ing those made through foreign companies that are directly or ind i rec t ly controlled by persons resident in Cote d'lvoire and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies resident in Cote d'lvoire. 4lnc lud ing those made in Cote d'lvoire by companies that are d irec t ly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cote d'lvoire of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 125 the total amount outstanding of these loans, includ- ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans constituting a direct investment is subject to the formalities pre- scribed for the liquidation of direct investments. The repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authorization. Under the investment code introduced in 1984, special incentives are provided for foreign and do- mestic investments in certain priority sectors and priority geographical areas. The incentives include exemption from customs duties and ta r i f fs on all imported capital equipment and spare parts for in- vestment projects, provided that no equivalent item is produced in Cote dTvoire. In addition, all such investments are exempted for a specified period, depending on the investment sector or area, f rom corporate profit taxes, patent contributions, and capital assets taxes. In general, the exemption covers 100 percent of applicable tax up to the third- to-last year of the exemption period, and is reduced progressively to 75 percent of the tax in the second- to-last year of the exemption period, 50 percent in the penultimate year, and 25 percent in the last year of the exemption period. Imports of intermediate goods or raw materials for which no equivalents are produced locally are not exempt from import duties and taxes. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Cote dTvoire. Imports and ex- ports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance, which is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are: (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus Pound. The exchange rate of the Cyprus pound is adjusted daily, with the aim of maintaining its effective rela- tionship with the currencies of its main trading part- ners. On December 31,1988, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were £C 0.4660 and £C 0.4666, respec- tively, per US$1. The Central Bank of Cyprus also quotes daily buying and selling rates for the deut- sche mark, the Greek drachma, and the pound ster- ling. It also quotes indicative rates for other foreign currencies1 on the basis of market rates in interna- tional money market centers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Central Bank offers authorized dealers (banks) facilities for forward purchases of U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for exports and tourism for periods of up to 12 months. Rates for longer periods up to 2 years for exports are also available on an ad hoc basis, when justified. Cover for imports is normally provided up to 6 months. When justified (e.g., pay- ments for imports of raw materials for exports or capital goods), rates may be quoted up to 15 months on request. Forward contracts must be based on genuine commercial commitments. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Cen- tral Bank in cooperation with authorized dealers. Authority to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for a number of purposes has been delegated to authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Cyprus pounds from an External Account, or in any foreign currency. 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs (com- mercial), Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swed- ish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Cyprus pound. Nonresident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus may open and maintain with authorized dealers nonresident accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated External Accounts, or Foreign Currency Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with payments from nonresidents of Cyprus (such as transfers from other External Accounts or Foreign Currency Accounts), proceeds from sales of any foreign cur- rency by nonresidents (including declared bank notes), and the entire proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the sale of an investment made by a nonresident in Cyprus with the approval of the Central Bank and with authorized payments in Cyprus pounds. External Accounts and Foreign Currency Accounts may be debited for payments to residents and nonresidents, for remittances abroad, for transfers to other External Accounts or Foreign Currency Accounts, and for payments in cash (Cyprus pounds) in Cyprus. Companies registered or incorporated in Cyprus that are accorded non- resident status by the Central Bank as well as their nonresident employees may maintain External Ac- counts and Foreign Currency Accounts in Cyprus or abroad, as well as local disbursement accounts for meeting their payments in Cyprus. Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of nonresidents for funds that may not immediately and in their entirety be transferred outside Cyprus under the existing exchange control regulations. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or be invested in government securities or government- guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds so invested is freely transferable to the non- resident beneficiary or it may be credited to an Ex- ternal Account or Foreign Currency Account. In addition to income, the principal that may be re- leased annually from blocked funds for transfer out- side Cyprus is up to £C 5,000. Funds can also be released from Blocked Accounts to meet reasonable expenses in Cyprus of the account holder and his family, including educational expenses, donations to charitable institutions in Cyprus, payments for the acquisition of immovable property in Cyprus, and any other amounts authorized by the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports of fresh fruits, fresh vegetables, and fresh meat are prohibited. Most other imports are 126 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS 127 free of licensing requirements. Only imports of cer- tain commodities require an import license. Such commodities include goods produced or manufac- tured locally, as well as all machinery, plant and equipment, and spare parts and accessories. The Minister of Commerce and Industry may take measures whenever required to regulate the impor- tation of goods for the encouragement of local pro- duction and manufacture. Exchange is allocated to pay for imports freely and without restriction through authorized dealers, provided that docu- mentary evidence of shipment or actual importation of goods is available. Advance payments before shipment require the prior approval of the Central Bank, except for im- ports whose value does not exceed £C 500. Pay- ments for imports requiring a license are expected to be made within the time limits specified on the license. An import surcharge of 6 percent (3.9 per- cent for imports from European Communities (EC) countries) ad valorem is levied on all imports except food, feedstuff, pharmaceuticals, and goods im- ported by the Government. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles abroad require the ap- proval of the Central Bank, but approval authority for certain types of payments has been delegated to authorized dealers. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments are transferable abroad without limitation, after payment of any due charges and taxes. Insurance premiums due to for- eign insurance companies are remittable after de- duction of all contingencies. Allowances are granted for study abroad at colleges, universities, or other institutions of higher education, and certain lower- level institutions of learning. Exchange allowances are based on the cost of living and cover the full amount of tuition fees plus living expenses for the student. For studies in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Middle East, Yugoslavia, and Council of Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) countries, the max- imum yearly allowance for living expenses is £C 1,800; for Canada and the United States, £C 4,400; for Austria, the Benelux countries, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom, £C 3,000; and for all other countries, £C 2,600. There is no limit for the remit- tance of foreign exchange for payment of tuition fees. The exchange allowance for tourist travel is £C 450 a person a trip. The allowance for business travel is not fixed, but depends on the length of stay abroad, the country or countries to be visited, and the purpose. Authorized dealers are empowered to provide up to £C 100 a day with a maximum of £C 1,000. They are further empowered to provide medical expense allowances up to £C 3,000. On leaving Cyprus, travelers may take out with them up to £C 50 in currency notes. There is no limit on the amount of foreign currency notes that de- parting residents may take out of the country as part of any of their foreign exchange allowances. Non- resident travelers may take out any amount of for- eign currency notes they declared on arrival. For- eign currency notes equivalent up to US$1,000 need not be declared, except when they are to be depos- ited with an authorized dealer. In addition, autho- rized dealers may convert up to £C 100 into foreign currency for departing nonresidents. Furthermore, authorized dealers are permitted to issue to nonresi- dents as well as to resident employees of offshore companies any amount of foreign currency notes against external funds. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes and carrots are subject to control by the respective Marketing Boards, and those of wheat, barley, and maize to control by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Exports of cement are subject to a license for the purpose of ensuring adequate domestic supply. All exports are subject to licensing when the f.o.b. value exceeds £C 100, to ensure the repatriation of the sales proceeds. Export proceeds must be surrendered without delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an autho- rized dealer. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to £C 50 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Transfers abroad of a capital nature are not nor- mally permitted. Applications for direct investment abroad by residents are approved only in cases where the proposed investments will promote ex- ports of goods and services and provided the amount required is small. Investments in Cyprus by nonresidents require prior approval of the Central Bank, which, in con- sidering applications, gives due regard to the pur- pose of the investment, the extent of possible for- eign exchange savings or earnings, introduction of know-how, and, in general, the benefits accruing to the national economy. Foreign direct investment is normally permitted in selected fields of production, such as export-oriented industries and new prod- ucts. Annual profits and proceeds from the liquida- tion of approved foreign investments, including ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 128 CYPRUS capital gains, may be repatriated in full at any time, after payment of any charges and taxes. With the permission of the Council of Ministers, alien nonresidents may acquire in Cyprus immov- able property for use as a residence or holiday home; they are required to pay the value of such property in foreign exchange. The sales proceeds of such property are transferable abroad up to the amount originally paid for the purchase of the prop- erty; the balance, if any, is transferable at the yearly rate of £C 5,000, plus interest. The same treatment is accorded to nonresident Cypriots purchasing a holi- day home in Cyprus. Residents of Cyprus (Cypriots or foreign na- tionals) who take up residence outside Cyprus may transfer abroad immediately up to £C 5,000; any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account and released at the rate of £C 5,000 a year. The transfer abroad of funds resulting from estates and intestacies and from the sale of real estate is limited to £C 5,000, with any excess amount to be credited to a Blocked Account and also released at the rate of £C 5,000 a year. Interest earned on blocked accounts is freely transferable abroad. Transactions in foreign securities owned by resi- dents require prior permission from the Central Bank. In principle, all securities held abroad by residents are subject to registration. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The export of gold requires the permission of the exchange control authorities. Changes During 1988 January 1. The second stage of the Association Agreement between Cyprus and the EEC entered into force. The Agreement envisages the phasing out of tariffs and other restrictions on trade between Cyprus and the EEC for a large number of agri- cultural products and for most industrial products. This trade liberalization will, in the main, be com- pleted during the first phase of the second stage of the Customs Union, which will last ten years. The second phase will enter into force by a decision of the Association Council and will last five years (or four years by a decision of the Association Council). It will entail the phasing out of the remaining tariff and the adoption by Cyprus of a number of pro- cedures and mechanisms so as to streamline them with those of the EEC. Payments for Invisibles January!. Authorized dealers were empowered to provide medical expense allowances up to £C 3,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Denmark is the Danish Krone. Denmark participates with Belgium, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Lux- embourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Mon- etary System (EMS). In accordance with this agree- ment, Denmark maintains the spot exchange rates between the Danish krone and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs (European Currency Units). The agreement implies that the Danmarks Na- tionalbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other countries participat- ing in the EMS in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 30, 1988, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire Danish Kroner Upper limit Lower limit 18.9143 390.16 116.32 346.24 1,045.11 0.5620 18.0831 373.00 111.20 331.02 999.13 0.4985 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. Danmarks Nationalbank, however, does in- tervene in other situations for the purpose of smoothing out fluctuations in exchange rates. This smoothing out takes place only with respect to movements of the EMS-currencies, i.e., predomi- nantly the deutsche mark. Interventions may tech- nically be executed in any currency included in the official fixing of exchange rates, and the U.S. dollar is often used as the intervention currency. Dan- marks Nationalbank has an obligation to intervene on the Danish foreign exchange market only at the intervention rates agreed within the EMS. The mid- dle rates (average of buying and selling rates) for 20 foreign currencies (including the ECU);1 are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, Greek drachmas, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. officially fixed daily and reflect the going rates at the time of the fixing. On December 30,1988, the official rates for the deutsche mark and the U.S. dollar were DKr 386.38 and DKr 687.40, respectively, per 100 units. All remaining foreign exchange regulations were lifted with effect from October 1, 1988. Residents may hold positions in foreign currencies without any limitations with respect to the amounts, curren- cies, or instruments involved. Foreign exchange dealers (banks) must, however, keep their net for- eign exchange position (spot plus forward) against the Danish krone within a range equal to ± 10 per- cent of their capital. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealing. The Executive Order on Foreign Exchange Regulations, issued by the Ministry of Industry with effect from October 1, 1988, contains rules concern- ing payments between residents and nonresidents, which —for statistical purposes —must be reported to Danmarks Nationalbank when payments exceed DKr 60,000. Residents (with certain exceptions) must deposit foreign securities and Danish bonds issued abroad either with a Danish or a foreign bank or with the issuer. Residents who are holding accounts with foreign banking institutions, have deposited se- curities abroad, or have entered into contracts with foreign life insurance companies are required to provide the Danish tax authorities with relevant information concerning these transactions. Denmark formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands. The Faeroe Is- lands are still subject to the regulations in force before October 1, 1988. Administration of Control No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Exchange control rules on reporting re- quirements for statistical purposes, on depositing of foreign securities, and on holding of accounts abroad for tax purposes are administered by the Danmarks Nationalbank and foreign exchange 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 130 DENMARK dealers. Foreign exchange dealers are commercial banks, savings banks, and stockbrokerage com- panies or other financial institutes, as defined in the Executive Order, provided that they settle payments between residents and nonresidents on a commer- cial basis through accounts held in or on behalf of foreign banking institutions (correspondent banks). Danmarks Nationalbank has drawn up a list of for- eign exchange dealers. Licenses for imports and exports, where re- quired, are issued by the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency re- quirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most products, except for textiles, are free of licensing from all sources. For textiles, a common European Communities (EC) system of export-import licenses has now been established for almost all countries exporting low-priced textiles. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other nonstate- trading, non-EC country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Re- public, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for imports. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for certain items subject to strategic con- trols, licenses for exports are required only for waste and scrap of certain metals. Nearly all exports of goods and services to the Republic of South Africa and Namibia are prohibited. No exchange control requirements are imposed on receipts from exports. ganization for Economic Cooperation and Develop- ment (OECD) Capital Code; no distinction is made in these rules between residents of member coun- tries of the EC and those of the rest of the world. No special permission is required for residents to make transfers abroad in connection with direct in- vestments or with private acquisitions of real estate abroad. Private acquisition of real estate for non- commercial purposes and expenses related to build- ing and construction work on such property can be made without limitations. Exchange dealers do not need special permission to grant loans to nonresi- dents for the financing of payments to residents for purchases of Danish goods and services. Inward direct investment in the form of equity capital may be made without prior license. The sale to nonresidents of Danish bonds listed on a stock exchange does not require a special li- cense. Nonresidents may freely purchase or sub- scribe to all types of Danish shares, including shares of joint stock and private companies; they may also acquire private mortgage deeds. Residents may take up loans from nonresidents to finance imports of goods and services; they may also take up such loans to finance the granting of credits for exports of commodities and services. Business enterprises may borrow abroad without permission. Transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of all types of investments and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents are permitted freely, irrespective of the manner in which the original investment was acquired. Inter- est and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received from persons and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid without restriction. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may be trans- ferred to any country without limitation. Gift remit- tances to other persons may also be made without limitation. Imports and exports of securities are permitted. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may be sold freely to residents. For- eign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents. Foreign exchange dealers must maintain net posi- tions in foreign currencies in a range equivalent to 10 percent of their equity capital. Capital Gold There are no restrictions on inward or outward capital transfers. The general rules on exchange control issued by the Ministry of Industry are based on EC directives on capital movements and the Or- Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in bars or coin in Denmark; they may also import gold in bars or coin. Imports of gold in bars or coin, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK 131 authorities, are subject to a value-added tax at the rate of 22 percent; domestic transactions in gold are also taxed at the rate of 22 percent. There is no customs duty on imports of gold in bars or coin. veillance measures introduced or eliminated by the European Economic Community during 1988, page 561.) Changes During 1988 Administration of Control October 1. The regulations governing the activities of Danish foreign exchange dealers were changed. The use of the term "authorized" was discontinued, while the category of foreign exchange dealers re- mained essentially unchanged. They consist mainly of commercial banks, certain savings banks, and certain stockbrokerage companies. A list of foreign exchange dealers was drawn up by Danmarks Na- tionalbank. Although foreign exchange dealers re- mained free to conduct all transactions as before, they were subject to the regulation that they must maintain a net position in foreign currency in a range equivalent to ±10 percent of their equity capital. Capital October I. A new Executive Order on Foreign Ex- change Regulations was issued, eliminating all re- strictions on inward and outward capital transfers. For statistical purposes, the reporting of transac- tions between residents and nonresidents to the Danmarks Nationalbank continued to be required. Residents were required to deposit foreign se- curities and Danish bonds issued abroad either with a Danish or a foreign bank or with the issuer. Resi- dents who hold accounts with foreign banking in- stitutions or have deposited securities abroad or have entered into contracts with foreign life insur- ance companies were required to provide relevant information concerning these transactions to the Danish tax authorities. Imports and Import Payments Gold (See Appendix for a summary of antidumping duties, countervailing charges, and import sur- October 1. All restrictions on the importation and exportation of gold in any form were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Djibouti is the Djibouti Franc, which is freely convertible into U.S. dollars, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of DF 177.721 = US$1. Buying and selling rates for other curren- cies are set by local banks on the basis of cross rates for the U.S. dollar in international markets. The posted rates are subject to commission charges of 0.5-6.0 percent set by the commercial banks, de- pending on the currency concerned. There is a fixed commission of about DF 1,000 (or US$6.00) for transfers in foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Commercial enterprises are free to negotiate for- ward exchange contracts in respect of commercial and financial transactions through local banks or banks abroad. All transactions are negotiated at free market rates. There are no official schemes for cur- rency swaps or guaranteed exchange rates for exter- nal debt servicing. On September 19, 1980, Djibouti formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and no prescription of currency. The Djibouti franc is issued in notes and coins by the National Bank of Djibouti, which issues and redeems the currency against U.S. dol- lars. Deposits in U.S. dollars constitute the cover for the notes issued. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, no prescription of currency requirements are in force. Djibouti, but the territory as a whole does not con- stitute a free zone. Formally, customs duties are not charged on imports, but in practice, fiscal duties are levied by means of indirect taxes (the general con- sumption tax). The rate of the general consumption tax is 26 percent for luxury goods and 23 percent for all other goods. A surtax of 5 percent is levied on the c.i.f. value of imports other than those covered by the customs tariffs. Certain commodities, including alcoholic beverages, noncarbonated mineral water, petroleum products, khat, and tobacco, are subject to a surtax at various rates. Additional taxes are levied on imported milk products and fruit juice. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, there are virtually no restrictions. Ex- port proceeds may be retained. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No restrictions are imposed on payments for or proceeds from invisibles, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. A tax of 20 percent applies to fees and salaries paid to individuals and legal entities who are not permanent residents of Djibouti for profes- sional purposes. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Under the Investment Code of June 5,1975, enterprises estab- lished or expanded to undertake certain specific economic activities are eligible for various tax exemptions. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Djibouti has a free trade zone in the port of Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Dominica is the Eastern Carib- bean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Carib- bean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1988, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Dominica informed the Fund on December 13, 1979 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry of Finance has delegated to commercial banks certain of its powers to approve sales of foreign currencies within specified limits. The Ministry of Trade administers import and ex- port arrangements and controls. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of territories par- ticipating in the ECCB Agreement must be made in Eastern Caribbean dollars; those with member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR- icoM)2 must be made in the currency of the CAR- ICOM country concerned. Settlements with resi- dents of other countries must be made in the foreign currency that is legal tender in the country where the settlement is being made.3 Foreign Currency Accounts Foreign currency accounts may be operated only with the permission of the Ministry of Finance; such irThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. permission is normally confined to major exporters and foreign nationals not ordinarily resident in Do- minica. The accounts can only be credited with for- eign currencies obtained outside Dominica. Pay- ments from these accounts do not require approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most other goods are imported under open general license, but individual licenses are required for manufactures or items that compete with regionally available products. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon presentation to a bank of documentary evi- dence of purchase. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange control approval. However, commercial banks have been delegated authority to sell foreign currency to local residents, as specified below: (1) for incidentals, EC$100, subject to a limit of EC$500 a person a year; (2) for each trip outside the area served by ECCB, EC$3,000, subject to a maximum of two trips in any 12-month period and upon presentation of travel documents; (3) for bona fide business travelers, EC$1,000 for each day outside Dominica, provided the total does not exceed EC$30,000 in any 12- month period and upon presentation of travel docu- ments; (4) for overseas travel for medical treatment, EC$1,000 a day up to a maximum of EC$30,000 in any 12-month period, subject to the presentation of a medical certificate stating that the journey is nec- essary and upon presentation of travel documents; (5) for educational expenses, including accommoda- tion, up to EC$15,000 a student in each academic year; and (6) for dependents residing abroad, EC$2,400 in any 12-month period (EC$3,600 for minor or incapacitated dependents). Amounts in excess of specified limits may be ob- tained with approval from the Ministry of Finance. Specific approval of the Ministry of Finance may also be obtained for outward remittances of cash gifts up to EC$1,000 a year to each recipient. Profits may be remitted overseas in full, provided that the Comptroller of Inland Revenue has prior knowl- edge of the transfer. 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 134 DOMINICA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and spe- cific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. The conversion of export proceeds to an ECCB currency account is manda- tory, except when the exporter has a foreign cur- rency account into which the proceeds may be paid. Exports of bananas are subject to a levy when the export price exceeds a minimum level. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sold to a bank or paid into a foreign currency account. There is no restriction on importation of foreign bank notes and coin. Capital All outward transfers of capital or profits require exchange control approval. The purchase by resi- dents of foreign currency securities and of real es- tate located abroad is not normally permitted. Capi- tal transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval, which normally is granted, sub- ject to the payment of any taxes due. Emigrants leaving Dominica to take up residence outside the ECCB area may transfer up to EC$30,000 per family from their assets, subject to income tax clearance. Direct investment in Dominica by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the invest- ment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in Dominica. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to fi- nance their domestic operations requires the ap- proval of the Ministry. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Small quan- tities of gold may be imported with the approval of the Ministry of Finance, for industrial purposes only. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments July 11. The customs service charge was reduced from 1.5 percent of the c .i .f. value of imports to 1 percent. Payments for Invisibles January 1. The withholding tax on profits, divi- dends, and other income accruing to nonresidents was made applicable only when these earnings are transferred abroad. July 11. The 1.5 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange for invisible transactions was abolished. Capital January 1. An investment tax credit of 10 percent was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Dominican Peso. A dual exchange rate system, con- sisting of an official exchange rate and a preferential exchange rate, is in operation. The Central Bank administers all foreign exchange transactions; all exchange receipts must be surrendered, and most payments require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Only foreign exchange purchases by private individuals for specified current invisibles up to US$5,000 for each transaction and up to a limit of US$10,000 a year do not require prior approval. On December 30, 1988, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank in terms of the U.S. dollar were RD$6.33 and RD$6.35, respectively, per US$1. A preferential exchange rate of RD$5.15 per US$1 ap- plies to certain import payments and debt-service payments. A commission equivalent to 20 percent of the f.o.b. value of imports is collected by the Customs Office, and the proceeds are deposited in the Cen- tral Bank for the servicing of external debt.1 Pro- ceeds from exports of sugar and mineral products are subject to a surcharge equivalent to the dif- ference between the exchange rate of the day and the exchange rate of RD$4.00 per US$1. Other ex- change transactions in U.S. dollars between the Central Bank and other banks carry a commission of l/32 of 1 percent. Commercial banks charge their customers commissions of lk of 1 percent (buying) and l/2 of 1 percent (selling); an additional commis- sion of 1 percent is levied on payments by letter of credit. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Monetary Board and is administered by the Central Bank. A commission, composed of representatives of the Central Bank, the Ministry of Finance, and the Office of the President, determines priorities for the servicing of public sector external debt. Com- mercial banks transact in foreign exchange under central bank supervision and at exchange rates set 1 Imports of food, fertilizer, petroleum, medicine, and agri- cultural products are exempted from this commission. by the Central Bank. Payments abroad are subject to documentation and limited to transactions via com- mercial banks. At the end of 1988, there were 22 commercial banks operating in the foreign ex- change market in the Dominican Republic. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Imports from the United States that are financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development must be made under special letters of credit. Settle- ments with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Co- lombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through special ac- counts established under reciprocal credit agree- ments within the framework of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Import payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar must be made through letters of credit. Otherwise, no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other resi- dents regarding the currency to be used for pay- ments to or from nonresidents. Foreign Currency Accounts Commercial banks may open time deposits (mini- mum balance of US$1,000) and savings deposits (minimum balance of US$100) denominated in U.S. dollars. Use of funds on these accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are effected at the official exchange rate determined by the Central Bank. Import settle- ments against collection or by draft must be de- nominated in U.S. dollars. Imported merchandise requires a Central Bank certification of the use of foreign currency for customs clearance. Most im- ports are subject to an exchange commission equiv- alent to 20 percent of the f.o.b. value. In principle, "nominal duty rates" range from a minimum of 40 percent to nearly 900 percent for imports of malted beverages. Most of the nominal duty rates at the three- and four-digit level of the tariff schedule range between 40 percent and 75 percent. An inter- nal consumption tax of 20 percent ad valorem and a 4 percent surcharge on the total amount of all customs charges are applied on all imports, subject to the minimum duty of 20 percent, with the excep- tion of agricultural and industrial machinery and 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 136 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC inputs for the manufacture of agrochemical prod- ucts, which are subject to a 5 percent duty. In Feb- ruary 1988, the reference exchange rate used to evaluate imports for customs taxes was modified. Essential imports are evaluated on the basis of RD$3.36 per US$1, and nonessentials at RD$5 per US$1 (sliding up to RD$10 per US$1 for imported cars, depending on engine size). Payments for Invisibles All categories of invisible payments, with the ex- ception of profit remittances and royalty payments, may be made freely through commercial banks, subject to documentation requirements. Annual profit remittances cannot exceed the equivalent of 25 percent of the net value of original and additional investment plus reinvestment minus repatriation, duly registered in the Foreign Department of the Central Bank. Nonresident tourists who surrender foreign ex- change to commercial banks upon arrival may re- convert up to 30 percent of the total amount surren- dered (maximum of up to the equivalent of US$5,000) upon departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are temporarily prohibited, in- cluding some food products and animal species, unprocessed wood (for environmental protection purposes), and blood (for public health reasons). In addition, products imported under specified bilat- eral trade agreements are prohibited from being exported under the terms of such agreements. A number of products (such as sugar, molasses, cof- fee, and cocoa) are subject to prior authorization. Export licenses, issued by the Dominican Center for Export Promotion (CEDOPEX), are required for all products. With specified exceptions, exporters must, within two working days of receiving payments, surrender to the Central Bank, through the commercial banks, foreign exchange equal to 100 percent of the value of their exports. For the purposes of exchange sur- render, declared export prices must equal or exceed the minimum export prices established by CEDOPEX for certain exports. Firms operating in industrial free zones and ex- porting ferronickel are exempted from the exchange surrender requirements and are required to convert only the foreign exchange needed by them to cover local costs and taxes. Law No. 69 provides for the issuance of tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario—CATs) for a value not exceeding 15 percent of the f .o.b. or c . i .f. value of exports; the percentage can be up to 25 per- cent when exports contain a high degree of domes- tic agricultural inputs. The CATs are, in principle, fully negotiable and can be used for the payment of taxes or other obligations to the Government. However, only a limited number of CATs have been issued. Law No. 69 also regulates the system of temporary admission for imports, under which du- ties are waived for any imports used in the manufac- ture of nontraditional products to be exported within a year. Nontraditional exports are entitled to a refund of a percentage of the import duties paid on raw mate- rials or component parts used in the manufacture of goods subsequently exported; the refund is 90 per- cent on exports containing only imported inputs, 95 percent on exports containing domestic inputs, and 100 percent on exports produced in the indus- trial free trade zone.2 Exporters are also eligible for a refund of 95 percent of any internal tax levied on locally manufactured goods that are exported. Ex- porters may not extend credit to foreign buyers for more than 90 days from the date of shipment with- out authorization by the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from all invisibles must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the commercial banks. Proceeds originating in transactions with foreigners using international credit cards are also subject to the same surrender requirements as those applicable to exports. The import of Dominican bank notes and coin is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward movement of capital by either residents or nonresidents. However, direct foreign investment is regulated by Law No. 861 of July 19,1978, which created a Direc- torate of Foreign Investment to approve direct in- vestment requests. Such investments must be regis- tered with the Central Bank. Outward remittances related to investments require the approval of the Central Bank. Foreign debt can be contracted directly by the Central Government, subject to congressional au- thorization. According to Law No. 251 of 1964, new loans by other public and private entities require Monetary Board authorization. According to a set of 2 Nontraditional exporters who qualify under the temporary import regime of Law No. 69 are also fully exempted from pay- ment of import duties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 137 criteria established by the Monetary Board on November 19, 1981, priority in the approval of new loans is given to foreign borrowing for export, im- port substitution, and social projects such as hous- ing and education. Total financial charges on for- eign loans are not allowed to exceed the principal international interest rate by more than 3 percent. There are also minimum maturity requirements ac- cording to the type of financing. Since January 23, 1985, the Central Bank has provided foreign exchange for the servicing of pub- lic external debt at the market rate; the servicing of private external debt is effected through the market. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for numismatic pur- poses. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement February 11. The freely floating exchange rate sys- tem was abolished, and a temporary exchange ar- rangement (to be effective for 90 days) was intro- duced. The Central Bank would set the exchange rate for the peso and appreciate it on a weekly basis. The Central Bank's buying and selling rates were initially set at RD$5.40 = US$1 and RD$5.45 = US$1, respectively. June 6. All foreign exchange transactions were transferred to the unified exchange market (which was previously introduced on November 12, 1987), with the exception of payments for oil and other essential public sector imports and the servicing of foreign debt, to which a preferential exchange rate of RD$5.15 = US$1 would be applied. June 23. The Central Bank suspended the opera- tions of the exchange banks and set the buying and selling rates for all authorized foreign exchange transactions at RD$6.43 - US$1 and RD$6.47 - US$1, respectively. At the same time, the au- thorities created a Certificate of Monetary Correc- tion (CCM) which would be used to cover essential imports. It would be denominated in U.S. dollars for a minimum of US$15,000 with terms of 60, 90, and 120 days. The total issue would be for US$100 million. These instruments would be sold through the commercial banks at an exchange rate between the rate on the day of sale and up to 15 cents below that rate, depending upon the term of the CCM. The interest and exchange rates that would apply to the CCM at the time of redemption were to be set later. August 1. A new exchange system was estab- lished, under which the Central Bank would ad- minister all foreign exchange transactions. All for- eign exchange receipts were required to be surrendered, and most payments were subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Only foreign exchange purchases by private individuals for spec- ified current invisibles up to US$5,000 for each transaction and US$10,000 a year would not require prior approval. The midpoint official exchange rate wassetatRD$6.34 = US$1. A preferential exchange rate of RD$5.15 = US$1 would continue to apply to certain import payments and debt-service pay- ments until December 31,1988. After December 31, 1988, only payments for oil imports would be effected at the preferential exchange rate. Foreign Currency Accounts May 12. Commercial banks were permitted to offer time deposits (minimum balance of US$1,000) and savings deposits (minimum balance of US$100) denominated in U.S. dollars. Depositors may use them for any external payments, including futures contracts. The maximum allowable annual interest rates were 1 percent above the prevailing rate on U.S. savings accounts for savings deposits and 1 percent above the 90-day Eurodollar rate for time deposits. With the agreement of the depositor and the commercial bank, the funds could be placed into special accounts at the Central Bank and would earn an additional 1 percent a year. May 13. The exchange deposit account estab- lished on November 12, 1987 was eliminated. May 20. Dollar-denominated accounts were per- mitted in mortgage banks and savings and loan associations. Administration of Control January 14. It was announced that, effective March 14,1988, only the Central Bank could operate foreign exchange offices at airports, ports, hotels, and other tourist establishments. February 11. Exchange banks were required to sell their holdings of foreign exchange to commercial banks for delivery to the Central Bank. All excess ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 138 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC dollar balances held by the exchange banks as of Friday noon of each week were to be sold to the commercial banks. Foreign exchange would be sold to importers through the commercial banks. April 30. The responsibility to collect the 20 per- cent commission on sales of foreign exchange for imports was transferred from the Central Bank to the Customs Office. May 13. Exchange banks were required to ex- change a monthly quota of no less than US$25,000 in the Central Bank. June 23. Exchange banks were closed indefinitely. Imports and Import Payments February 8. The reference exchange rate applied to the valuation of imports for customs taxes was mod- ified, whereby the customs duties on essential im- ports were assessed on the basis of RD$3.36 = US$1, and nonessential imports, at RD$5 = US$1 (with a sliding scale of up to RD$10 for automobiles, depending upon engine size). April 29. A one-year prohibition on the importa- tion of large-size automobiles and luxury goods, including many household items, jewelry, trans- port vehicles with less than 16-person capacity, and pickup trucks, was imposed. Payments for Invisibles January 12. Tourist card prices were raised from RD$5 to RD$10. Exports and Export Proceeds January 26. The graduated tax on coffee exports was modified. Export proceeds in excess of those corresponding to a price of RD$2.5 a pound were taxed at 30 percent; export proceeds in excess of those corresponding to a price of RD$3 a pound were taxed at 40 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles January 14. Foreign exchange receipts of travel agencies and casinos became subject to the sur- render requirement. January 28. The Central Bank began to pay RD$0.03 above the official rate (in terms of the U.S. dollar) for private remittance inflows effected through the commercial banking system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran Sucre. At present, there are three exchange rates: the offi- cial rate of S/. 390 per US$1, which is used for the accounting purposes of the Central Bank of Ecuador only; the intervention market rate of the Central Bank; and the free market rate. As of August 31, 1988, all foreign trade transactions of the private sector, as well as some other private sector foreign exchange transactions (mainly those of the national press and of eligible students abroad) take place on the intervention market of the Central Bank. This market has a single rate but operationally has two segments—one for the public sector (where all pub- lic sector transactions take place) and the other for the private sector (where a foreign exchange alloca- tion system governs private sector transactions). Those private sector transactions that do not take place in the intervention market take place in the free market. The intervention rate of the Central Bank is adjusted weekly, on the basis of a prean- nounced peg rate (to date, a weekly depreciation of S/. 2.50 against the U.S. dollar); the buying and selling rates are set at 5 percent below and 5 percent above the published rate, respectively. On Decem- ber 30, 1988, the exchange rate was equal to S/. 432.50 per US$1 in the intervention market of the Central Bank, and S/. 505.58 per US$1 in the free market (averages of buying and selling rates). In the public sector segment of the intervention market, the Central Bank is authorized to purchase the foreign exchange proceeds relating to the fol- lowing transactions: the f .o .b. value of exports of crude oil and petroleum products; interest earned on international reserves; all public sector income in foreign currency, including foreign loan disburse- ments; foreign exchange balances on public sector deposits in foreign currency at the Central Bank (when considered in excess of the normal require- ments of each entity); and all other transactions of the Central Bank. The Central Bank is authorized to sell foreign exchange relating to payments of the following operations in the public sector segment of the intervention market: the c .i .f. value of public sector imports; purchases of services abroad by the public sector; interest payments and principal amortization in foreign currency of the public sec- tor; transfer of surpluses of foreign oil companies operating in Ecuador; and all other transactions of the Central Bank. In the intervention market for the private sector, the Central Bank is authorized to buy 100 percent of the f .o .b. value of all private sector export proceeds. Twice a week the Central Bank determines the max- imum amount of foreign exchange available (set at 90 percent of the previous week's purchases) and sells this amount for the payment of the c . i .f. value of private sector imports, and for the foreign ex- change required by the national press and by stu- dents abroad who have obtained financing from the Ecuadoran Institute for Education Loans. Requests for foreign exchange have to be submitted to the Committee for Foreign Exchange Sales (Comite de Venta de Divisas) through authorized banks, finan- cial companies, or professional organizations (Federadones Nacionales de Cdmaras), none of which can submit requests in excess of 20 percent of the total amount offered at each biweekly session. Re- quests for foreign exchange for import payments can be presented only on the basis of import permits granted at least 30 days before the session. Requests are satisfied according to the chronological order of the date of issuance of the import permits. The amount of foreign exchange received by each par- ticipating institution is determined on a pro rata basis, given by the ratio of the total amount offered to the total amount requested multiplied by the amount requested by the institution in question. The Central Bank is authorized to purchase foreign exchange in anticipation of future exports, within a maximum period of 90 days. Under transitional arrangements, the Central Bank is obliged to provide foreign exchange at the intervention market rate for the following payments: imports for which permits were granted up to Au- gust 11, 1986; the redemption of foreign currency stabilization bonds; the servicing of the private sec- tor external debt for which the foreign exchange was sold to the Central Bank up to August 11, 1986; profit remittances and capital repatriation gener- ated by foreign investments for which the foreign currency was sold to the Central Bank up to Au- gust 11, 1986; and expenses incurred abroad by students and handicapped persons for which a con- tract was approved by the Central Bank up to Au- gust 11, 1986. To meet obligations arising from im- port permits granted up to August 11, 1986, the Central Bank is authorized to issue foreign currency stabilization bonds, provided the countervalue in sucres has been deposited with the Central Bank 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 140 ECUADOR and all the requirements for payment abroad have been fulfilled. The maturity of the bonds runs from the date of fulfillment of such requirements, and is equal to 12 months for payments up to the equiv- alent of US$5,000; for payments above this figure, the Central Bank will issue four stabilization bonds, each amounting to 25 percent of its obligation, with maturities of 12,16,20, and 24 months, respectively. In no case can the bonds be redeemed before 6 months after their date of issue. The bonds carry an interest rate equal to the 3-month LIBOR (or equiv- alent rate in non-U.S. dollar currencies), and inter- est is paid at the redemption date. The final dead- line for submitting applications for foreign currency stabilization bonds was October 30, 1988. Most borrowings abroad are subject to an ex- change tax ranging from 0.5 percent to 2 percent. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Ecuador formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, with effect from August 31, 1970. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, and Poland take place through bilateral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Do- minican Republic, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, and Venezuela must be made within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Ex- change proceeds from other countries must be re- ceived in convertible currencies. Whenever pos- sible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two catego- ries: List I, consisting of priority goods ("Special Group"), essential goods (Group A, consisting of capital goods, inputs for agriculture and industry, and consumer goods with no local substitutes), and semi-essential goods (Group B, consisting of prod- ucts with some local equivalent, except luxury goods); and List II, consisting of luxury goods. All goods not included in these two lists are prohibited. Mainly for reasons of industrial protection, certain imports require prior authorization from govern- ment ministries or agencies. As of December 31, 1988, imports of motor vehicles have been pro- hibited, as have been imports of capital goods other than those financed by the proceeds of loans from international organizations and governments and their agencies. A prior import deposit scheme introduced in October 1987 was modified in 1988. As of Au- gust 31,1988, the scheme has required both private and public sector importers to lodge at the Central Bank a non-interest-bearing 120-day deposit in do- mestic currency. The rate of deposit for private sec- tor imports is 60 percent of the c.i.f. value for goods on List I, Group A (essential goods); 100 percent for goods on List I, Group B (semi-essential goods); and 160 percent for goods on List II (luxury items). The rates for public sector imports are half of the above rates. Priority goods (List I, "Special Group") are exempt from the deposit requirement. Nor does the requirement apply to nonreimbursable imports fi- nanced by loans from international organizations, certain donations, imports originating in or pro- ceeding from Andean Group countries, and im- ports with payments deferred by 120 days or more from the date of shipment. With specified exceptions, prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports. Books, news- papers, periodicals, and printed music may be im- ported with or without prior import licenses. Medi- cines and spare parts for machinery and automotive vehicles are free of license when valued at US$500 f.o.b. or less, but all applicable charges and taxes must be paid on them. In addition, the State Pe- troleum Corporation may import supplies, mate- rials, and equipment necessary for the conduct of its business during emergency situations without ob- taining a prior import license. With specified excep- tions, requests for import licenses for goods in- cluded under List I, Special (priority goods) and for imports with deferred payments of 120 days or longer have to be accompanied by a foreign ex- change guarantee from an authorized bank or fi- nancial company for the c . i .f. value of the imported goods. A few goods may be imported only from member countries of the LAIA, and some only from Paraguay. With these exceptions, import licenses are issued freely irrespective of the origin of goods, provided that the appropriate import taxes (includ- ing import surcharges) have been paid, prior minis- terial authorization (where applicable) has been ob- tained, and a certificate has been submitted showing that insurance has been arranged in Ec- uador. The inspection of merchandise imports by an international agency to ensure conformance with the import permit was terminated in January 1988. Upon arrival of the merchandise, the importer must settle up to 20 percent of total f .o .b. value in cash for imports for which the Central Bank has provided foreign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 141 All private sector imports are subject to a tax of 10 percent levied on commercial transactions. Fur- thermore, all public sector imports are subject to a service charge of 1 percent of the c.i.f. value. With certain exemptions, imports on List II are subject to an import surcharge of 30 percent ad valorem. There is a temporary duty-free importation scheme for inputs used in export production. Payments for Invisibles All public sector payments for invisibles, includ- ing interest on public debt, are transacted in the intervention market of the Central Bank. Other pay- ments for current invisibles must be settled in the free market and are unrestricted. There are no lim- itations on the amounts of domestic and foreign bank notes that travelers may take out. The arrange- ment for the refinancing of private external debt involves different implicit exchange rates arising from the imposition of charges on the official rate to compensate for possible exchange losses. These rates are applicable to the refinancing of private external credits contracted or endorsed by the do- mestic financial system or directly by the private sector, and to payment of interest on loan proceeds sold to the Central Bank before refinancing or sold in the same way at any time if under Resolution No. 1202, or those sold at the free market beginning from July 1, 1982 up to a day before short- or long- term financing. With respect to foreign loans to petroleum companies, interest, commissions, and other financial charges on foreign loans may not exceed the equivalent of 2 percent above the interest rates in the creditor country, and annual amortiza- tion may not exceed the sum of undistributed profits, depreciation of fixed assets and liquidated assets, and any variation in working capital. Residents traveling abroad by air must pay a tax of US$20 for each exit visa. Airline tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10 percent, and tickets for travel by ship are subject to tax at the rate of 8 percent for departure from Ecuador and 4 percent for the return trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses; licenses are issued freely, subject to guarantee and may be provisional (with a validity of 30 days) or definitive (90 days). All export proceeds must be surrendered on the inter- vention market of the Central Bank not later than: (1) 15 days from the date of shipment for exports against cash payment, exports of bananas, coffee beans, cocoa beans, prawns in any marketable form, and other unprocessed seafood products; (2) 30 days from the date of each shipment for per- ishable products appearing on the lists issued by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration, and Fisheries, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Stockbreeding, provided it is shown that the sale was made on an installment basis or on consign- ment; (3) 30 days from the date of shipment for the remaining primary products, provided it is shown that the sale was made on an installment basis; and (4) 90 days from the date of shipment for products not mentioned above, provided it is shown that the sale was made on an installment basis. Nonobser- vance of the above surrender requirements is sub- ject to penalty, and the Central Bank is authorized to carry out the inspections it considers necessary to verify the proper surrender of export proceeds. The surrender requirement does not apply to exports effected under authorized barter transactions; however, barter transactions require prior approval of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration, and Fisheries; they must be registered with the Cen- tral Bank and are subject to specific limitations. Min- imum reference prices are established for exports of bananas, coffee, fish products, cocoa, and semi- finished products of cocoa to help ensure that ex- change proceeds are fully surrendered. Payment of foreign exchange for petroleum exports will be made on the basis of the sale prices stated in the sale contracts, and must be surrendered within 20 days of the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold in the free market, except for interest income on foreign reserves of the Central Bank and all invisible re- ceipts of the public sector, which are transacted in the intervention market. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market. Most borrowings abroad are subject to an exchange tax ranging from 0.5 per- cent to 2 percent. All foreign direct investment in Ecuador must be registered with the Central Bank. With specified exceptions, new investment requires the prior au- thorization of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Integration, and Fisheries. The Ministry does not authorize direct foreign investment for the purpose of establishing advertising firms, commercial broadcasting stations, television stations, news- papers, or magazines. The Department of Credit ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 242 ECUADOR and Foreign Investment of the Central Bank of Ec- uador must submit a recommendation to the gen- eral management of the Central Bank within 30 days of receipt of the request for registration and all pertinent documentation. Thereafter, the general management of the Central Bank must approve or deny the request for registration for foreign ex- change purposes within an additional 30 days, tak- ing into account the interests of the Ecuadoran economy and priorities established in the country's development plans. In certain cases, where all doc- umentation has been submitted, the Central Bank can provisionally register the investment for a period of up to 90 days. Repatriations of capital and remittances of profits on foreign investments are handled through the free exchange market in respect of those invest- ments that have been effected through this market. There are no time limits on the remittance of profits. The limit on the repatriation of profit remittances is 30 percent a year, or 40 percent for firms that export at least 40 percent of their production. There are no limits on repatriation of capital for the tourism sector and for enterprises that export more than 80 percent of their production. All foreign loans granted to the Government or to official entities, or guaranteed by them, whether or not they involve the disbursement of foreign ex- change, are subject to prior approval by the Mone- tary Board. Suppliers' credits of up to one year's maturity are exempt from this requirement. The request for such authorization must be accom- panied by detailed information of the loan contract and of the investment projects it is intended to finance. In examining the request, the Monetary Board considers the effects that the loan and the related investment may have on the balance of pay- ments in general, and on monetary policy in par- ticular. For public sector entities, the projects to be financed must be included in the General Develop- ment Plan or receive a favorable opinion of the Na- tional Council for Development (CONADE), and at least 20 percent of the total cost of the project must be covered by domestic funds. This requirement does not apply to loans granted by international organizations or national development agencies. New external credits with a maturity of over one year contracted by the private sector, either directly or through the domestic financial system, must be authorized and registered by the Central Bank of Ecuador. Gold Imports and exports of monetary gold are re- served for the Central Bank. The import duty on gold in bars is 10 percent of the c.i.f. value, while the duty on semiworked gold is 40 percent ad valorem; semiworked gold is treated as a List II import. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement March 3. A new foreign exchange market (the regulated market) was established for all foreign trade transactions of the private sector, for foreign private investment, and for the remittance of profits and repatriation of capital generated by such invest- ment. All other private sector transactions were to continue to take place in the free exchange market, and all public sector transactions, in the interven- tion market of the Central Bank. The rate in the regulated market was not to be allowed to diverge by more than 10 percent from the Central Bank's intervention rate (selling rate). August 31. The regulated exchange rate market introduced in March was abolished, and most of the private sector transactions previously carried out in this market were transferred to the intervention market of the Central Bank. The intervention mar- ket rate was changed from SI. 250 per US$1 to SI. 390 per US$1, and it was announced that the interven- tion rate would be depreciated by SI. 2.50 a week against the U.S. dollar. A maximum spread of 10 percent was set between the buying and selling rates in the intervention market. The official rate, used only for the accounting purposes of the Cen- tral Bank of Ecuador, was changed from SI. 95 per US$1 to SI. 390 per US$1. A foreign exchange alloca- tion system for private sector transactions on the intervention market was introduced, under which the private sector was to surrender 100 percent of the f .o.b. value of its merchandise exports, with the Central Bank selling back 90 percent of the proceeds for the payment of the c.i.f. value of private sector imports and some other transactions, in biweekly sessions with the authorized participation of com- mercial banks, financial companies, and profes- sional organizations (Federaciones Nacionales de Cdmaras). September 19. Banks, financial companies, and professional organizations were prohibited from charging a commission on the purchase and sale of foreign exchange on the intervention market. Imports and Import Payments January 7. The inspection of merchandise imports by an international agency to ensure conformance with the import permit was no longer required. February 23. Imports of automobiles were pro- hibited. New prior import deposit requirements ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR 143 were established, under which private sector im- porters were required to lodge a non-interest- bearing 120-day (previously 90-day) deposit in do- mestic currency at the Central Bank in an amount equivalent to 100 percent (previously 50 percent) of the c.i.f. value of imports included under List I, Group B (semi-essential goods), and to 160 percent (previously 80 percent) of the c.i.f. value of imports under List II (luxury items). The requirement of List I, Group A imports (essential goods) was left unchanged at 50 percent of the c.i.f. value, and essential imports of priority goods included under List I ("Special Group") remained exempt from the deposit requirement. March 24. The import deposit requirement on List I, Group A imports (essential goods) was to be phased out according to the following timetable: 40 percent as of April 1; 30 percent as of May 1; 20 percent as of June 1; 10 percent as of July 1; and abolished as of August 1. June 21. The ban on automobile imports was lifted and replaced by specific import quotas. July 1. The prior import deposit requirement for List I, Group A imports (essential goods) was raised from 20 percent to 60 percent of the c.i.f. value of imports, reversing the decision on its gradual phas- ing out adopted on March 24. The other import deposit requirements remained at 100 percent of the c.i.f. value for List I, Group B imports (semi- essential goods) and at 160 percent for List II im- ports (luxury items). August 31. The prior import deposit scheme was extended to public sector imports, with a require- ment to lodge a non-interest-bearing 120-day de- posit in domestic currency at the Central Bank in an amount equivalent to 30 percent of the c.i.f. value of imports included under List I, Group A (essential goods), 50 percent of imports included under List I, Group B (semi-essential goods), and 80 percent of imports included under List II (luxury items). Nei- ther private nor public sector import deposit re- quirements would apply to nonreimbursable im- ports financed with loans from international organizations, certain donations, imports originat- ing or proceeding from Andean Group countries, and imports with payments deferred by 120 days or more from the date of shipment. Imports of auto- mobiles were prohibited, as well as imports of capi- tal goods other than those financed with the pro- ceeds of loans from international organizations. Exports and Export Proceeds January 7. The inspection of merchandise exports by an international agency was no longer required. The Central Bank was authorized to carry out the inspections it considered necessary to verify the surrender of export proceeds. August 31. The period for the surrender of export proceeds to the Central Bank was shortened, from a minimum of 15 days to a maximum of 90 days. Capital August 31. New regulations governing foreign di- rect investment and foreign loans were issued. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian Pound; the U.S. dollar is used as the intervention currency. The exchange rate system consists of two rates: the es- tablished central bank rate and the new bank mar- ket rate. The established buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Egypt for the U.S. dollar on De- cember 31,1988 were LE 0.700 and LE 0.707, respec- tively, per US$1. Established rates for 16 other con- vertible currencies are based on cross rates for these currencies quoted in New York.1 The established central bank rate applies, on the receipts side, to proceeds from: (1) exports of pe- troleum, rice, and cotton; (2) Suez Canal dues; and (3) Sumed pipeline royalties. The established cen- tral bank rate applies, on the payments side, to: (1) settlements for imports of certain essential food- stuffs, insecticides, and fertilizers; and (2) specified public sector capital transactions. All external debt- service payments are effected at the established rate, with the exception of suppliers' credits for imports of capital goods by the public sector, which are effected at the new bank market rate (see below). Until March 19, 1988, the commercial bank pool rate applied to transactions taking place through the commercial bank pool. On May 11, 1987, about 40 percent of the transactions that were effected through this pool were transferred to the new bank market, and almost all the remaining transactions were transferred on November 18, 1987. After November 19, 1987, the commercial bank pool rate applied to a very limited number of transactions, while continuing to be used for customs valuation purposes. Beginning June 1, 1987, the commercial bank pool rate was changed on several occasions; on December 31, 1987, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar stood at LE 1.87 and LE 1.88 per US$1, respectively. The commercial bank pool mar- ket was abolished on March 19, 1988. A new exchange market (the new bank market) was introduced, starting May 11,1987. All commer- cial banks authorized to carry business in both for- eign and domestic currency (38 banks) and 2 travel agencies were permitted to operate in this market. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. The exchange rate in this market is set by a commit- tee of eight members (four representatives of the public sector banks, two from the joint-venture banks, and two from the private sector banks). Two observers, one from the Central Bank of Egypt and one from the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, attend the committee meetings. The commit- tee meets at the end of each business day to fix the rate, which is binding for all transactions effected in the market the following business day. Cross rates are established on the basis of the London exchange market rates. In setting the rates, the committee uses four indicators (supply, demand, working bal- ances of the banks, and assessment of general mar- ket trends). The rate, which was initially set at LE 2.165 - US$1 on May 11, 1987, moved to LE 2.190 - US$1 by December 31, 1987. During 1988, it fluctuated between LE 2.190 and LE 2.35 per US$1, and on December 31,1988, it stood at LE 2.35 = US$1. The selling rate is set by the addition of V4 of 1 percent to the buying rate set by the committee, with half of this difference (Vs of 1 percent) accruing to an account of the Ministry of Finance with the Central Bank. The authorized banks may buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves at the ex- change rate determined by the committee plus an additional Vie of 1 percent. A number of special exchange rates are also in effec t. At the end of December 1988, a rate of LE 0.70 = £ 1 applied to visible and invisible trade transac- tions within the framework of the bilateral pay- ments agreement with the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, and a rate of LE 2.0 = £ 1 applied to those visible trade transactions effected under the bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. A rate of LE 1.30 = US$1 applied to transactions effected under the bilateral payments agreement with Sudan. In addition, a rate of LE 0.3913 = US$1 is used for liquidation of accounts related to past bilateral payments agreements. The free bank mar- ket rate with a 12 percent discount applies to trans- fers by foreign aviation companies relating to opera- tions transacted before March 15, 1988. Surpluses realized after that date are transferred at the free bank market rate. The Central Bank has determined maximum op- erating balances in foreign exchange for each autho- rized bank in the new bank market. Any excess over this amount has to be sold twice a week to a special account in the name of the Central Bank at the rate 144 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 145 set the day the operation takes place plus Vie of 1 percent. The Central Bank has also set a limit on banks' negative operating balances on which it will cover any exchange loss resulting from a deprecia- tion of the rate (the limit is set at 6 percent of each bank's foreign currency deposits). Each bank authorized to operate in the new mar- ket was required to swap a minimum of 3 percent of its foreign currency deposits outstanding as of De- cember 31,1986 with the Central Bank in return for Egyptian pounds for a renewable period of three months at the exchange rate prevailing in the new market. The Egyptian pound equivalent is re- evaluated at the time of settlement every three months, with the difference made up in Egyptian pounds according to the exchange rate of the day of settlement. Interest is not paid on the U.S. dollars or on the Egyptian pounds. On May 11,1987, the following transactions were authorized in the new bank market. On the receipts side: (1) workers' remittances; (2) tourism receipts; (3) bank purchases from all types of foreign ex- change accounts and foreign bank notes or other means of payment; (4) retained private sector export receipts; (5) surrendered private sector export re- ceipts of live goats and sheep, molasses, and fish; and (6) specified public sector export receipts. On the payments side: (1) specified public sector visible and invisible payments within the limits estab- lished by the foreign exchange budget; (2) some private sector invisible payments (but excluding debt-service payments), according to current reg- ulations;2 (3) private sector imports, including those of Law No. 43 companies; and (4) settlements of letters of credit opened by the private sector before May 11, 1987, provided that documents are negoti- ated after this date. Beginning June 1,1987, foreign exchange grants from the U.S. aid program have been converted at the new bank market rate. Beginning September 15, 1987, companies cov- ered by Law No. 43 (joint ventures) have been per- mitted to remit profits abroad through the new bank market, provided they do not have "own ex- change" in their capital and working accounts. Also, public and private sector payments (visible and invisible) authorized through the new bank market may not be effected through the market until the balance in the export retention accounts has been used up. On November 18, 1987, almost all Effective February 11,1988, the commercial banks have been authorized to use a portion of foreign exchange resources to settle private debt-service obligations due after this date. Priority is given to settlements of private debt obligations related to im- ports, and the Central Bank determines the maximum foreign exchange allocations for each commercial bank. transactions still effected through the commercial bank pool were transferred to the new bank market. These included, on the receipts side: (1) com- missions and bank interest payments; (2) profits of Egyptian companies and banks; (3) proceeds sur- rendered to authorized banks by the private sector from exports of peanuts, fresh onions, fresh garlic, potatoes, and citrus fruits; (4) export proceeds of public sector companies in respect of flax, water- melon, fruits, and vegetables; (5) export proceeds of public sector companies in the chemical and food production sectors; and (6) export proceeds of pub- lic sector companies within the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Information, such as books, films, and television programs. On the payments side, additional import payments by the public sec- tor were transferred to the new bank market, and they are effected at the new bank market rate. Private sector payments not authorized through the new bank market may be effected through free accounts held with domestic banks ("own ex- change") at a rate agreed among the parties. These payments include some invisibles and servicing of foreign currency loans obtained through local banks. Forward transactions are authorized for pur- chases and sales of foreign currencies through the central bank pool. Three percentage points are ap- plied to the spot rates to determine the forward rates. Forward transactions, subject to the approval of the Central Bank, may be conducted with respect to merchandise export and import transactions. Administration of Control A foreign exchange budget for public sector ex- change transactions is established annually. Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transac- tions through the new bank market, within the framework of a general authorization, without the need to obtain specific exchange control approval. The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade super- vises imports and exports by the public sector. Cer- tain imports and exports are reserved for public sector entities. Port Said City is accorded the status of a free zone. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Egypt does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in any convertible currency, in Egyp- tian pounds, or in a convertible currency to the debit or credit of the appropriate Free Account (see sec- tion on Nonresident Accounts, below), or in any ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 146 EGYPT other manner prescribed or permitted by the for- eign exchange regulations. However, the proceeds from raw cotton exports to all countries during the September 1988-August 1989 season must be re- ceived in U.S. dollars, with the exception of the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, and Switzer- land, from which such proceeds must be received in their respective currencies or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with countries with which Egypt has bilateral payments agreements are made according to the terms of these agreements.3 However, pay- ments to such countries for imports and various other purposes not covered by these agreements may be made in convertible currency. Certain settle- ments with countries with which indemnity agree- ments concerning compensation for nationalized property are in force are made through special ac- counts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDKs and may be paid by debiting Canal Dues Accounts, Ad- vance Payment Canal Dues Accounts, or Free Ac- counts in Foreign Currency. Canal Dues Accounts must be opened in foreign currency, and balances are transferable abroad. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral payments agreements or to the indemnity agreements concluded with certain countries and Canal Dues Accounts, there are three types of accounts: Free Accounts, D Accounts, and Nonconvertible Capital Accounts. Free Accounts may be opened in the name of any entity other than the Egyptian Government, public authorities, and public sector entities. They may be opened either in foreign currency or Egyptian pounds; the latter are freely convertible. Free Ac- counts in foreign currency may be credited with transfers of convertible currencies from abroad, transfers from other similar accounts, foreign bank notes registered in a customs declaration form, and with the equivalent in foreign currencies from funds transferred from a free account in Egyptian pounds and interest earned on these accounts. These accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, transfers to other similar accounts, withdrawals in foreign bank notes to the owner or others, transfers to free accounts in Egyptian pounds, and for any payment in Egypt, including those for exports and for bank charges and commissions. 3 At the end of December 31,1988, Egypt maintained operative bilateral payments agreements with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Sudan, and the U.S.S.R. Free Accounts in Egyptian pounds may be cred- ited with the equivalent in Egyptian pounds for transfers from abroad in convertible currencies or from a free account in foreign currency; with trans- fers from similar accounts; with proceeds of sales to an authorized bank of foreign currencies registered in a customs declaration form; and with proceeds of sales of bank instruments and interest on these accounts. These accounts may be debited for the equivalent in Egyptian pounds for transfers abroad in convertible currencies, transfers to other free ac- counts in foreign currency or transfers to similar accounts, funds withdrawn in foreign bank notes on behalf of the owner of the account or others, and funds used to meet local expenditures of the settle- ments of the value of export goods. D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a country with which Egypt has a bilat- eral payments agreement. The accounts must be designated by the name of the partner country con- cerned. These accounts may be credited with re- ceipts under the respective payments agreement and with the equivalent of transfers authorized from the country of the account holder. They may be debited for transfers to the country of the account holder and for local payments (including those for Egyptian exports) authorized by the implementing regulations and within the scope of the relevant payments agreement. Nonconvertible Capital Accounts may be credited with any payment of a capital nature to a foreigner living outside Egypt that is not remittable under the exchange control regulations. Banks may debit these accounts for charges legally due from the ac- count holder. Accounts held by individuals may be debited up to a limit of LE 10,000 a year for use by the account holder. Accounts held by juridical per- sons may be debited for settlement of outstanding obligations to the Egyptian authorities; they may also be used for payments to residents for services rendered up to a limit of LE 20,000 a year for ex- penses incurred in connection with the activities or residence of the holder's employees in Egypt. Resident Accounts In addition to Free Accounts, which may be opened by both nonresidents and residents, resi- dents may hold Foreign Exchange Retention Ac- counts, Import Accounts in Foreign Exchange, and Capital and Working Accounts. Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts may be opened in the name of authorized recipients and credited with the proceeds from certain exports of goods and invisible receipts. Public sector com- panies may use these funds for their purposes ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 147 within the allocations of the foreign exchange bud- get, transfer them to other public sector companies within the same sector, or sell them to the autho- rized banks. Private sector exporters may debit these accounts for visible and invisible payments related to their economic activity or sell the ex- change in the new bank market, but may not trans- fer these funds to free accounts. Holders of private sector export retention accounts are entitled— without the need to submit any documentation—to use up to 25 percent of the proceeds of their exports for the financing of travel expenses for the exporter or his employees, for other invisible payments re- lated to the account holder's activity, and for settling of repatriation requirements. Unused balances in retention accounts owned by the public sector, un- less exempted, must be sold periodically to the banking system at the new bank market rate. If the balances in the retention accounts owned by the public sector entities originate from invisible pro- ceeds, unutilized balances must be surrendered monthly. In addition, balances in these accounts must be fully utilized by the account holder before authorized transactions can be effected by the pub- lic or private sector through the new bank market. Import Accounts in Foreign Exchange may be opened by authorized banks in the name of Egyp- tian nationals. These accounts may be credited with transfers in convertible currencies, transfers from free accounts in foreign exchange or in Egyptian pounds, transfers from another import account in foreign exchange, the equivalent in free currency of any amount of foreign exchange deposited by cli- ents (regardless of the means and the source), and with bank interest. They may be debited for the financing of imports of the private sector on behalf of the account holder or others, for transfers abroad to cover invisible transactions related to the activity of the account holder, for settlements of obligations related to import transactions effected on behalf of the private sector, and to cover in the form of foreign bank notes and other acceptable means of payment the expenditures of the account holder or others abroad within the limit of US$500 (or its equivalent) a calendar year, provided that the amount drawn is registered on the user's passport and travel ticket. Withdrawal in cash by the account holder is permit- ted without any limit. Capital and Working Accounts may be opened by companies covered by Law No. 43 (joint ventures). These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad or transfers from other similar accounts, and may be debited with payments by the account holder (e.g., imports, profit remittances, interest payments, other invisible payments, and financing of local expenditures) or with transfers to other sim- ilar accounts. Holders of these accounts are not per- mitted to use the new bank market resources before their balances in these accounts are fully utilized. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. A Supreme Council for the Planning of Foreign Trade is entrusted with formulation of a long-term policy for exports and imports, control of the annual export and import plan, and supervision of the execution of the foreign exchange budget. Most imports from payments agreement countries (except those made under the own-exchange arrangement), as well as imports of specified goods from any source, are reserved for the public sector. Certain private trade with payments agreement countries is not restricted. Imports by the Central Government, public au- thorities, and public sector companies are effected within the provisions of the foreign exchange bud- get through the central bank pool and the new bank market. Private sector imports are effected through the new bank market or from own resources. For purposes of administration, the economy is divided into several sectors (agriculture, industry, transpor- tation, etc.). The annual foreign exchange budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of each sector decide on the goods to be imported and the entities that are to import them within that quota. All imports fi- nanced by the Central Bank are effected at the es- tablished rate, with the exception of capital goods imports under suppliers' credits, which are effected at the new bank market rate, and imports under bilateral payments agreements, which are effected at a special, more appreciated rate (except for im- ports from the U.S.S.R. (see section on Exchange Arrangement, above)). Beginning May 11, 1987, imports by the private sector have taken place through the new bank mar- ket or through the own-exchange system. There is a prohibited list containing 210 items, with all com- modities not included on the prohibited list being freely imported. Certain goods (e.g., imports fi- nanced with bilateral and multilateral assistance, components imported by licensed local manufac- turers and assembly units, and free zone imports) are exempted from the negative list, and the items on the negative list may be imported with the ap- proval of the Ministry of Economy. On application to open a letter of credit, private sector importers (in- cluding companies covered by Law No. 43) must lodge with an authorized bank a 35 percent prior import deposit in domestic or foreign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 148 EGYPT These deposits have to be financed from the im- porters' own resources. Importers are required to cover 100 percent of a letter of credit when it is opened. Banks are allowed to finance all or part of the remaining 65 percent. When suppliers' credit facilities are available, the importer may not be re- quired to cover the remaining 65 percent of the letter of credit, depending on the conditions of the sup- pliers' credit agreement. Goods may not be shipped before a letter of credit is opened, except for imports of spare parts needed for machinery and equipment for production activities financed through the use of balances in export retention accounts, provided that the importer pledges to present certification that, within two months, the parts were used or installed in accordance with the relevant regulations. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange through the new bank market for all invisible pay- ments by the public sector, within the framework of the foreign exchange budget and in accordance with current rules and regulations, provided that the public sector entities concerned have used up the balances of their retention accounts. Invisible pay- ments by the private sector are financed through the new bank market (e.g., authorized pilgrimage and medical treatment abroad, specified payments for emigrants, etc.). Egyptian nationals are entitled to retain their earnings in foreign exchange in free accounts and may use this foreign exchange freely for invisible payments abroad. They may also ac- quire additional foreign exchange through the me- dium of free accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Profit remittances by companies covered by Law No. 43 are authorized through the new bank market, provided funds in capital and working accounts are used up first. Only Egyptian nationals and foreigners who have lived in the country for a continuous period of five years and foreigners permitted to reside in Egypt for a period of ten years can purchase airline tickets under certain conditions (one-way or round-trip originating in Egypt) in Egyptian pounds. With this exception, all others must purchase tickets with con- vertible currencies or with Egyptian pounds con- verted at the new bank market exchange rate. Travelers may not export more than LE 20 in Egyptian bank notes. Egyptian travelers may take with them any foreign exchange that they have ac- quired legitimately; foreign travelers leaving Egypt may reconvert their remaining Egyptian pounds after deducting US$30 for each night spent in Egypt, provided that evidence is produced that Egyptian pounds were obtained at the new bank market exchange rate. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from exports to South Africa, which are prohibited, and commodities required for the na- tional economy that may be restricted, exports may be made without license. Exports of many products are organized and supervised by foreign trade com- mittees. Cotton, rice, and petroleum are exported by the public sector only, and their proceeds must be repatriated within three months. Proceeds from exports of books, newspapers, and other publications must be repatriated as soon as they are received and in any case within a period not exceeding five years from the date of shipment. Proceeds from all other exports must be repatriated within one year from the date of shipment. Pro- ceeds from exports of petroleum, cotton, and rice have to be sold to the Central Bank. Proceeds from exports of other products may be fully retained in foreign exchange retention accounts with the excep- tion that only 50 percent of the proceeds from ex- ports of peanuts, onions, garlic, potatoes, citrus, live goats and sheep, fish, and molasses may be retained. Proceeds from exports by both private and public sectors to bilateral payments agreement countries are obtained in Egyptian pounds, in ac- cordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. All departing foreigners who are carrying on their person gifts valued at more than LE 250 are required to show evidence that foreign exchange equivalent to the excess value has been exchanged at an autho- rized bank at the new bank market exchange rate. The corresponding limit on excess value applied to Egyptian nationals is LE 100, and that for purchases left behind with Khan El Khalil merchants is LE 500 (provided that they are exported within three months from the date of the traveler's departure and that proof is provided that he visited Egypt). Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings abroad by persons and juridical entities other than the Egyptian Government, public au- thorities, and public sector entities may be held abroad or retained indefinitely in Free Accounts. Receipts from tourism must be surrendered to the banking system at the new bank rate. However, privately owned hotels are allowed to retain 25 per- cent of their foreign exchange earnings in their re- tention accounts. Hotels operating under Law No. 43 are allowed to retain all of their foreign ex- change earnings in their retention accounts. Travel ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 149 agencies belonging to the private sector are allowed to retain 10 percent of their foreign exchange earn- ings, and 100 percent if they operate under Law No. 43. Public sector hotels are allowed to retain only 10 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds, and Misr Travel (a public sector agency) is allowed to retain 25 percent. Other invisible earnings by public sector entities may be retained to the extent of 10 percent of the total; authorization to retain more or exemption from periodic surrender requirements must be ap- proved by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Certain travel in Egypt by foreigners may be financed from various special accounts, such as those under indemnity agreements with certain countries. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may im- port up to LE 20 in Egyptian bank notes and are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange; a customs declaration is required if the traveler wishes to re-export foreign currency. Capital There are no restrictions on the use or transfer of balances on free accounts maintained in banks op- erating in Egypt. With this exception, outward capi- tal transfers are restricted. Egyptian emigrants are authorized to transfer abroad funds up to LE 900 a person or LE 3,500 a family, and to export other personal effects and furniture up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a family. Transactions in Egyptian and foreign securities abroad relating to the purchase and sale of these securities must be carried out through authorized banks, provided that the funds used for this pur- pose represent free foreign exchange. Brokers regis- tered on the stock exchanges of Cairo and Alex- andria are authorized to intermediate in the transfer of ownership of securities, whether at home or abroad, and to undertake the local collection or pay- ment in foreign currency of the value of the se- curities. Foreign, joint-venture, and private sector banks are required to deposit 15 percent of their foreign currency deposits with the Central Bank. Transfers of accrued alimony are permitted in accordance with court orders. Foreigners leaving Egypt permanently after a period of residence of at least five years are permitted to transfer abroad the equivalent of LE 5,000 in foreign currencies through authorized banks, irrespective of whether this sum represents capital assets owned by or income ac- crued to the foreign national. Amounts exceeding this sum are deposited in a Nonconvertible Capital Account. Law No. 43 of June 19, 1974 (amended by Law No. 32 of June 9, 1977), concerning the invest- ment of Arab and Foreign Funds and the Free Zones, defines the treatment of new foreign invest- ments. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by this law are considered on an individual basis. Gold Banks are not authorized to deal or speculate (for their own or their customers' account) in precious metals. The import of precious metals and stones for industrial and local market requirements is sub- ject to regulations. The export of gold and silver fabrics may be permitted, provided that the sales proceeds are repatriated in convertible currencies. Travelers are permitted to take out and bring in their gold jewelry within specified limits. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement March 20. Following the transfers of most of the transactions from the commercial bank pool to the new bank market on May 11, 1987 and Novem- ber 18, 1987, all of the remaining transactions were transferred to the new bank market. These transac- tions included those by the spinning, weaving, tex- tile, and mining industries in the public sector as well as by foreign and domestic airline and shipping companies. March 21. The new bank rate with a 12 percent discount would apply to transfers by foreign avia- tion companies of surpluses realized before March 15, 1988; airline surpluses realized after that date would be transferred at the new bank rate. March 21. The exchange rate for customs valua- tion purposes was no longer established each month on the basis of the average commercial bank pool rate of the preceding month. Following the abolition of the commercial bank pool on March 20, 1988, the rate would be set at the discretion of the Minister of Economy; the rate was initially set at LE 1.89 = US$1. May 5. The rates of LE 1.300 = US$1 (buying) and LE 1.303 = US$1 (selling) were established for transactions with Sudan under the bilateral pay- ments agreement. Payments for Invisibles February 11. The commercial banks were autho- rized to use a portion of their available foreign ex- change receipts each month to settle debt-servicing obligations falling due after this date on private ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 150 EGYPT sector debt denominated in foreign currencies owed to banks operating in Egypt, including branches of foreign banks, provided that debtors' own foreign exchange accounts had been drawn down. This drawdown requirement would not apply to free accounts. Priority would be given to settlements of private debt obligations related to imports, and the Central Bank would determine the maximum for- eign exchange allocation for each commercial bank for this purpose. Debts secured by deposits in for- eign exchange or similar guarantees were excluded, and no other transactions were permitted under this arrangement. September 28. Foreigners licensed to reside in Egypt for a period of ten years were allowed to purchase airline tickets in Egyptian pounds (one- way or round-trip originating in Egypt). Capital February 11. (See changes under Payments for Invisibles on servicing of private sector debt.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran Col6n. The Salvadoran colon is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at C5.00 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank for transac- tions with the public are C5.000 buying and C5.075 selling, per US$1. Official market transactions by commercial banks with the public take place within these limits. Buying and selling rates in the official market for other currencies are based on the daily quotations for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Foreign exchange held in approved foreign cur- rency deposit accounts may also be sold to specified registered manufacturers/importers by specified ex- porters directly at a rate which may deviate from the official exchange rate. A stamp tax of 0.1 percent is applicable to all sales of exchange; on amounts be- low (£100,000 the tax is levied at fixed amounts that may slightly exceed 0.1 percent. There are no ar- rangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial bank- ing sector. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Subject to the general directives issued by the Monetary Board, exchange control authority is ex- ercised by the Central Reserve Bank through its Exchange Control Department. Prior authorization by the Exchange Control Department of the Central Reserve Bank is required for all imports in excess of US$300 and for many invisible payments and capi- tal transactions. Exports of a number of commodities require li- censes issued by the Ministry of Economy, subject to agreement by the Ministry of Agriculture. Since January 30,1980, exports of two major commodities have been under government supervision; exports of sugar are governed by the National Sugar In- stitute (INAZUCAR), and those of coffee are governed by the National Coffee Institute (!NCAFE). Most of the exchange proceeds from all exports have been centralized at the Central Reserve Bank. The Central Reserve Bank allocates foreign ex- change to the commercial banks through the Fondo Operative, under which each commercial bank is assigned a maximum foreign exchange operating balance. Commercial banks are required to report daily to the Central Reserve Bank all credits and debits to the Fondo, and each week foreign exchange holdings in excess of the assigned limit are trans- ferred to the Central Reserve Bank, while deficien- cies may be covered by the Central Reserve Bank. In turn, the commercial banks are required to provide foreign exchange to the private sector in accordance with the following list of priorities: (1) basic foods, medicines, raw materials and other intermediate goods needed for production, machinery, equip- ment, spare parts, and external debt-service pay- ments; (2) expenses abroad relating to medical treat- ment, study and travel, and pension transfers; and (3) all other goods, services, transfers, and move- ments of capital. Prescription of Currency On August 20,1986, a new payments mechanism called the Derecho de Importation Centroamericana (DICA) was approved in principle to settle trade transactions with other countries of Central Amer- ica.1 The DICAs are U.S. dollar-denominated, non- interest-bearing, negotiable, transferable obliga- tions of the central bank of an importing country, payable in its local currency within a period of 18 months. The issue of DICAs of an importer by the central bank is subject to the acceptance of the ex- porter. Prior to maturity, DICAs can be freely negoti- ated between exporters and importers in the region at mutually agreed prices, which can differ from the original nominal value of the DICA; at maturity, the DICAs have to be liquidated at the official exchange rate (or average of official exchange rates in case of multiple exchange rates) by the issuing central bank, which will bear the exchange risk arising from any difference between the date of issue and date of liquidation. Certain DICAs can be liquidated prior to maturity; this occurs when a DICA issued by the central bank of a given country and already used for payment of imports from another country is pre- sented for liquidation by an exporter of the same country that originally issued the DICA. Payments to Mexico are settled through a clearing house. Oth- erwise, residents are free to make authorized pay- ments in any currency they choose. irThis payment mechanism became operational in El Salvador in early 1987. 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 152 EL SALVADOR Nonresident Accounts Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign institutions and nonresidents in El Salvador may hold nonresident accounts in foreign currency with authorized banks, provided that such accounts are credited with foreign exchange received from abroad. Banks may also freely open foreign cur- rency accounts, for any period of time and in any amount, in the names of individuals (whether of foreign or Salvadoran nationality) who reside abroad and, for a maximum period of six months, in the names of foreign persons residing in El Salvador for less than six months. All nonresident accounts may be utilized freely, but the commercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements of such accounts. Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts Banks may open foreign currency deposit ac- counts in the name of the enterprises exporting nontraditional goods and services or requiring im- ported inputs and services for production. The ac- counts may be opened in U.S. dollars or in any other approved foreign currency; transactions can be effected only in the currency in which an account is opened. Accounts may be in the form of a demand or time deposit and are subject to a reserve require- ment of 10 percent. The banks must place the funds thus deposited in investments abroad, provided that the maturity of investments does not exceed 30 days for demand deposits, and provided that the maturity of investments from time deposits is the same as the maturity of the time deposit. The banks are required to pay interest on the time deposit at rates of up to 2 percent below LIBOR. Transfers of funds between individual holders of foreign cur- rency deposit accounts are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and are required for only a few items, including airplanes, firearms, ammunition, military equipment, dynamite, cotton for industrial use, jute sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and phar- maceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharin. Permits for private sector imports that exceed the equivalent of US$300 need to be autho- rized by the Exchange Control Department of the Central Reserve Bank. The allocation of foreign exchange for import pay- ments is made according to a set of priority lists. Top priority is assigned to imports of basic foods, medi- cines, raw materials and other intermediate goods needed for production, machinery, equipment, spare parts, and external debt-service payments. Imports from the rest of Central America can be financed by sight drafts, letters of credit, direct pay- ments, or the regional clearing arrangement. Im- ports from outside Central America that can be fi- nanced through sight drafts (cobranzas) are limited to US$10,000. Imports from outside Central Amer- ica in excess of US$10,000 can only be made by means of 90-day letters of credit.2 However, in prac- tice, the Central Reserve Bank also sets limits on the total value of letters of credit each bank can open. Public sector import payments are made by the External Department of the Central Reserve Bank. The External Department handles all official bilat- eral lines of credit, and lines of credit for Industrial Reactivation funded by the Inter-American De- velopment Bank. Imports from countries outside the Central American Common Market (CACM) that apply dis- criminatory restrictions against exports from El Sal- vador must be paid for before customs clearance, with the exception of industrial raw materials, which may be paid for within three years. Also, medicines from Mexico may be paid for within 90 days; this applies also to imports of spare parts from Mexico by importers who are regarded as small enterprises. Imports of many nonessential goods are subject to a selective consumption tax at rates ranging be- tween 10 percent and 125 percent.3 Most goods of Central American origin are exempt. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles of a personal nature (i.e., medical treatment, study abroad, and foreign travel) are subject to the following limits: (1) up to US$5,000 a year to meet expenses for medical treat- ment (additional amounts can be authorized in ex- ceptional cases subject to verification) and a guaran- tee deposit equivalent to 50 percent of the foreign exchange to be placed with the Central Reserve Bank; (2) up to US$8,000 a year for educational ex- penses, plus US$400 a month for living expenses; and (3) up to US$1,500 a year (or US$75 a day for a maximum of 20 days) for nonbusiness trips to coun- tries in Central America (US$700 a year a child un- der 16 years), up to US$1,875 a year (or US$125 a day for a maximum of 15 days) for nonbusiness trips to 2The maturity date of letters of credit was extended to 180 days, effective January 1, 1989. 3The selective consumption tax was abolished on February 14, 1989. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR 153 countries outside Central America (US$900 a year a child under 16 years), and up to a maximum of US$150 a day for business trips, subject to the ap- proval of the Central Reserve Bank. A guarantee deposit of 20 percent of the foreign exchange re- quest in excess of US$400 is required by the com- mercial banks for travel outside of Central America. For residents traveling outside of Central America, the branch of Banco Hipotecario (a mortgage bank) at the international airport is authorized to sell for- eign exchange up to US$800 (on the basis of US$125 a day), without a guarantee deposit, if a traveler can verify that he is still within the applicable annual limits for travel. The authority to grant foreign ex- change for expenses relating to foreign travel and study abroad is delegated to the commercial banks. In the case of private remittances, the Central Re- serve Bank can authorize pension payments to re- tired Salvadoran diplomats living abroad with more than ten years of government service. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for certain foodstuffs and other items for which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local supply. An export registration certificate from the Central Reserve Bank is required for all exports exceeding US$200. Export proceeds from coffee, sugar, and cotton must be surrendered directly to the Central Reserve Bank. In addition, all other export proceeds in ex- cess of US$10,000 received through the commercial banks must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank within one working day. The collection term for export payments normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be authorized by the Exchange Control Depart- ment. The Central Reserve Bank gives "prompt pro- ceeds surrender bonds" to exporters of nontradi- tional goods and services who sell their proceeds within 180 days of receipt. The face value of these bonds, which is equivalent to net of financial charges which the Central Reserve Bank pays on short-term loans, may be freely negotiated and can be used as a warranty for banking credits to cover advanced deposits for imports or to make settle- ments on credits contracted with Central Reserve Bank resources. Exporters of nontraditional products receive a "certificate for discounting taxes" up to the equiv- alent of 20 percent of the value added of export products. These certificates may be used for pay- ment of direct and indirect taxes. Exports of coffee, sugar, and shrimp are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an autho- rized commercial bank. Embassies, consulates, and offices of international organizations in El Salvador and their employees are allowed to deposit their exchange receipts in the special foreign currency accounts in their names for purposes of meeting their foreign exchange requirements. Travelers may bring in C200 in domestic notes and coins; this limit is, however, subject to modification to facilitate bor- der trade with other Central American countries. Capital All exchange receipts resulting from capital trans- actions must be surrendered to the monetary au- thorities, including direct and indirect foreign in- vestment. The entry of capital with a maturity in excess of one year in the form of foreign investment must be registered with the Ministry of Economy. Registration ensures (1) free remittance of net profits on foreign capital invested in industrial en- terprises, enterprises engaged in the extraction of nonrenewable natural resources, and tourist enter- prises; (2) remittance of net profits of enterprises engaged in other activities up to a limit of 10 percent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the Ministry of Economy); (3) repatriation of the proceeds from the total or partial liquidation of the enterprises (after payment of taxes) in proportion to the participation of foreign capital in the total capital; (4) remittance of the sales proceeds of shares and other instru- ments representing investments or participations, including capital gains; and (5) payment of interest and amortization as determined at the time of regis- tration. In the cases under (3) and (4), in addition to the approval of the Exchange Control Department, the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy is required. Payments abroad representing capital transfers require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital. Prior approval by the Exchange Control Department is required for outward remittances of interest and amortization on external loans. Foreign loans with a maturity of up to one year must be authorized by the Central Re- serve Bank; foreign loans with a maturity of more than one year must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy. The Central Reserve Bank is authorized to set ceilings on the utilization of foreign credit by the commercial banks and the mortgage bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 154 EL SALVADOR Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain minimum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by foreign nationals and for those in which foreign nationals have a shareholding inter- est. For purposes of this decree, foreign nationals are defined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five CACM member countries. Gold Gold coins in denominations of C25, C50, CIOO, and C200 have been issued as legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Re- serve Bank; such licenses are granted for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities and industrial users. In practice, imports of nonmonetary unworked gold are made only by jew- elers' cooperatives acting on behalf of their mem- bers and other users for dental purposes. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The number of prohibited import items was reduced from 170 to 106 items. February 1. The rate of advance import deposit requirement for letters of credit was lowered from 100 percent to 75 percent. February 1. The 20 percent guarantee deposit re- quirement was abolished. June 1. The number of prohibited import items was reduced from 106 to 28 items. June 1. The rate of advance import deposit re- quirement for letters of credit was lowered from 75 percent to 50 percent. September 1. The rate of advance import deposit requirement for letters of credit was reduced from 50 percent to 25 percent. December 31. The advance import deposit require- ment for letters of credit was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs be- tween the BE AC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1, free of commission. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris ex- change market. A commission of 0.50 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not mem- bers of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repayments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allowances paid by the Government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of reinsurance premiums. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Equa- torial Guinea's exchange control measures gener- ally do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central Afri- can Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers in excess of CFAF 500,000 to countries of the French Franc Area must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. All other countries are considered for- eign countries. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directo- rate General of Exchange Control (ONCC) in the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating irThe CFA franc circulating in Equatorial Guinea is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Gabon. to all countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries —that is, authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency As Equatorial Guinea is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Trea- sury. Settlements with all other countries are usu- ally made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are Foreign Ac- counts in Francs. BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks and mailed to the BEAC agency in Equatorial Guinea by the Bank of France or the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. All other imports in excess of CFAF 50,000 in value are subject to license, but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Import transactions by residents in- volving goods for use outside Equatorial Guinea must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final destination. Settlements for imports effected under an import license benefit from the authoriza- tion of uninterrupted transfer given to the autho- rized banks by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Op- erations Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 156 EQUATORIAL GUINEA Payments for invisibles related to trade are permit- ted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permit- ted freely when the basic transaction has been ap- proved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Equa- torial Guinea must be surrendered. For business travel, the corresponding allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 450,000 a trip. Of that amount, CFAF 150,000 may be bills. Travelers must present certificates of their activity and permission from their enterprise to travel. Additional allocations may be allowed. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Equatorial Guinea by foreign nationals is permitted up to a limit equivalent to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remit- tances for current repair and management of real property abroad are to be limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. The amount of transfer of the salary of a foreigner work- ing in Equatorial Guinea will be permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher as well as justification of expenses, provided that the trans- fer takes place within a month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Equatorial Guinea temporarily, payments of in- surance premiums to foreign countries up to CFAF 50,000 are permitted; larger amounts may be authorized by the ONCC. Resident and nonresident travelers to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BEAC bank notes. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may, subject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requirements for the appropriate documents. Proceeds from ex- ports to all countries must be repatriated within 30 days of the payment date stipulated in the sales contract. Payments for exports must be made within 30 days of the arrival date of the merchandise at its destination. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected within a month of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Equatorial Guinea and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. Capital transfers to all other countries re- quire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permit- ted freely.2 Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Equatorial Guinea. The approval of the Directorate of Mines is required to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is not normally given, as there are no industrial users in Equatorial Guinea. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users. Exports are allowed only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles Regulations on capital transactions, such as the sale of foreign securities in Equatorial Guinea or direct investments, have been prepared and are pending approval. The authorities are also in the process of drafting legislation aimed at stimulating foreign investment in the agricultural, forestry, construction, public works, mining, and industrial equipment maintenance sectors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA 157 containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and ex- empt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ethiopia is the Ethiopian Birr, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at the official rate of Br 2.07 = US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also officially posted; daily quotations by the National Bank of Ethiopia (the central bank) are set on the basis of the official rate for the U.S. dollar and the previous day's closing rate of the currency con- cerned against the U.S. dollar in London. The Na- tional Bank does not deal with the public; its trans- actions in U.S. dollars with the authorized dealers take place at the official rate. Authorized dealers must observe the official rate for the U.S. dollar and prescribed commission charges, which accrue to the National Bank, of 0.50 percent buying and 1.50 per- cent selling; in addition, they are authorized, but not obliged, to levy service charges for their own account of up to 0.25 percent buying and 0.75 per- cent selling and, for currencies other than the U.S. dollar, to include the margin charges applied by the correspondents abroad. In practice, the authorized charges are usually levied. These commissions are applied also to the National Bank's dealings with the Government and certain public sector entities. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers require the approval of the National Bank to undertake forward exchange transactions. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be car- ried out through authorized dealers under the con- trol of the National Bank. All payments abroad re- quire licenses issued by the Exchange Controller, whose office is a department of the National Bank. All exports are licensed by the Exchange Controller to ensure the surrender of the foreign exchange proceeds, and shipments require permits issued by that office. The Minister of Foreign Trade has statu- tory authority to prohibit, restrict, or regulate im- ports and exports. Arrears are maintained with re- spect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in con- vertible foreign exchange appropriate to the coun- try of the recipient or in U.S. dollars. The net pro- ceeds of exports must be received in a foreign cur- rency that is freely convertible, or in any other ac- ceptable foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may, subject to exchange control approval, open nonresident accounts either in birr or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. De- posits to these accounts can be made only in foreign exchange. Balances on nonresident foreign cur- rency accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between nonresident accounts do not re- quire prior approval. Members of the diplomatic community must use transferable or nontransfer- able birr accounts for payments of local expenses. No resident Ethiopian national may maintain a bank account abroad. A joint venture may be permitted to open foreign currency, transferable or non- transferable, birr accounts to purchase raw mate- rials, equipment, and spare parts not available in the local market. As soon as the goods are received, documentary evidence of entry of the goods pur- chased with such funds must be submitted to the Exchange Control Division. In general, the accounts may be replenished only after such documents have been presented. Blocked accounts of nonresidents are maintained with authorized banks and are used to retain funds in excess of Br 20,000 arising from disinvestments in Ethiopia (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and all imports from other sources require a license. Payments abroad for imports require exchange li- censes, which are obtainable upon presentation of a valid importer's license. Approval of applications for exchange licenses is conditional upon the provi- sion of satisfactory information on costs and pay- ment terms and the submission of evidence that adequate insurance has been arranged with the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation, particularly for goods imported under letters of credit. Foreign ex- change is not made available for a specified group of imported goods (including alcoholic beverages and certain durable consumer goods) considered to be nonessential or readily substitutable by domestic products. Imports of cars and other vehicles require 158 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA 159 prior authorization by the Minister of Transport. Exchange licenses are granted in the currency ap- propriate to the country of origin, or in any convert- ible currency that may be requested. Payments by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight are all normally acceptable, but the National Bank must be con- sulted regarding imports on a cash against docu- ments basis. Certain imports (about 100 items, mostly con- sumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis, and virtually no imports take place on this basis. Importation on suppliers' credits requires prior approval of the terms and conditions of the credit, and such imports are limited to raw and intermediate materials, pharmaceuticals, and ma- chinery and transport equipment. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange li- censes. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign employees may remit monthly up to 30 percent of their net earnings (but only for the first three years of their contract if employed by the private sector); they may remit a maximum of between 40 percent and 50 percent of total net earn- ings during the period of service and upon final departure. Other expatriate employees may on final departure take out the same maximum amount, but not more than Br 20,000 in any one year. Foreign nationals who are not entitled to remittance facili- ties may, however, remit up to 30 percent of their net earnings for the education of their children. Persons traveling abroad are allowed foreign ex- change equivalent to Br 125 a day for a maximum period of 20 days in any one calendar year if the journey is made for business purposes; for tourism, persons 18 years of age or over are allowed up to the equivalent of Br 600 a year. Students are allowed foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Br 500 for study abroad, and Ethiopian nationals having dependents pursuing higher studies at accredited institutions abroad are allowed to remit funds to meet school fees and reasonable expenses. Resi- dents may remit premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 1962. Subject to certain limits and to submission of evidence, persons may obtain foreign exchange allocation for medical treatment and travel abroad of up to Br 10,000. After providing for payment of local taxes, foreign companies may, in principle, remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Br 10 in Ethiopian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports of most cereals to any destination other than Djibouti are also prohibited. All commodity exports require permits from the Exchange Controller and some require, in addition, the approval of specified public bodies. When applying for a permit, an ex- porter must specify the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. For exports on a c.i.f. basis, exporters must obtain full insurance from the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation. The granting of a permit by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing sys- tem is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank, generally within three months, and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Exports of hides and skins are regulated and are prohibited until the needs of local factories have been met. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in Br 10 in Ethiopian currency. Foreign exchange must be de- clared by travelers on entry, and its re-export is subject to authorization, except for temporary visi- tors. Reconversion of birr must be supported by documentary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. Capital Controls over capital movements are designed to restrict outflows, to prevent an unwarranted ac- cumulation of external debt, and to keep the au- thorities informed of the country's external debt position. All receipts of capital in the form of foreign ex- change must be surrendered. Exchange control au- thorization is required, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities estab- lishes evidence of receipt, which is required for repatriation. All recognized and registered foreign investments may be terminated on presentation of documents regarding liquidation and payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropriate documentation, foreign businessmen having non- registered investments may transfer their capital abroad on liquidation and final departure from Ethi- opia, but may not transfer more than Br 20,000 in any one calendar year; funds in excess of this amount must be deposited in a blocked account with an authorized bank. (This regulation does not apply to joint ventures established under the new ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 160 ETHIOPIA foreign investment code.) Transfers by emigrants who had operated their own businesses are re- stricted to Br 20,000 in any one calendar year. Joint ventures are permitted between the Ethio- pian public sector and foreign investors, with up to 49 percent foreign ownership, except in the pre- cious metals, public utilities, telecommunications, banking and insurance, transport, and domestic trade sectors. All applications for joint ventures must be approved by the Office of the National Committee for Central Planning and registered with the Domestic Trade Ministry; a minimum of 25 percent of share capital is required to be paid before registration. Exemptions from income taxes are granted for up to five years for new projects, and for up to three years for extensions to existing proj- ects. Imports of investment goods and spare parts for such ventures are also eligible for exemptions from customs duties and other specified import levies. Such ventures must be limited to 25 years in duration, but could be extended beyond this limit with the approval of the Council of Ministers. Borrowing abroad requires exchange control ap- proval and is restricted. Authorized banks may freely place their funds abroad, except on fixed- term deposit, but they may not acquire securities denominated in foreign currency without the per- mission of the National Bank. In addition, they need the prior approval of the National Bank to overdraw their accounts with foreign correspondents, to bor- row funds abroad, or to accept deposits in foreign currency. Gold The ownership of personal jewelry of which gold or platinum forms a part is permitted. Unless speci- fically authorized by the Minister of Mines, Energy, and Water Resources, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or plati- num, or of gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ores, or bullion, is not permitted. Newly mined gold is sold by the Ethiopian Mineral Resources Develop- ment Corporation to the National Bank. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the National Bank. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Fiji is the Fiji Dollar, the external value of which is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Fiji dollar and a weighted basket of currencies of Fiji's most impor- tant trading partners. The weighting formula is nor- mally reviewed every three years; the most recent revision was made in 1986. The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quota- tions for the U.S. dollar and other currencies in- cluded in the basket. On December 30, 1988, the midpoint exchange rate for the Fiji dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar was F$1.4049 per US$1. The Reserve Bank of Fiji provides official quotations only for the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Fiji formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from August 4, 1972. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Fiji, acting as agent of the Government; the Reserve Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments. Ex- cept with the specific permission of the Reserve Bank, residents of Fiji are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer all foreign currencies they re- ceive.1 The Ministry of Trade and Commerce is re- sponsible for the issue of import licenses, with the exception of those for gold, timber, rice, and dairy products. Import licenses for gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance, for timber by the Ministry of Forestry, and for rice and dairy products by the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. Export li- censes are issued by the Comptroller of Customs. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to ex- change control. Settlements with residents of any country may be made in Fiji currency through an External Account or in any foreign currency. 1 Under Fiji's Exchange Control Regulations, foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. 261 Nonresident Accounts A nonresident2 may maintain an External Ac- count in Fiji currency or a Foreign Currency Ac- count with an authorized bank; such accounts may be opened without the specific approval of the Re- serve Bank of Fiji. These accounts may be credited freely with interest payable on the account, with payments from other External Accounts, with the proceeds of sale of foreign currency or foreign coin by the account holder, and with Fiji currency notes which the account holder brought into Fiji or ac- quired by debit to an External Account or by the sale of foreign currency in the country during a tempo- rary visit. External Accounts also may be credited with payments by residents for which either a gen- eral or a specific authority has been given. External Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of Fiji, transfers to other External Accounts, pay- ments in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most goods are under open general license, although imports of a range of specified goods, including tea, steel bars, steel shelving and racking, tubes and pipes of iron or steel, cement, certain foods tuffs, alcoholic beverages, kerosene stoves, safety matches, seed potatoes, polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipes, PVC-insulated electric wires and wiring pin clips, polypropylene bags and ropes, clinker, polypropylene fabrics, knitted fab- rics, louver window frames, shirts, wood screws, and incense sticks and chemicals used as raw mate- rials in their manufacture, are subject to individual import licensing; licenses for some of these items are issued restrictively. A wide range of consumer goods is imported by national cooperative societies under a joint arrangement with six other Pacific Island countries. Import prohibitions are imposed on a few commodities from all sources, mainly for security, health, or public policy reasons. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers, who may allow 2A nonresident is a person or firm whose country of normal domicile or established residence is a country other than Fiji. As regards individuals, a resident of Fiji is a person who either has lived or intends to continue living in Fiji for at least three years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 162 FIJI payments for goods that have been imported under either a specific import license or an open general license. Authorized banks may allow advance pay- ments of up to F$2,000 for all imports, provided the goods are imported into Fiji within 90 days of the date the advance payment is made. Approval of the Reserve Bank of Fiji is required in cases where amounts exceed F$2,000. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are permitted either un- der a delegated authority to banks or, where large amounts or nondelegated payments are involved, upon application to the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Pay- ments may be made freely for all bona fide current transactions. Approval of the Reserve Bank of Fiji, however, is required in cases where amounts exceed the established limits. Residents of Fiji traveling to other countries may obtain from a bank, without reference to the Reserve Bank, a foreign currency travel allowance for a private or business visit up to the equivalent of F$2,000 a person a journey; amounts in excess of this limit are approved by the Reserve Bank of Fiji in case of genuine need sup- ported by documentary proof. There is no restric- tion on the number of trips a resident may make in any one year. Each traveler may take with him F$100 in Fiji currency and the equivalent of F$500 in other currencies, provided that these amounts are not in addition to travel allowances approved by a bank or the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Residents of Fiji are allowed to make cash gifts to nonresidents equivalent to F$200 a donor a year; additional funds are permitted in compassionate cases. Foreign-owned companies must apply to the Re- serve Bank for permission to transfer dividends abroad. The policy of the Reserve Bank is to allow the remittance of the current year's profits and one year's retained earnings. The transfer abroad of rent to nonresidents is subject to approval by the Re- serve Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required only for exports of rice, sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain lumber, scrap metals, certain animals, and a few other items. Irrespective of any export licensing require- ments, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of all goods with an f .o .b. value exceeding F$l,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Exporters are required to collect the proceeds of exports within six months of the date of exportation of the goods from Fiji and may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months without specific permission. All foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer within one month of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in Fiji notes or foreign currency notes. Residents are required to sell their foreign currency holdings to an authorized dealer within one month of return. Receipts of interest, dividends, and amortization are required to be surrendered on a half-yearly basis unless approval for reinvestment abroad was given by the Reserve Bank. Capital The inflow of capital in any form requires specific permission of the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Foreign in- vestment in Fiji normally is expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. Over- seas investments and other forms of capital trans- fers abroad have been temporarily suspended. The purchase of personal real property abroad is not permitted. Foreign-owned companies are permitted to re- patriate proceeds from the sale of assets up to the limit of F$l million a company a year. The transfer of inheritances and dowries due to nonresidents is permitted, as is the transfer of the proceeds from the sale of a house owned by a non- resident. The transfer of funds by emigrants on departure is limited to F$20,000 for married and F$13,000 for single applicants. Thereafter, the emi- grant is allowed an automatic transfer of F$3,000 a month commencing three months after emigration until the amount cleared by the Inland Revenue Department has been fully transferred. Authority is delegated to banks operating in Fiji to approve transactions involving F$50,000 or more arising from (1) the conversion of foreign currency into Fiji currency, whether for credit to a resident account or to an External Account; and (2) the cred- iting of an External Account with Fiji currency ema- nating from another External Account (including Fiji currency accounts of overseas banks). The banks must send confirmation of such inflows to the Reserve Bank; they must also have the approval of the Bank before granting any loans in excess of F$10,000 to a company or branch in Fiji (other than a bank) that is controlled directly or indirectly by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI 263 persons resident outside Fiji or by individuals des- ignated as nonresidents; however, the banks do not need such approval to lend up to F$l 0,000 to indi- vidual nonresident customers, who must repay such loans prior to their departure from Fiji. The banks may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Residents require permission from the Reserve Bank of Fiji before they may borrow foreign currency in Fiji or abroad. The facility for residents to purchase foreign cur- rency up to a maximum of F$5,000 a family a year to acquire foreign currency securities has been sus- pended. The purchase of personal real property outside Fiji is not permitted. Special tax incentives are granted for investments in the tourism industry, and an investment allowance similar to that for the hotel industry is provided for large outlay invest- ment projects supportive of the tourist industry. Portfolio investment in Fiji by nonresidents requires approval by the Reserve Bank; the proceeds of the sale or realization of such investment may be re- patriated. Banks require exchange control permis- sion to borrow abroad; they may accept deposits from nonresidents. Prepayment of external borrow- ing is prohibited and all repayments must be in conformity with the schedule in the loan contract. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coin in Fiji but not gold bullion. The export of gold coin, except numismatic coins and collectors' pieces, requires the specific permission of the Re- serve Bank of Fiji. Gold imports from all sources, other than imports of gold coin, require a specific import license issued by the Ministry of Finance; these are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coin is free of customs duty but is subject to a fiscal tax of 10 percent; gold bullion is exempt from customs duty but is subject to a fiscal tax of 7.5 percent. Gold jewelry is subject to customs duty at the rate of 7.5 percent and to a fiscal duty of 25 percent but does not require any license when valued at less than F$200; samples of gold and gold jewelry sent by foreign manufacturers require im- port licenses if over F$200 in value. Exports of gold jewelry are free of export duty but they require licenses if their value exceeds F$l,000. Exports of gold bullion are subject to an export duty of 2 percent. All newly mined gold is refined in Australia and sold at free market prices. Commem- orative gold coins of F$100, F$200, and F$250 have been issued; these are legal tender but do not nor- mally circulate. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments April 1. Authorized banks were permitted to ap- prove advance import payments of up to F$2,000, provided that the goods are imported into Fiji within 90 days of the date of advance payments. Advance import payments exceeding F$2,000 con- tinue to require Reserve Bank approval. Payments for Invisibles July 8. The transfer abroad of rent to nonresidents was made subject to approval by the Reserve Bank. December 13. Authorized banks were permitted to approve travel allowances up to F$2,000 a person a journey and gift remittances of F$200 a person a year. December 13. One year's retained earnings were permitted to be remitted abroad. Capital September 1. The control on transfers of emigrant funds was liberalized as follows: (1) the initial emi- gration allowance was increased to F$20,000 for married and to F$13,000 for single applicants; (2) thereafter, the emigrant is allowed to transfer F$3,000 a month commencing three months after emigration until the amount cleared by the Inland Revenue Department has been fully transferred. December 13. Foreign-owned companies were al- lowed to repatriate proceeds from the sale of assets up to the limit of F$l million a company a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Finland is the Finnish Markka. The external value of the markka is defined in terms of an index reflecting a weighted average of the exchange rates of the convertible currencies most important for Finland's foreign trade. These are defined as the convertible currencies of countries that have accounted for not less than 1 percent of Finland's commodity imports and exports in each of the preceding three calendar years. The value of the exchange rate index is maintained by the Suomen Pankki (Bank of Finland) within a margin estab- lished by the Council of State; during January 1984- November 1988, the range was 101.3-106.0, and since December 1988 the range has been 100.5- 106.8 (1982 = 100). The index weights are adjusted quarterly and based on the average trade shares for the past two years; the base year is changed an- nually. The Suomen Pankki calculates and pub- lishes the currency index on a daily basis. Daily (noon) buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, are quoted by the Suo- men Pankki. On December 30,1988, the rates were Fmk 4.161 and Fmk 4.177 per US$1, respectively. Buying and selling rates for the clearing ruble are based on the rates of the State Bank of the U.S.S.R. for the U.S. dollar against the ruble. Quotations for other currencies are based on market cross rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with residents, and with nonresident banks in U.S. dollars and other convertible currencies. Nonbanks may obtain forward cover for authorized transac- tions only. Forward premiums and discounts quoted by authorized banks reflect interest rate dif- ferentials in the countries of various currencies. The Suomen Pankki does not provide forward cover for commercial banks. It also does not quote forward ruble rates. Finland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 25, 1979. Administration of Control The Suomen Pankki operates the exchange con- trol system, delegating authority in practice to the authorized banks (mainly commercial banks). Im- port and export licensing is administered by the Export and Import Permits Office (a unit subordi- nate to the Ministry of Trade and Industry), which is headed by a board composed of government offi- cials, including a representative of the Suomen Pankki. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the convertible cur- rency countries and the bilateral countries.1 Settle- ments with the bilateral countries must be made in the currency of the agreement (the clearing ruble for the U.S.S.R., the clearing Finnish markka for Bul- garia and the German Democratic Republic). Settle- ments with the convertible currency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident accounts: Convertible Accounts and Nonresident Markka Accounts.2 1 Finland maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Po- land, and the U.S.S.R. Transactions with Czechoslovakia and Poland have, however, been settled in freely convertible U.S. dollars since 1970 under agreements concluded for each year. Under an agreement concluded between Finland and Czechoslo- vakia in August 1985, the practice whereby transactions are settled in convertible currencies was extended for three years from the beginning of 1986; the payments arrangement is hence- forth to be renewed automatically for three years, unless other- wise agreed. Under an agreement concluded between Finland and Poland in December 1985 and renewed for another year in December 1986 and in December 1987, payments may be effected in Finnish markkaa as well as in U.S. dollars. In January 1987, Finland and the U.S.S.R. signed a credit agreement under which a maximum of rub 285 million was transferred from the clearing account between the two countries to a special interest-bearing account denominated in clearing rubles. This special account is protected by an exchange rate guarantee. The balance in the special account is to be repaid by the U.S.S.R. by the end of 1991, mainly in the form of shipments of goods paid for through the clearing account. On September 9, 1988, Finland and the U.S.S.R. concluded an agreement to use convertible currencies to settle the trade imbalance between the two countries. The maximum imbalance in the clearing account is to be limited to rub 200 million beginning January 1, 1990, and the imbalance exceeding this limit will be settled quarterly in convertible cur- rencies; the imbalance exceeding rub 100 million will earn inter- est at an international money market rate. 2On January 1, 1986, previous "Restricted Accounts" were abolished, with the Suomen Pankki reserving the power to re- introduce them in case of need. 164 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 165 Convertible Accounts are held by nonresidents in any convertible currency, including Finnish mark- kaa. These accounts may be credited by an autho- rized bank with amounts transferred from other Convertible Accounts, with Finnish currency re- ceived directly from a foreign bank or imported into Finland, with amounts which the bank would be authorized to transfer abroad, with amounts of con- vertible currency received by the bank, and with interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited freely and balances may be transferred abroad to any country. Nonresident Markka Accounts comprise all other nonresident accounts. They are held in markkaa and are intended primarily for payments of a capital nature. The transfer abroad of funds in a Nonresi- dent Markka Account requires the special permis- sion of the Suomen Pankki in most cases. A mone- tary institution may credit a Nonresident Markka Account with the purchase price of assets other than foreign securities bought from the holder by a resident, with funds received as an inheritance, and with redemption payments and interest on matured bonds and debentures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange or on the authorized banks' OTC markets. These accounts may also be credited with rent on property owned in Finland by the holder of the account, with proceeds from other assets belonging to the holder of the account and managed by the monetary institution with which the account is held, with the amount of a loan received from a resident in a permissible manner, and with interest accrued on funds held in the account. Nonresident Markka Accounts may be debited freely for noncommercial current expenses in Fin- land of and for the account of the holder, and funds in these accounts may be used for capital payments when the transaction does not require authorization or is authorized for transferable funds. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported free of license from the multilateral countries, provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in those coun- tries. However, certain goods3 may be imported from the multilateral area under a global quota sys- tem, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of quotas for specified commodity groups. With the exception of the commodities to which reference was made in the preceding paragraph, import licenses are not required for most com- modities originating in and purchased from the U.S.S.R., or originating in and purchased from the five countries with which agreements on the re- ciprocal removal of obstacles to trade have been concluded (Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, and Poland). All imports of commodities originating in countries or areas not classified4 in either the multilateral area or the bilateral area require individual licenses. The State Granary is the main agency for the import of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products of these grains for human consumption, but individual im- porters may also import these commodities under license. There is a state monopoly for imports of alcoholic beverages. Foreign exchange is granted freely by authorized banks for all imports for which licenses are granted, on presentation of an application form, the import license (when required for imports from countries with nonconvertible currencies), and the original commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. Payment for imports must be made within six months after the date of customs clearance of the goods; if the import pay- ment is made to the seller through foreign financing credits arranged by an authorized Finnish bank, the credit period may not exceed six months without a special permit. Payments for Invisibles Payments in respect of invisible transactions are not restricted. The authorized banks have general permission to effect payments for most invisibles. A Finnish resident traveling abroad may pur- chase from commercial banks foreign exchange without a limit on the basis of a breakdown of costs drawn up by the purchaser; the maximum limit is Fmk 10,000 a trip if a cost breakdown is not provided. Nonresident travelers may take out of the country Fmk 10,000 a trip in Finnish or foreign bank notes and coin and any amount in Finnish or for- eign bank notes and coin declared upon entry; resi- dent travelers may take out of the country foreign or domestic currency, or any combination of these, up to Fmk 10,000, without the export certificate for means of payment. Agricultural commodities, fish, fuels and other petroleum products, and unwrought gold and silver. 4Currently/ Taiwan Province of China and the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 166 FINLAND Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to repatriate foreign ex- change proceeds within eight days of collection, which may then be held in a domestic foreign cur- rency account with an authorized bank in Finland or be converted into domestic currency. Export li- censes are required only for exports of scrap metal. Sales of arms are strictly controlled. Exports to the U.S.S.R., which is outside the scope of agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade, are allocated by means of bilateral trade arrangements. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from current invisibles must be repatriated within eight days of collection. The funds may be held in a domestic foreign cur- rency account in Finland. Any unused foreign bank notes and traveler's checks must be repatriated, but these are exempt from the repatriation requirement up to Fmk 10,000 for assets held in Finland. The import of domestic and foreign currency and coin is unrestricted. Capital External borrowing by Finnish residents, par- ticularly in the form of short-term or long-term fi- nancial credits, including bond issues abroad, re- quires the specific approval of the Suomen Pankki, which exercises surveillance over the amount of capital inflows. The Suomen Pankki has exempted from regulation foreign credits with at least a five- year maturity that have been raised by companies. The authorized banks and certain other financial institutions are entitled to act as intermediaries be- tween such credits and their corporate customers. Early repayments require the permission of the Suo- men Pankki. Lending to nonresidents by nonbanks is generally restricted to export credits. Permission is not required for customary export credits up to six months; suppliers' credits over three months to resi- dents of Bulgaria, the German Democratic Re- public, and the U.S.S.R. are, however, subject to special permit by the Suomen Pankki. International banking activities of Finnish authorized banks are free of regulations, but are subject to certain super- visory reporting requirements. Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Suomen Pankki. Autho- rization is granted for residents of Finland to invest in foreign listed securities, to place funds in ac- counts with foreign monetary institutions, or to leave foreign claims unrepatriated up to a cumula- tive total of the equivalent of Fmk 300,000 a person. Outward direct investments are freely permitted for nonfinancial companies without applying to the Suomen Pankki. Inheritances are transferred to the beneficiaries after verification. Persons who have resided outside Finland during the previous calen- dar year and continue to do so are allowed to trans- fer abroad their net assets in Finland in one lump sum, subject to the prior approval of the Suomen Pankki. Nonresidents may purchase Finnish securities only if they are "free shares" or related options quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange or on the authorized banks' OTC market in Finland through an authorized bank or a securities agent against convertible currencies, or by debiting a Convertible Account. A nonresident purchaser of Finnish shares is permitted to sell them through an autho- rized bank or a securities agent and to transfer abroad the net proceeds of the sale in a convertible currency. The acquisition of shares quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange or on the authorized banks' OTC markets in Finland with funds from Nonresident Markka Accounts is also permitted au- tomatically if they are acquired by an authorized bank or a securities agent. Other transactions in securities require approval in most cases. Inward direct investments require the approval of the Council of State if they involve purchases of property and real estate; other inward direct invest- ments are approved by the Ministry of Trade and Industry, and such approval is usually granted, with the exception of investments in the forest and mining industries and in certain traditionally regu- lated activities. The transfer of direct investment capital requires authorization by the Suomen Pan- kki. Such authorization is granted if the underlying investment has been approved by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Repatriation of direct invest- ment is subject to the verification of the Suomen Pankki. Outward transfers of capital by residents require individual approval by the Suomen Pankki. Proceeds from the sale of securities and real prop- erty must be repatriated under the general rule of repatriation. Subject to certain regulations, autho- rized banks, securities agents, and insurance and other companies have permission to purchase for- eign and Finnish securities issued abroad. Pur- chases of real estate abroad are authorized up to a limit of Fmk 1 million a person without the special permit of the Suomen Pankki. The upper limit on shares entitling part-time use of real estate abroad is Fmk 1 million. The Suomen Pankki may grant per- mission for acquisition of a dwelling at a price ex- ceeding Fmk 1 million. Finnish emigrants are permitted to transfer abroad assets owned prior to their departure. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 167 Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form in Finland. Imports of unwrought gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Export and Import Permits Office; such li- censes are granted liberally. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement November 30. The fluctuation range of the currency index was widened to 100.5-106.8 (1982 = 100). Capital August 1. The Suomen Pankki relaxed restrictions on direct investment, on purchases of foreign se- curities, and on the acquisition of real property and dwellings, by raising the ceiling to Fmk 0.3 million. The Suomen Pankki also announced that it would consider applications for exceptions applicable to the ceilings for enterprises, based on their size or their foreign business. In addition, direct foreign investment by nonfinancial enterprises will no longer require special permission from the Suomen Pankki. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the Franc. France par- ticipates with Belgium, Denmark, the Federal Re- public of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and interven- tion mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, France maintains the spot exchange rates between the franc and the currencies of the other participants within margins of plus 2.2753 percent or minus 2.2247 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 per- cent) against the cross rates based on the cen- tral rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of France (the Central Bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in un- limited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1988, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Francs Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire 16.631 89.925 343.05 304.44 918.90 0.4941 15.899 85.970 327.92 291.04 878.50 0.4383 The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func- tioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the inter- vention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Buying and selling rates for 20 currencies are quoted.daily on the basis of market rates.1 On De- cember 29,1988, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were F 6.0875 and F 6.0995, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, Finnish markkaa, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dol- lars, and zaires. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the currencies of the overseas territories and to the currencies of the countries that are linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account2 as follows: (1) In the overseas territories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands, the currency used is the CFP franc, which has a fixed parity with the franc of CFPF1 = F 0.055. (2) Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the currencies of the Operations Account coun- tries (see footnote 2). These rates are CFAF 1 = F 0.02 for the CFA franc, which circulates in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Re- public, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. Registered banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Registered banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign mar- kets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may pur- chase foreign exchange forward in respect of spec- ified transactions. Firms engaged in international trade may purchase foreign exchange forward with- out restriction. Forward cover in foreign currency, including the ECU, for import payments is free. Forward cover may be obtained freely for future outlays for direct investment and debt-service obli- gations, and there is no limit on the maturity of contract. Forward sales of foreign currency are not restricted. France formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations apply in all ter- ritories of the French Republic, that is, in conti- nental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments (Guadeloupe, Martinique, French Guiana, and Re- union), Mayotte, St. Pierre and Miquelon, and the three Overseas Territories (Wallis and Futuna Is- lands, New Caledonia, and French Polynesia). No exchange control is applied in relation to Monaco or 2Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 168 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 169 the Operations Account countries (see footnote 2); all payments between France and these countries are free of restriction on the part of France and take place at fixed exchange rates. All other countries are considered foreign countries for exchange control purposes; payments between France and foreign countries may be subject to exchange regulations. The exchange control regulations include controls over inward direct investment on the basis of Decree No. 68-1021 of November 24, 1968. This decree is applicable to financial relations with all countries except those belonging to the French Franc Zone (i.e., Operations Account countries). The majority of exchange operations are free f rom any prior au- thorization; these include direct investments abroad (except in South Afr ica) and direct investment f rom the European Communities (EC) countries, which are nevertheless submitted to prior notification. Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and the Budget is the coordinat- ing agency for financial relations with foreign coun- tries. It is responsible for exchange control and all matters relating to inward and outward direct in- vestment and to borrowing abroad, unless they re- late to real estate companies, in which case the Bank of France screens applications. The Directorate of the Treasury also evaluates the balance of pay- ments, together with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. Certain ex- change control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France and to the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes and, in the Overseas Departments and Territories, to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The Directorate of Insurance of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and the Budget has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, etc. The execution of all transfers has been delegated to registered banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls, within the framework of commercial policy directives given by the Directorate of For- eign Economic Relations (DREE); the Directorate- General also issues import and export licenses and is responsible for any litigation relating to the exchange regulations. Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the appro- priate ministry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of In- dustry has certain responsibilities in respect of li- censing contracts and contracts relating to technical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Operations Account coun- tries may be made in francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury.3 Settle- ments with all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries or through non- resident Foreign Accounts in Francs. Importers and exporters are free to invoice in any currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident account in francs may be freely opened by a registered bank for nonresidents, in- cluding French nationals (other than officials) who are residing abroad. All overdrafts and advances on non-resident-held f ranc accounts are subject to gen- eral or specific permission. Nonresident accounts may be operated freely. If francs accruing to a nonresident are not trans- ferable, or are not immediately transferable, they may be credited to a Suspense Account in Francs in the name of the beneficiary. Emigrants of foreign or French nationality may take out all of their assets upon departure. In addition, nonresidents may hold foreign currency accounts with French and foreign-owned banks. Imports and Import Payments Goods originating in and shipped f rom other countries that are accorded privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions (see section on Ex- change Control Territory, above) are generally ad- mitted free of quantitative restrictions and individ- ual licenses. Imports of goods that originate in other countries and are not covered by French import liberalization require individual licenses. Some im- ports f rom non-EC countries are subject to mini- mum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Certain imports require certificates of origin. For import control purposes, countries other than those that are accorded privileged treatment are divided into four groups according to the extent of import liberalization: (1) the former Organization for European Economic Cooperation (OEEC) coun- tries, their dependent territories and certain former dependent territories, Andorra, Canada, Egypt, 3Comprising the institutes of issue of the Operations Account countries and the Overseas Ins t i tu te of Issue (for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Mayotte, and Wallis and Fu tuna Islands). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 170 FRANCE Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Lib- eria, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, United States, Western Samoa, and Yugoslavia; (2) some specified countries;4 (3) the Eastern European countries (Al- bania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R.), People's Republic of China, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Mongolia; and (4) German Democratic Republic. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrange- ments applicable to one country may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the same degree of liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quantitative restric- tions, but restrictions are applied to a number of agricultural and electronic products; there is rela- tively little difference between the lists of goods that may be imported freely from d ifferent countries in this group. Imports of certain industrial products from countries in group (2) are restricted, and re- strictions are applied to these and to certain addi- tional industrial products from group (3) countries. For some commodities, global quotas are allocated annually (petroleum and petroleum products) or semiannually and apply to all countries (other than those that have bilaterally negotiated quotas or re- ceive privileged treatment). Imports from all coun- tries of certain agricultural items and certain raw materials are free of quantitative restrictions. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; com- mon EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade con- trols, but do require a customs document that con- stitutes the customs declaration. For some liber- alized imports, an administrative visa issued by the Central Customs Administration or by the appro- priate ministry is required on an import declaration. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) require such administra- tive visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. Other imports generally require individual im- port licenses. These are granted up to quotas deter- 4Afghan is tan, Argentina, Aus tra l ia, Bhu tan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indo- nesia, Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Republic of Korea, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, N icaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen Arab Republic, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. mined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and are applicable to spec- ified countries or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a defi- nite period. Imports of some products must pass through designated customs offices. Documents ac- companying goods passing through customs must be written in or translated into French. Quantitative import restrictions consist of EC- wide restrictions and national restrictions. The for- mer include bilaterally agreed restrictions on textile imports under the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and voluntary export restraints on a number of agri- cultural and industrial products negotiated at the EC level. EC-wide restrictions are enforced through import licensing subject to prior authorization. Na- tional restrictions on imports from third countries that are in free circulation within the EC are en- forced through temporary import restrictions au- thorized by the EC Commission under Article 115 of the EEC Treaty. In cases where the restrictions are not officially recognized by the EC (e.g., industry- to-industry understandings that do not directly in- volve member governments), import restrictions are enforced through national import licensing or stan- dards and certification procedures. Automatic li- censing is granted for imports that are under sur- veillance at either the EC or national level. Payments for imports from foreign countries must be made by credit to a Foreign Account in Francs or with foreign currency purchased in the French exchange market. Payments may be made by transfer through a registered bank, by credit card, by check, or by bank notes. The amounts that may be transferred through postal channels are not sub- ject to limitation, but, in practice, the Postal Admin- istration does not make import payments valued at over F 250,000. Registered banks may without special authoriza- tion permit advance payments to be made that are provided for in the commercial contract. There is no restriction on the use of suppliers' credits. Im- porters, exporters, and international trading houses may freely open accounts in foreign currencies in France with registered banks or abroad without limit on the credit balance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles to foreign coun- tries are controlled but are not restricted as to amount. If jus t ify ing documents are presented and certain exchange control requirements are met, reg- istered banks are permitted to approve applications for payments for all categories of current invisibles ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 171 without any limitation. Any resident may make re- mittances abroad up to the equivalent of F 50,000 a transaction, provided that the transfers do not serve as a means of accumulating funds abroad. Outward remittances for family support abroad and transfers of donations to nonresidents are freely permitted. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, certain transactions between persons or f irms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include certain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. There are no limits on expenditures for travel abroad. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign or domestic bank notes resident and non- resident travelers may take out, but amoun ts ex- ceeding F 50,000 and its equivalent must be de- clared to customs upon departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may be exported only under a special license. Some other exports also require individual licenses, but if the total value does not exceed F 1,000 (F 5,000 for art objects or collectors' items), these exports may be permitted w i thout any formality, subject to certain exceptions. Exports to foreign countries are not subject to any exchange control, except when they are made by an occasional exporter, in which case payment must be received through the exchange market. The re- patriation of export proceeds5 and, where appropri- ate, the surrender by sale in the exchange market of proceeds f rom exports to foreign countries are re- quired not later than three months f rom the date of receipt. Exporters are allowed forward coverage of an unlimited period, and may hold foreign currency accounts at home and abroad without limit on the credit balance. Registered banks may freely extend foreign currency advances to exporters; such ad- vances and their repayment may be settled by the receipts of the corresponding exports. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports, even when paid for in francs, and are ex- empt from taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with Mo- naco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. As in the case of proceeds of occasional exporters, all amounts due f rom residents of other 5Repatriation may take place either by collection of foreign currency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets (with the exception of income from work in border areas) must be repatriated by occasional exporters of ser- vices and, where appropriate, surrendered within three months f rom the due date. With minor excep- tions for certain types of transactions, services per- formed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin (except gold coin) in francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any for- eign currency; amounts exceeding F 50,000, how- ever, must be declared to customs upon arrival. The exchange of bank notes issued by Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Resident travelers must sell in the ex- change market any foreign bank notes or traveler's checks in excess of F 50,000 within three months of entry. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; purchases of French and foreign securities abroad and the corresponding outward t rans fe rs of resident-owned capital are free; capital receipts f rom foreign countries are permitted freely, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered by sale in the exchange market by resi- dents who do not have a professional activity in exporting, importing, or international trading (but see below for special controls over borrowing abroad and over inward direct investment). Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. The t ran s fer abroad of non-resident-owned funds, including the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by nonresidents may be exported, provided that they have been deposited with a registered bank in a foreign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobilieres); French securities held under a foreign dossier can also be sold in France, and the sales proceeds can be transferred abroad. Foreign securities held in France by a nonresident must be deposited with a registered bank; French securities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but cannot be dealt with or exported unless they have been depos- ited. Foreign securities held in France by residents must be deposited with a qualified bank or broker. Residents may hold French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a French registered bank or broker. The export for the account of resi- dents of French securities held in France is pro- hibited, except when they are to be sold abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 172 FRANCE Subject to compliance with the special regulations concerning inward and outward direct investment, residents may purchase abroad French and foreign securities on stock exchanges and securities that are not quoted on a recognized stock exchange through registered banks. French and foreign securities may be held or sold abroad, but they may also be im- ported and then either held or sold on a French stock exchange. Correspondingly, nonresidents holding French or foreign securities abroad (whether ac- quired before November 24, 1968 or later) may im- port them into France through a registered bank and hold them in a foreign dossier or sell them on a French stock exchange. The exchange control regulations include controls over inward direct investment on the basis of Decree No. 68-1021 of November 24, 1968. This decree ap- plies to financial relations with all countries except those belonging to the French Franc Zone (i.e., Op- eration Account countries). As of June 1, 1988, resi- dents may freely contract foreign loans in foreign currencies and in French francs; such borrowings in French francs exceeding F 50 million an operation were previously subject to prior authorization. Cer- tain exchange operations are free f rom any prior authorization; these include direct investments coming from EC countries, which are only subject to prior notification. As of September 24,1988, prior declaration and authorization are no longer required for direct investments by residents of EC and non- EC countries, except in cases where acquisition of existing French firms is involved. Foreign direct investments in France require prior declaration to the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and the Budget. Direct investments are defined as investments leading to control of a company or en- terprise. Any participation exceeding 20 percent of the capital is considered as direct investment. In the case of firms whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange, this 20 percent threshhold applies only to each individual participation and not to the total of foreign participations. To determine whether a company is foreign controlled, the Treasury may also take into account any special relationships re- sulting from such factors as stock options, loans, patents and licenses, and commercial contracts. Foreign companies controlled by EC residents are free to establish a subsidiary and to take over any participation in the equity capital of a French com- pany, within one month following the declaration in the case of investments not exceeding F 10 million and within two months of declaration in the case of investments exceeding F 10 million. Foreign com- panies controlled by other nonresidents may take over any participation under F10 million in a French company within one month following the declara- tion, unless the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and the Budget formally notifies the companies of its decision to postpone the operation; such a decision is highly exceptional. Whatever the nationality of a nonresident investor, the Treasury is, however, en- titled to issue a finding within one month to forbid such an establishment or participation, should it be deemed to jeopardize public health, order, security, or defense. Takeovers of French companies by non- EC residents amounting to more than F 10 million, as well as changes in a shareholder's ownership percentage of any foreign-controlled corporation, require an authorization. Exemptions f rom declara- tion or approval requirements are granted for in- creases of equity capital of a subsidiary. The liquidation proceeds of foreign direct invest- ment in France may be freely transferred abroad; the liquidation itself must be reported to the Minis- try within 20 days of its occurrence. Direct foreign investments by residents are not restricted, except those located in South Africa, but must be reported to the Ministry of Economy within 20 days if they exceed F 5 million. The liquidation of direct in- vestments abroad is free f rom any prior applica- tion, provided that the corresponding funds are re- ported to the Ministry of Economy if they exceed F 5 million. Foreign issues on the French capital market, ex- cept issues originating from EC countries, are sub- ject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Econ- omy, Finance, and the Budget. The requirement is applicable also to the Operations Account coun- tries. Exempt f rom authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the French Government, and (2) shares similar to securities that are already of- ficially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose nor- mal residence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, is unre- stricted. Residents who do not have a professional activity in exporting, importing, or international trading are required to expatriate and surrender such loans. Borrowing abroad in French francs must be repatriated. The application of the controls over direct investment and borrowing is delegated to the Bank of France insofar as they relate to French firms that are mainly engaged in real estate business. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange con- trol authorization by the Bank of France within the framework of directives issued by the Treasury. Since the imposition of exchange control in 1968, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 173 registered banks have been virtually free to lend foreign currency to nonresidents, subject to certain reservations in respect of the granting of guarantees and varying limitations on their external position, and to residents. Lending to nonresidents in francs is free if financed by funds deposited by non- residents.6 Registered banks' foreign currency as- sets and their overall liabilities in francs and foreign currency to nonresidents are free from limitation. Nonresidents may freely purchase French short- term securities, including treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private drafts. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire regularly, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there prior to November 25, 1968. There is a free gold market for bars and coin in Paris, to which residents and nonresidents have free access and in which normally no official intervention takes place. Imports and exports of "monetary" gold (defined as gold having a fineness or a weight that is recog- nized in the gold market) into or from the territory of continental France are now governed by the regula- tions applying to ordinary goods. Movements of industrial gold are subject to a simple declaration, as are imports and exports of manufactured articles 6A11 restrictions on lending in French francs to nonresidents were abolished, effective March 9, 1989. containing a minor quantity of gold, such as gold- filled and gold-plated articles. Collectors' items of gold and gold antiques are subject to specific regulations. Most gold coins are traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of bars and coin are not subject to value-added tax. Imports of monetary gold, except gold imported by the Bank of France, are subject to customs duty and value- added tax. Domestic transactions in gold and gold coin are subject to capital gains tax. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of antidumping duties, countervailing charges, and import sur- veillance measures introduced or eliminated by the European Economic Community during 1988, page 561.) Capital June 1. Domestic enterprises were permitted to operate foreign currency accounts in France or abroad in foreign exchange or French francs with- out any restriction; the restriction on borrowing abroad in excess of F 50 million was abolished. September 24. Prior authorization was no longer required for direct investments by residents of non- EC countries, except in cases where acquisition of existing French firms is involved. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Gabon is the CFA Franc,l which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 =± F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BE AC and commercial banks at present take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market, and include a commission. Commissions are charged at the rate of 0.25 per mill on transfers made by the banks for their own ac- counts, and 0.225 per mill on all private capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury, national accounting offices, national and international public agencies, and private entities granted exemption by the Ministry of Finance, Bud- get, and Participations because of the nature of their activities. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Ter- ritories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Trea- sury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered for- eign countries. Administration of Control The Directorate of Financial Institutions in the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations su- pervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, Budget, and Participations, who has partly dele- gated his approval authority for current payments 1PThe CFA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1' Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Equatorial Guinea. to the authorized banks and that with respect to the external position of the banks to the BEAC. All ex- change transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized inter- mediaries—that is, the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import and export authoriza- tions, where necessary, are issued by the Directo- rate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency Since Gabon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mon- aco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Set- tlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresi- dent accounts of BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments In general, imports from member countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are free of formalities; imports of refined vegetable oil from these countries require prior ap- proval. All imports from countries outside the UDEAC are subject to an authorization to import (when the value is more than CFAF 500,000). All imports, of any origin, are subject to authorization. For perishables and spare parts, an anticipatory authorization is given to simplify administrative procedures. Imports from countries outside the UDEAC that are similar to, and compete with, do- mestic products are subject to licensing, but, with a 174 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 175 few exceptions2 established by Ministerial Order, import authorizations are granted liberally in prac- tice. Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. Imports of refined vegetable oil are suspended except when they originate from mem- ber countries of the UDEAC. All imports of com- mercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in Gabon. All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Authorizations duly endorsed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations (Directorate of Financial Institu- tions) entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, provided that the shipping docu- ments are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval, which is granted when the appropriate documents are submitted. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invis- ibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income ac- cruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip (CFAF 100,000 for children under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Gabon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign coun- tries, there is a special allocation equivalent to CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 500,000 a trip. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers to for- eign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BEAC bank notes; the amount taken out is not deducted from the travel allocation. Trav- elers to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may not export CFA or French bank notes in excess of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 (CFAF 100,000 for children under 10 years) for tourist travel; for business travel the 2Currently totaling about 30 items, including cement, ham, mineral water, plastic goods, sugar, batteries, and refined vegeta- ble oil. amount of such bank notes that may be carried out is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day and CFAF 500,000 a trip. Transfers may be effected with- out limit through the banking or postal systems. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require authorization, irrespective of des- tination. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds nor- mally must be received within 150 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and non- resident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; cap- ital transfers to all other countries require the ap- proval of the Directorate of Financial Institutions and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign se- curities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 176 GABON transactions themselves, not to payments or re- ceipts. With the exception of controls over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Gabon, the con- trol measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations unless they take the form of a capital increase result- ing from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also must be declared to the Ministry unless the opera- tion involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a di- rect investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Gabon4 must be declared to the Ministry unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; within two months from receipt of the declaration, the Ministry may request the postponement of the proj- ect. The full or partial liquidation of direct invest- ments in Gabon must also be declared to the Minis- try unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in Gabon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct invest- ments, whether these are Gabonese investments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the Ministry within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon requires prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Ex- empt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabonese Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance, Bud- get, and Participations. The following are, however, Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. including those made by companies in Gabon that are di- rectly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constitut- ing a direct investment abroad for which prior ap- proval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transac- tions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Financial Institutions within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Par- ticipations. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by regis- tered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 mil- lion for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Financial Institutions within 20 days of the operation, except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of December 4,1961, as amended on March 23,1967 and July 9,1971, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether do- mestic or foreign, is granted, under certain condi- tions, reduced duties and taxes on specified im- ports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. A minimum of 10 percent state participation is required for any enterprise located in Gabon. The Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. In addition to fiscal priv- ileges, eligible companies may receive protection against foreign competition and may be given pri- ority in the allocation of imports, public credit, and government contracts. A Presidential Decree of April 11, 1975 provides that foreign companies in- vesting in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nationals. Non-Gabonese firms or indi- viduals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON 177 Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and Participations. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles). The export of gold is the monopoly of the Societe Gabonaise de Re- cherches et d'Exploitation Minieres (SOGAREM). Im- ports of gold exempted from licensing and autho- rization requirements are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of The Gambia is the Gambian Dalasi. On January 20,1986, the previous system of a fixed peg to the pound sterling was abolished, and a floating exchange rate system was introduced. Commercial banks are free to transact either among themselves or with customers at exchange rates agreed on by the parties to these transactions. The Central Bank of The Gambia (CBG) conducts a fix- ing session with the participation of the commercial banks to set the exchange rate to value official for- eign exchange transactions during the following week. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On December 31,1988, the midpoint exchange rate of the dalasi in the inter- bank market was D 6.90 per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Ministry of Finance and Trade. The day-to-day ad- ministration of exchange control is carried out by the CBG. The commercial banks, which have been ap- pointed as authorized dealers, may authorize sales of foreign currencies for all current transactions. The Ministry of Finance and Trade is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments incurred before the introduction of the floating exchange system. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries may be made and received in dalasis or pounds sterling or in any other convertible currency from nonresident sources. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO) (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo), and Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. External Accounts Accounts denominated in dalasis held by resi- dents of other countries are designated external accounts. Such accounts may be opened without reference to the CBG when commercial banks are satisfied that the account holders' source of funds is from abroad in convertible foreign currency. Desig- nated external accounts may be credited with pay- ments from residents of other countries, with trans- fers from other external accounts, and with the pro- ceeds of sales through the banking system of other convertible currencies. They may be debited for any payment to residents of other countries, for trans- fers to other external accounts, and for the purchase of other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Importation of certain specified goods is pro- hibited from all sources for social, health, or se- curity reasons. All other imports are freely permit- ted under open general licenses. Commercial banks are free to make payments for all imports, subject to evidence of shipment. Ad- vance payments in respect of imports may be made freely, provided that commercial banks are satisfied with the bona fide nature of such transactions. Pay- ments for imports may be made in dalasis or pounds sterling to an External Account or in any convertible currency. Effective July 1,1988, all merchandise imports are subject to a national sales tax of 10 percent (which replaced the previous import tax of 6 percent) of the c . i .f. value; imports by the Government, diplomatic missions, and charitable organizations are ex- empted from this tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions are not restricted, provided that commercial banks are satisfied with documentary evidence that the payment is due. Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange for travel purposes and for mak- ing interest and profit remittances without prior approval. A traveler leaving The Gambia may take out D 75 in Gambian currency notes. Visitors to The Gambia do not have to declare their foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of forestry products is subject to prior authorization by the Forestry Department. The ex- port of all other goods can generally be made with- out individual licenses, if settlement is made in accordance with procedures laid down by the CBG. Export proceeds must be received through a com- mercial bank within six months from the date of 178 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA 179 exportation in a convertible foreign currency or through transfers from a designated external ac- count. The Gambia Produce Marketing Board (GPMB) is the authorized exporter of groundnut products, oil, palm kernels, cotton, and all deriva- tives of cotton. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to commercial banks. There is no restriction on the import of foreign currency notes, but the importation of Gambian currency notes is prohibited. Capital Inward transfers of capital for the purpose of di- rect equity investment are not restricted, but must be reported to the CBG. Prior approval of the CBG is required in order for residents to accept loans in foreign currency from any source. Overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of diplomatic and international mis- sions in The Gambia up to reasonable amounts. Loans and advances by commercial banks to non- resident companies are subject to the authorization of the CBG. Foreign exchange working balances held by the commercial banks are subject to limits set by the CBG; amounts held in excess of these limits must be sold in the interbank market or of- fered to the CBG. These limits must be observed on a daily basis, and the amount held must be reported monthly to the CBG. In addition, two parastatals (the GPMB and The Gambia Telecommunication Company) are permitted temporarily to maintain limited working balances in foreign exchange. The limits must be observed on a weekly basis, and the amounts held must be reported monthly to the CBG. Any amount in excess of the limit must be surrendered to a commercial bank in The Gambia. Gold The import of gold coin and bullion requires the approval of the CBG. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments July 1. All merchandise imports became subject to a national sales tax of 10 percent (which replaced the previous import tax of 6 percent) of the c.i.f. value; imports by the Government, diplomatic missions, and charitable organizations were exempted from this tax. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Federal Republic of Germany is the Deutsche Mark. Germany1 participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxem- bourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS), whereby each country maintains the value of its currency in relation to the currencies of the other participating countries. Under this agree- ment, spot exchange rates between the deutsche mark and the currencies of the other participants are maintained within margins of 2.25 percent above or below the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs), except for the Italian lira, for which the temporary intervention limit is plus or minus 6 percent. The agreement implies that the Deutsche Bun- desbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 30, 1988, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates per: Deutsche Mark Upper limit2 Lower limit2 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders 4.740 25.630 29.150 2.619 1.3065 86.780 4.959 26.810 30.495 2.740 1.4735 90.770 In principle, interventions within the EMS are made in participating currencies, but they may also take place in third currencies such as the U.S. dollar. The participants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits, but they intervene periodically with a view to smoothing out erratic fluctuations in exchange rates. Official middle, buying, and selling rates are quoted for 17 foreign currencies on the foreign ex- i rThe term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, including Berlin (West). 2"Upper" and "lower" denote the most appreciated and the most depreciated rate of the deutsche mark, respectively. change market of F rank fu rt am Main.3 On Decem- ber 30, 1988, the official middle rate for the U.S. dollar was DM 1.7803 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign ex- change. Forward exchange contracts involving both commercial and financial transactions may be nego- tiated freely by residents and nonresidents in all leading convertible currencies in the domestic for- eign exchange market and at major international foreign exchange markets. There are no officially fixed rates in the forward exchange market, and all transactions are negotiated at free market rates. Germany formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in respect of im- ports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Trans- portation, the Federal Office for Economics, the Federal Ministry for Food, Agriculture, and For- estry, the Federal Office for Food and Forestry, the Federal Office for Agricultural Marketing Organi- zation, and the Ministries of Economics of the Laender. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. Imports and Import Payments The Import List comprises a total of 10,370 statis- tical positions. Their treatment is as follows: Com- modities corresponding to 115 positions are subject to import licensing when being imported from countries in Country List C.4 The import of some 1,363 textile items (under the arrangements regard- ing international trade in textiles) and of certain steel items is governed by bilateral agreements of the European Economic Community (EEC) with 3Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian and Luxembourg francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Span- ish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 4Countries in List C are Albania, member countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA), the People's Republic of China, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Countries in List A/B are those of the former OEEC area and Finland and all other countries except those in List C. 180 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY 181 various supplier countries. Imports of coal from countries that are not members of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) and f rom Aus- tria, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland are permitted within the framework of an annual global quota. The Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the European Communities (EC) covers about 2,054 statistical items; most of these are subject to variable import levies, which in most cases have replaced previous barriers to imports. Payments for imports are unrestricted. Com- modity fu tu res may be dealt in freely. Most transit trade transactions may also be carried out freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. German and foreign notes and coin and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions —but not the related payments —between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from residents of specified countries and the conclusion of related sea f re ight contracts; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterway t ra f f ic; and transactions with specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine lia- bility insurance and aviation insurance, except pas- senger accident insurance. Exports and Export Proceeds With few exceptions, export transactions may be carried out freely. For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to individual licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations. Foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all payments. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for non- residents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services and for technical assistance through the delivery of constructional drawings, materials, and instructions for manu fac tu re to residents of List C countries (see footnote 4), if such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of pay- ments for services rendered to nonresidents; however, receipts exceeding DM 2,000 on account of services have to be reported for statistical purposes. German and foreign notes and coin and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Residents and nonresidents may export capital freely without a license. Foreign and international bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval. All resident banks, includ- ing legally independent foreign-owned banks, may lead-manage issues of foreign bonds denominated in deutsche mark; the right of foreign-owned banks to lead-manage foreign deutsche mark bond issues is contingent, however, on reciprocal lead-manage- ment rights of German-owned banks in the home countries of the foreign-owned banks operating in Germany. Domestic and foreign securities of all types may be imported or exported freely. Following the changes in regulations beginning March 12, 1981, no restrictions are applied on the sale of German money market papers and fixed interest securities by residents to nonresidents. Nonresidents' direct investments in Germany, pur- chases of real estate in Germany for investment or personal use, and purchases of German or foreign equities do not require approval. There are no lim- itations on the disposal of legacies located in Ger- many and inherited by nonresidents or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Resi- dents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Banks are subject to m in imum reserve require- ments on the level of their foreign liabilities with maturities of less than four years; the minimum reserve ratios at the end of 1988 were, in principle, the same as those applicable to domestic liabilities, that is, 12.1 percent, 4.95 percent, and 4.15 percent on demand, time, and savings deposits, respec- tively. The principal exemption is for banks' foreign currency borrowings that are reinvested abroad. Banks are free to pay interest on domestic or foreign currency balances held by nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in F rank fu r t. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of gold bullion and coin, unworked gold, and gold alloys are free of customs duty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 14 percent. In ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 182 FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY the case of imports of gold coin where the assess- ment basis exceeds 250 percent of the fine gold value, the value-added tax is levied at a rate of 7 per- cent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank are exempt from value-added tax and from customs duty. Domestic transactions in gold are subject to value-added tax at the same rate as imports, but under certain conditions no value-added tax is levied on transactions in gold bullion effected on gold exchanges between brokers who are admitted to these exchanges. Commercial imports and ex- ports of articles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in all cases are liberalized. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of antidumping duties, countervailing charges, and import surveil- lance measures introduced or eliminated by the European Economic Community during 1988, page 561.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ghana is the Ghanaian Cedi. All foreign exchange transactions through the official banking system are settled in accordance with the exchange rate determined in auction, which is held once a week (on Friday). To be eligible for the auc- tion, bids must be above US$500. Rates are quoted for certain other currencies,1 with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Rates for certain inconver- tible currencies of the West African region, includ- ing the Nigerian naira, are also quoted daily, but are only applied to transactions under the West African Clearing House arrangement. The other quoted in- convertible currencies are the Gambian dalasi, the Guinean syli, the Sierra Leonean leone, the Guinea- Bissau peso, and the Mauritanian ouguiya. The au- thorized banks may exchange Ghanaian currency for any foreign currency. On December 30, 1988, the exchange rate in the auction market was C 230 - US$1. With e f fect f rom February 1, 1988, foreign ex- change bureaus were allowed to be opened by any person, bank, or institution licensed by the Bank of Ghana. According to the regulations, foreign ex- change bureaus may purchase traveler's checks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, and may purchase and sell currency notes only in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French (and CFA) francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. In practice, however, traveler's checks in other foreign currencies and other foreign cur- rency notes are also transacted in this market. Sellers of foreign exchange to the bureaus are not required to identify the sources of foreign ex- change. All bona fide imports and services are al- lowed to be funded through the bureaus. Each for- eign exchange bureau is free to quote buying and selling rates. On December 30, 1988, the average buying and selling exchange rates quoted by the bureaus in terms of the U.S. dollars were C 310.00 = US$1 and C 334.84 = US$1, respectively. A processing fee of 5 percent is levied on pur- chases and repurchases of foreign exchange related Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Cana- dian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, French francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, New Zea- land dollars, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss f ranc s. to travel, and on exchange purchases for education, medical treatment abroad, and private outward transfers. There are no arrangements for forward exchange market, currency swaps, or guaranteed exchange rates for external debt-service payments. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Min- istry of Trade is empowered to prohibit, regulate, or license all imports. Before the licensing system was changed on October 6, 1986, applications by the industrial sector and certain state agencies for indi- vidual import licenses had to be channeled through the appropriate ministry or government agency for endorsement. The Controller of Imports and Ex- ports issued import licenses on the basis of an an- nual import program formulated and implemented by the Import Programming and Monitoring Com- mittee (IPMC), comprising the Secretaries of Fi- nance and Economic Planning, Industries, Agricul- ture, Trade, and Health, and the Governor of the Bank of Ghana, with the Coordinating Secretary as Chairman. Following the introduction of the foreign ex- change auction system in September 1986, the li- censing system was modified.2 Under the new sys- tem, three categories of licenses known as "A," "S," and "G" licenses are issued. (See section on Imports and Import Payments, below.) Applications for "A" and "S" licenses must be submitted directly to the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. These licenses are valid for a period of 6 months. The "A" license permits the holder to bid for foreign exchange through the foreign exchange auction system. The "S" license allows the holder to use his own foreign exchange resources to import goods. Government organizations may apply for "G" licenses, but must submit their application to the Ministry of Trade and Tourism through their sector ministries as under the annual import programming. Af ter the import program has been approved by the IPMC, the gov- ernment organizations are allocated "G" licenses directly by the Government. This license permits government organizations to use foreign exchange directly allocated by the Government outside the 2 Effec t ive Janua ry 14, 1989, the import-licensing system was abolished, and importers were required only to file an import declaration fo rm at the commercial banks. 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 184 GHANA auction for the importation of goods and services. The "G" licenses are valid for 12 months. The Ex- change Control Department of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for payments for invisibles and capital. Permitted foreign ex- change transactions must be made through autho- rized banks. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and resi- dents of other countries may be made in permitted currencies. However, settlements related to transac- tions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and the central or state banks of the countries concerned.3 Furthermore, proceeds from exports to countries with which Ghana does not have bilateral payments agreements must be re- ceived in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is among the currencies quoted by the Bank of Ghana) or be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of non- residents —for example, certain types of capital proceeds —may be deposited in Blocked Accounts. These accounts may be debited for authorized pay- ments, including the purchase of approved securities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident account status is granted to embas- sies, legations, consulates, and offices of high com- missioners in Ghana and to the non-Ghanaian members of their s ta f f s. This facility is also available to international institutions and foreign-registered companies operating in Ghana, as well as to non- resident Ghanaians. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments, with transfers f rom other Foreign Ac- counts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of convert- ible currency. They may be debited for inward pay- ments, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of external currencies. 3Ghana ma in ta ins operative b i la teral paymen ts agreements with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, the Ge rman Dem- ocratic Republic, Romania, and Yugoslavia. Nonresident accounts maintained under the provisions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Official Accounts" or "Territorial Accounts." They may be credited with authorized outward pay- ments by residents, with transfers f rom Foreign Accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral pay- ments agreement countries, and with proceeds f rom sales of external currencies, other than re- stricted currencies. They may be debited for autho- rized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for t rans fe rs to the related clear- ing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents —for example, certain types of capital proceeds —may be deposited in Blocked Accounts. These accounts may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom Namibia (South West Africa) and South Afr ica are prohibited. All imports, except four categories (i.e., beer and stout, cigarettes, and cement pipes and roofing sheets of asbestos and fiber) and those prohibited for nontrade reasons, are allowed. Three types of import licenses —"A," "S," and "G" —are issued. "A" licenses permit the holder to bid for foreign exchange in foreign ex- change auctions. A fee of 0.5 percent of the value of the license is charged for each "A" license. "A" licenses are issued to all applicants, provided that they fu l f i ll the statutory obligations necessary for obtaining import licenses; in particular, companies must possess a valid Tax Clearance Certificate and be current in their social security contributions. "S" licenses are issued for the importation of all goods, except for prohibited goods and for the four categories of goods mentioned above. Foreign ex- change to cover imports under "S" licenses is not provided f rom the banking system; such imports must be covered with the importers' own foreign exchange resources. A 20 percent advanced income tax must be paid before an "S" license can be ob- tained, except for applicants who are assessed to be in good standing with the tax authorities and for importers who produce agriculture-related products. "G" licenses are issued to government organiza- tions for the importation of essential goods and ser- vices. Foreign exchange to cover imports under "G" licenses is provided by the Bank of Ghana. Certain imports are channeled through a bulk purchasing ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 185 agent, the Ghana National Procurement Agency, or, for public sector imports, the Ghana Supply Commission. Except for aid imports, import licenses do not specify the country from which the product has to be imported. Licenses for payment in inconvertible currencies may be used for imports f rom any bilat- eral payments agreement country. Licenses are is- sued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the e f fect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. Most imports are effected with confirmed letters of credit established through Ghanaian banks, and usually on a sight basis. For imports valued at over US$2,000 f .o .b ., banks are forbidden to make payments against a letter of credit or a bank d ra ft unless the import documents include a clean report of findings issued by international agencies, which inspect the goods and verify the price, quality, and quan t i ty in the country of origin or shipment. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all applications. Most foreign ex- change purchases for invisible payments are subject to a processing fee of 5 percent ad valorem, with the exception of invisible payments relating to imports. Transfers of normal bank charges payable to over- seas bankers for import payments are generally au- thorized. Commission payments on imports are permitted up to a limit of 3 percent of f .o .b. value. Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the application is properly documented. With few exceptions, insur- ance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f .o .b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghanaian cur- rency with local insurance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian em- ployees and self-employed persons are normally limited to 40 percent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of US$2,600 a year, plus leave pay; this personal remittance quota is intended to cover all personal and family requirements and commit- ments outside Ghana, including leave expenses, travel, education, insurance premiums, and sub- scriptions. Employees in the mining, timber, fish- ing, petroleum, and banking industries are, how- ever, offered a choice between two alternative facilities. Under one of these, they are allowed to transfer 40 percent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of US$2,600 a year, plus leave pay and the balance on their savings at the end of their tour of duty. Under the other facility, when documen- ta ry evidence of their commitments outside Ghana can be produced in support of their applications, employees can transfer up to 70 percent of their net annual earnings and the balance on their savings at the end of their tour of duty. With the exception of companies financed with locally raised capital, non- resident companies are, in principle, permitted to t rans fer abroad freely their net profits a f ter tax; at present, however, transfers of profits are being au- thorized only on a limited basis. The transfer of profits by companies that have been financed with locally raised capital is not permitted.4 Foreign exchange is not provided for tourist travel, and foreign exchange for business travel is granted only in exceptional cases, with per diem allowances determined on a case-by-case basis. Resident travelers may take with them foreign currency up to a maximum of US$3,000 or its equiv- alent. Nonresident travelers may take out any un- used foreign currency brought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Namibia (South West Africa) and South Africa are prohibited, as are exports of iron and steel scrap. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are exported through the Cocoa Board, and diamonds are exported through the Diamond Marketing Corporation. Exports of bauxite, gold, manganese, and timber are subject to a 6 percent export tax; for cocoa, the export tax is the difference between export proceeds, on the one hand, and payments to farmers together with operational costs, on the other, if the proceeds exceed the payments. With the exceptions noted below, exporters are required to collect and repatriate in fu ll the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; pro- ceeds f rom exports of nontraditional products must be surrendered to a commercial bank in Ghana upon receipt. Exporters are generally allowed to retain up to 35 percent of their export proceeds in accounts abroad for financing essential imports. However, the retention ratio is 45 percent for the Ashanti Gold Mining Company, 20 percent for log exporters, and 2 percent for the Cocoa Board. The retention scheme does not apply to exports of re- sidual oil and electricity. However, receipts from the export of electricity are not required to be surren- dered to the Bank of Ghana. 4E f fec t ive February 1, 1989, t rans fe rs of prof i ts and dividends were allowed through the auction market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 186 GHANA Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to autho- rized dealers. Foreign currency notes may be im- ported freely. Repurchases of foreign exchange ac- quired for the purpose of foreign travel are subject to a processing fee of 5 percent. Capital Foreign investments in Ghana require the prior approval of the Ghana Investment Center if they are to benefit from the facilities available under the Investment Code. Under the Investment Code of 1981, approved investments are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquidation, capital proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allowances, etc. are also available for such investments. The Code stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expro- priated. Where there is a dispute over the amount of compensation, the dispute is settled in accordance with the established procedure for conciliation —for example, through arbitration by the International Center for Settlements of Investment Disputes or the United Nations Commission on International Trade and Law. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. The proceeds of the sales of foreign ownership to Ghanaian nationals are held in blocked, non-interest-bearing accounts with the Bank of Ghana; these accounts carry an exchange rate guarantee. Transfers of such funds are being effected gradually. Under a supplementary Investment Code issued in July 1985, incentives are provided to promote foreign investments that promise to be net foreign exchange earners. The main features of the 1981 and 1985 codes, which offer incentives and guaran- tees to encourage foreign investments in areas other than petroleum and mining (already covered by a Minerals Code), are as follows: (1) exemption from customs duties in respect of importation of plant, machinery, and equipment; (2) more favorable de- preciation or capital allowances; (3) permission to operate an external account in which at least 25 per- cent of the investing company's foreign exchange earnings may be retained for procuring machinery and equipment, spare parts, and raw materials, for servicing of debt, and for transfers of dividends and profits; (4) guarantee for the remittance of foreign capital in the event of sale or liquidation; and (5) protection against expropriation. The minimum requirement of investment capital to qua l ify under the codes is US$60,000 for joint ventures with a Ghanaian partner and US$100,000 for enterprises that are wholly foreign owned. All outgoing capital movements must be ap- proved by the Bank of Ghana; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evi- dence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are ap- proved, provided that all local indebtedness has been settled. Requests for the transfer of funds rep- resenting personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate documentation showing that the sav- ings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capi- tal is involved. Proceeds from the liquidation of the real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be approved for transfer in one lump sum or may be spread over a period of time, depending on the amount. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident com- panies controlled by nonresidents require the indi- vidual approval of the Bank of Ghana. Residents who are private persons are not normally granted foreign exchange for the acquisition of securities or personal real estate abroad. Transactions in se- curities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad. In respect of portfolio invest- ments, residents must obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by non- residents. Private sector and commercial bank bor- rowing require the approval of the Bank of Ghana, as do private import credits for machinery and equipment valued at US$100,000 or more; foreign borrowing by Ghanaian nationals is subject to cer- tain government guidelines. Lending to nonresi- dents is prohibited, except for export credits; these require exchange control approval and are normally limited to 60 days. Under a system of external accounts for debt- service payments introduced in 1980 to enable export-oriented industries to get external aid, such industries are allowed to operate foreign exchange accounts (in addition to their regular retention ac- counts) with funds earmarked f rom export earnings for the purpose of debt-service payments. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Committee on Suppliers' Credit and the Ex- change Control Department of the Bank of Ghana; the latter also monitors the receipts and payments out of these accounts. Such accounts have been established for the diamond sector as well as for the fishing and timber companies financed with sup- pliers' credits. Gold Domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the State Gold ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 187 Mining Corporation in collaboration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold Mining Products Pro- tection Ordinance. With these exceptions, Ghan- aian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than those by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities are not normally licensed. The import du ty on bullion, partly worked gold, and other gold is levied at a un iform rate of 30 percent. The gold mines export their ou tput in semirefined form. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement February 1. The Government issued a regulation permitting the operation of foreign exchange bu- reaus. Both commercial banks, through a separately instituted entity, and other authorized dealers were licensed to operate a bureau. Bureaus would be allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange at freely negotiated rates. Sellers of foreign exchange to the bureaus would not be required to identify the sources of foreign exchange, and all bona fide im- ports and services would be eligible for funding through the bureaus. Nontraditional exporters would be allowed to sell their foreign exchange in the retention accounts to the bureaus. Imports and Import Payments February 1. All remaining imports, except the four categories on the negative list and those prohibited for nontrade reasons, were allowed to be effected through the auction market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Greece is the Greek Drachma. The Greek authorities operate a managed float for the drachma. On December 30, 1988, buying and selling rates in the interbank market were Dr 147.56 and Dr 148.54, respectively, per US$1, which is the intervention currency. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other currencies1 are determined during the daily fixing session, in which the Bank of Greece (the central bank) and the authorized commercial banks participate. In the domestic spot exchange market, the commercial banks quote their own rates. The commercial banks may levy a commission on all foreign exchange transactions in the domestic forward exchange market. The rates applied by the commercial banks are based on those determined daily by the Bank of Greece. Forward cover is ex- tended only to commercial transactions carried out by residents for a maturity period of up to 3 months for imports and 12 months for exports. Forward rates are also quoted to nonresident banks, pro- vided that relevant contracts involve a foreign cur- rency against convertible drachmas for a maturity period of up to 3 months. Exchange risk is under- taken by the Bank of Greece. Greece is a member of the European Monetary System (EMS). The drachma is included in the Eu- ropean Currency Unit (ECU) basket, but does not participate in the exchange rate mechanism. Administration of Control Foreign exchange regulations are administered by the Bank of Greece. Commercial banks are au- thorized to carry out all the necessary formalities for the settlement of imports and exports. In almost all cases, they automatically grant approval for imports and prepare the documentation for exports accord- ing to exchange regulations. The commercial banks are also authorized to undertake transactions in for- eign exchange for invisibles and capital. Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, U.S. dollars, and ECUs. 188 Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible foreign currency or through deposit accounts in convertible drachmas. Accounts in Foreign Currency and Convertible Drachmas Accounts in Foreign Currencies. These accounts may be maintained by nonresident persons and entities, foreigners of Greek origin residing abroad, Greek nationals residing and working abroad (in- cluding seamen), Greek residents, and nonprofit private legal entities with a head office in Greece. These accounts may be credited with foreign ex- change brought into Greece and with foreign bank notes brought into Greece and declared upon entry. Principal and interest on these accounts are freely transferable abroad. Savings and time deposits may be opened up to 12 months. The Bank of Greece sets an upper limit on interest on these accounts, with the exception of the rate on residents' deposits, which is fixed by the Bank of Greece, and of the rate on nonresidents' deposits, which is negotiable. The interest rate on sight deposits is 1.5 percent a year, whereas the interest rates on time deposits for a period of up to 6 months are negotiable. Banks operating in Greece are allowed to lend to credit institutions abroad in convertible drachmas in amounts not exceeding the banks' total deposits in convertible drachmas; the maturity of such loans can be up to 6 months, and the interest rate is negotiable. Blocked Accounts. Claims of non-EC (European Communities) residents denominated in drachmas that are not derived from imported foreign currency must be deposited in Blocked Accounts. The with- drawal of funds from these accounts is permitted only with the approval of the Bank of Greece. Pay- ments abroad from these accounts are allowed with the approval of the Bank of Greece. Imports and Import Payments Approval for imports is granted automatically by the commercial banks, and it implies that the re- quired amount of foreign exchange will be made available. Import approvals may be obtained after shipment has taken place. Special import licenses ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 189 are required for textiles and iron and steel products that come from low-cost countries; these products are under surveillance according to EC quotas. Spe- cial regulations govern imports of certain items, such as medicines, narcotics, and motion picture films. Settlement of the value of imported goods must take place within 60 days of the date of arrival at the first Greek port. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are granted automatically for expenses incidental to authorized transactions. Residents traveling abroad for family reasons or tourism are entitled to the equivalent of ECU 840 for each trip to EC countries and Cyprus, or the equiv- alent of US$600 for each trip to all other countries. In addition to this allowance, travelers participating in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. Trav- elers may also take with them a maximum of Dr 10,000 in Greek bank notes. Foreign exchange for business travel is granted without restriction on the number of trips to be taken in a year. For medical treatment abroad, the required foreign exchange is made available. For studies abroad, the amount covering living ex- penses is granted; in addition, foreign exchange is granted to cover tuition fees, books, etc. Nonresidents leaving Greece may take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of US$1,000 within a year after their arrival in Greece, as well as trav- eler's checks and other means of payment in their name, irrespective of amount; they may also take out Dr 10,000 in Greek bank notes.2 Larger amounts in foreign bank notes can be taken out not later than December 31 of the calendar year following the year in which the nonresident entered Greece, provided that they were declared upon entry into Greece. Payments of interest, profits, and dividends are governed by the regulations that are applied to capi- tal transfers to Greece (see section on Capital, below). Foreign banks operating in Greece are permitted to repatriate their profits, irrespective of the nature of their operations. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be surrendered within 180 days of the date of shipment of the goods. In special cases, the authorities may extend this limit by ap- proving time settlement of the value of exports. Export goods are not subject to the value-added tax. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange earnings representing pay- ments for services must be surrendered within 45 days of the date of receipt. Earnings from shipping are exempt from the surrender requirements, but shipowners must cover their disbursements and ex- penses in Greece by converting foreign exchange into drachmas. Greek residents may bring in any amount of for- eign exchange, but must declare it upon entry if they wish to take it out on their next departure; they may also bring in a maximum of Dr 10,000 in bank notes. Nonresident travelers may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it, provided they do not intend to take out amounts in excess of the equivalent of US$1,000. Traveler's checks and other means of payment in a traveler's name are not subject to a limit. Travelers may also bring in a maximum of Dr 25,000 in Greek bank notes.3 Capital Direct investments in Greece by non EC-resi- dents are subject to prior approval, and the repatria- tion of capital and capital gains is permitted after three years following the realization of the invest- ment. Interest and dividends may be repatriated af ter the first fiscal year. Investments in real estate in Greece by non-EC residents are permitted, and the income and earnings can be repatriated. The pro- ceeds of liquidation can be repatriated after five years following the conversion of the foreign cur- rency into drachmas. Direct investments by residents of Greece in EC countries are permitted, with the exception of the participation in new or existing undertakings and long-term loans, which are subject to approval until June 1989. Investments in real estate and in se- curities by residents of Greece in EC countries are subject to approval until the end of 1989, with the exception of investments in securities issued by the European Communities and the European Invest- ment Bank, up to a ceiling of ECU 50 million a year. Direct investments and investments in real estate or in securities by residents of Greece in non-EC countries require prior approval. Greek firms are allowed to borrow in foreign ex- change without prior approval, provided that the maturity of the loans is at least six months. Bank and nonbank loans from abroad, which do not fall into 2Effective January 30, 1989, the amount was increased to Dr 20,000. 3Effective January 30, 1989, the amount was increased to Dr 100,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 190 GREECE the above category and do not qualify as direct investments, are subject to prior approval. Transfers abroad of the liquidation proceeds of listed and unlisted securities, as well as treasury bills and long-term government bonds and bonds of public sector entities, are permitted, provided that foreign currency was used for their purchase. The transfer abroad of the liquidation proceeds of un- listed securities by non-EC residents is subject to prior approval. Legislative Decree 2687/1953 is in force and may apply to direct investments. Gold Residents may freely purchase new gold sov- ereigns from the Bank of Greece through licensed stockbrokers at a price set by the Bank of Greece. These gold coins may be resold only to the Bank of Greece or to the Athens Stock Exchange. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed before December 22, 1965 may sell them without any formality to the Bank of Greece or to an autho- rized bank at the official price. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange are on Import List F and require a special license; licenses are normally issued to importers for distribution to jew- elers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported for other than commercial purposes when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Ex- ports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved except when gold bars or coins are brought in by travelers and declared upon entry, in which case they may be exported after being ap- proved by the Bank of Greece. Changes During 1988 Nonresident Accounts March 12. Blocked accounts of EC residents were abolished. October 27. Non-EC residents holding blocked ac- counts were allowed to use balances on such ac- counts for the purchase of bank bonds, treasury bills, government bonds, and shares in mutual funds, provided that such securities would remain blocked in the name of the entitled person. Imports and Import Payments4 January 1. The regulatory tax on imported goods was reduced by 20 percent of the base rate that 4See Appendix for a summary of antidumping duties, coun- tervailing charges, and import surveillance measures introduced or eliminated by the European Economic Community during 1988, page 561. applied on July 1, 1984. (The tax was abolished effective January 1, 1989.) Payments for Invisibles January 1. The allowance for travel to the EC countries by residents was raised from ECU 800 to ECU 840 a year. June 22. The allowance for travel to EC countries by residents was changed from ECU 840 a year to ECU 840 a trip, and that for travel to other countries, from US$600 a year to US$600 a trip. November 22. The allowance for travel to the EC countries by residents holding international credit cards was set at ECU 300 a year, and that for travel to other countries was set at US$300 a year. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. Export subsidies granted under Deci- sion 1574/70 of the Greek Monetary Committee were reduced by 15 percent and 12 percent (of the base rates that applied on December 31, 1986) with re- spect to exports to the EC and non-EC countries, respectively. January 1. Export subsidies granted under Deci- sion 212/83 of the Governor of the Bank of Greece were eliminated. April 21. Export proceeds were required to be surrendered within 180 days of the date of the ship- ment of the goods (previously within 90 days). Capital November 23. Direct investment in the EC coun- tries by Greek residents was liberalized. However, in cases of participation in new or existing firms for the purpose of establishing or maintaining lasting economic links and of long-term loans granted for the same purpose, prior authorization would be re- quired until June 30, 1989; this authorization would be granted if at least 25 percent of the investment concerned was covered by borrowing in foreign currency. November 23. Residents were allowed to purchase securities issued by the EC or the European Invest- ment Bank up to a global limit of ECU 50 million a year. November 23. Personal capital transfers by Greek residents to EC residents were completely liber- alized. These included gifts and endowments, dow- ries, inheritances and legacies, and emigrants' assets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Grenada is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1988, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the ECCB in its transactions with com- mercial banks were EC$2.69 and EC$2.71, respec- tively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. An exchange tax of 5 percent is levied on all sales of foreign exchange by commercial banks, except for payments for imports of some basic foods and drugs, remittances to cover the expenses of univer- sity education abroad, transactions of the Grenada Development Bank with the European Investment Bank, and transactions by any person or corporate body approved under the Hotels Ordinance. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries. It is administered by the Ministry of Finance. The Min- istry delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import payments and certain other outward payments. The exchange control directives do not apply to transactions with South Africa. Trade controls are administered by the Trade Divi- sion of the Ministry of Finance. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East- ern Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with resi- dents of the former Sterling Area countries, other irThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. than CARICOM countries, may be made in pounds sterling, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in Eastern Caribbean dollars to and from External Accounts. Settlements with residents of countries outside the former Sterling Area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents by authorized dealers without reference to the Ministry of Finance. These accounts are main- tained in Eastern Caribbean dollars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign cur- rencies, with transfers from other External Ac- counts, with bank interest (payable on External Ac- counts), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Ministry. They may be debited for payments to resi- dents of Grenada, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any over- drafts require individual approval. Foreign Currency Accounts Residents and nonresidents are permitted to open foreign currency accounts without referring to the Ministry of Finance. Such accounts may be freely debited but can be credited only with foreign exchange earned or received from outside the ECCB area. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported. Imports of the following products are prohibited: industrial gas; cigarettes; processed pork products; curry powder; war toys; diothene plastic sheets and corrugated cardboard for the banana industry; solar water heaters; electric accumulators for automobiles; and aluminum windows, doors, and associated items. Certain other commodities are subject to quantita- tive restrictions and require an import license. 3Foreign currencies include all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 192 GRENADA Payments for documented imports are free of re- strictions. Payments for other authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs war- rants) to the Ministry of Finance. Advance pay- ments for imports also require prior approval by this Ministry. Imports of equipment and spare parts are ex- empted from import duties. Also exempted are im- ports by the commodity associations in cases where imports are intended for quality improvements in the growing or packaging of bananas, cocoa, and nutmeg. Imports not exempt from customs duty are subject to a value-added tax of 20 percent of c . i .f. value, with the exception of imports of raw materials for use in local manufacturing of finished products, which are subject to an 8 percent value-added tax. Payments for Invisibles With the exception of outward remittances for education, medical treatment, gifts, family mainte- nance, profits, dividends, insurance premiums, proceeds from sales of local property, royalties, and management fees, payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Authority has been del- egated to authorized dealers to provide basic alloca- tions of foreign exchange for a few types of pay- ments. These include foreign travel (for which up to EC$5,000 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and up to EC$10,000 a person a year for business travel), subscriptions to magazines and periodicals, and life insurance premiums on policies contracted before June 1975. With the ex- ception of tourism, applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation normally are approved by the Ministry of Finance, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital is involved. Applications in respect of tour- ism in excess of EC$5,000 a person are considered on their merits. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Nonresi- dent travelers may export any foreign currency pre- viously brought in with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and spe- cific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. There are no formal reg- ulations to ensure that export proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within a certain period after the date of shipment, but the collection of export proceeds is mandatory. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Travelers may bring in freely notes and coin in Eastern Caribbean currency or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of for- eign currency securities and of real estate abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Certifi- cates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depos- itory in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require exchange control approval, which normally is granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. There are certain al- lowances for cash gifts (EC$500 a person a year) and for emigration purposes. The Ministry of Finance will also consider transfer applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Grenada and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad. Direct investment in Grenada by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, provided that all liabilities related to the investment have been discharged and that the original investment was registered with the Ministry of Finance. Nonresi- dents may acquire in Grenada real estate for private purposes with funds in foreign currency; local cur- rency financing is not ordinarily permitted. The repatriation of the proceeds from the realization of such investments requires the approval of the Min- istry of Finance. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is re- quired for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresi- dents to borrow in Grenada. Authorized dealers may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by au- thorized dealers to finance their domestic opera- tions requires the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not per- mitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA 193 of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. Li- censes to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance. The export of gold is not normally permitted. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement February 12. Transactions of the Grenada Develop- ment Bank with the European Investment Bank were exempted from the foreign exchange tax. June 17. Transactions by any person or corporate body approved under the Hotels Ordinance were exempted from the foreign exchange tax. Imports and Import Payments January 15. Imports of industrial gas were prohibited. February 5. Imports of cigarettes were prohibited. March 31. Imports of processed pork products were prohibited. December 16. Imports of the following products were prohibited: war toys; curry powder; diothene plastic sheets and corrugated cardboard for the ba- nana industry; solar water heaters; electric ac- cumulators for automobiles; and aluminum win- dows, doors, and associated items. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guatemala is the Guatemalan Quetzal. On June 23, 1988, a three-tier exchange rate system was unified into a single regulated mar- ket at the rate of Q 2.70 = US$1. This unification represented the completion of the exchange rate market reforms begun in June 1986. Certain foreign exchange operations of the Bank of Guatemala that have no economic effect are conducted at an ac- counting exchange rate of Q 1 = US$1. The unified rate is adjusted periodically in line with develop- ments in the external sector. Buying and selling rates for certain currencies other than the U.S. dollar1 are also officially quoted, mainly on the basis of their rates in the New York market. A tax is levied on all exports except pe- troleum, with different rates for different categories of exports, which vary in proportion to their interna- tional prices. The export tax is collected, in practice, at the time of exchange surrender. On January 27, 1947, Guatemala formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala is in charge of administering the foreign exchange regime. Foreign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guatemala; those of the private sector are made through banks authorized by the Mone- tary Board. Exports of goods and services must be registered in the Foreign Exchange Department to guarantee the repatriation of the corresponding for- eign exchange proceeds. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency In practice, most transactions in foreign exchange are denominated in U.S. dollars. Trade transactions with other Central American countries are settled in U.S. dollars. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Imports and Import Payments All merchandise imports must be registered with the Foreign Exchange Department or one of the authorized banks. Guatemala issues foreign ex- change licenses either against letters of credit and prepayments or against duplicate bills of lading and invoices with statistical information consistent with the import registration. Imports of goods from Nicaragua require regis- tration with the Bank of Guatemala. Import licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy are required for imports of maps of Guatemala, coffee beans and coffee plants, explosives, lead, poultry, milk, eggs, sugar, wheat flour, basic food grains, cottonseed, tallow, and a few other goods. Imports of cacao are prohibited from all sources. Imports from Costa Rica, Honduras, Mexico, Colombia, and Panama are regulated by bilateral trade agreements. Except in the case of imports with letters of credit or trade credits, a 50 percent guarantee deposit, to be made at the time of the request for foreign ex- change, is required as prepayment for imports. De- posits may be made in cash, bank guarantees, or government bonds and are refundable when the Bank of Guatemala has received from the importer a document issued by customs verifying the arrival of the merchandise. In the case of imports made under particular letters of credit in the private banks, an Import Compromise is required. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Invisible transactions relating to travel outside the country, school fees, study expenses, international credit card payments, and others are permitted without restriction if the amounts involved do not exceed US$4,000. All other invisibles transactions are approved on a case-by-case basis by the Bank of Guatemala when the transactions exceed US$4,000. All proceeds from invisibles must be sold to autho- rized dealers. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. Exports of a few other items are prohibited, including the export of gold (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a special ex- port license) and silver in any form. Travelers may, however, take out up to Q 25 in silver coin that is legal tender in foreign countries. Exporters must 194 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA 195 obtain an export permit issued by the Foreign Ex- change Department before the Guatemalan cus- toms can authorize shipment of the merchandise; the granting of export permits is contingent on agreement to sell export proceeds to the Bank of Guatemala or an authorized bank within 45 days to 6 months of the date of issuance. In the case of exports destined to Central America, there are clearing arrangements among the central banks to settle payments in their own national currencies, Derecho de Importacion Centroamericana (DICA), U.S. dollars, or barter. Capital All capital transactions take place without limita- tions at the regulated market rate. All investment by foreign or foreign-controlled companies in the con- struction of private housing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. In- vestment in the petroleum sector is governed by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Guatemala can negotiate gold in coins or bars either directly or through the banks, and is entitled to require the surrender, directly or through authorized banks, of the gold holdings of any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artis- tic or industrial users, in accordance with directives of the Monetary Board. The export of gold is pro- hibited except when the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement June 23. A three-tier exchange rate system was unified into a single regulated market at the rate of Q 2.70 = US$1. Certain foreign exchange opera- tions of the Bank of Guatemala are conducted using an accounting exchange rate of Q 1 = US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea is the Guinean Franc. Guinea maintains a floating exchange rate system, under which the exchange rate against the U.S. dollar is set in weekly fixing sessions. The private sector and public enterprises, through the inter- mediation of commercial banks, may sell and pur- chase foreign exchange for all import and invisible payments, except for limitations placed on pur- chases for tourist travel and the transfer abroad of salaries by nonresident workers. All other public sector transactions take place at the latest fixing rate. The exchange rate of the Guinean franc is quoted in terms of the U.S. dollar; the rates for other curren- cies are determined on the basis of their U.S. dollar rates in international markets. The exchange rate for the CFA franc results from the relationship between this currency and the French franc. Settlements un- der the bilateral payments agreement with the Peo- ple's Republic of China are effected in renminbi at the rate resulting from the current GF/U.S. dollar and U.S. dollar/yuan rates. On December 31, 1988, the official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was GF 550 per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, which is under the direct supervision of the Presidency. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require approval by the Exchange Department of the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with re- spect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies prescribed by, and through accounts estab- lished under, the provisions of the agreements.1 Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, 1 Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with the People's Republic of China, Cuba, and Viet Nam; all agreements except that with the People's Republic of China are inoperative. Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with other countries are made in designated convertible cur- rencies quoted by the Central Bank. All current transactions effected in Guinea are required to be settled in Guinean francs. Resident Foreign Currency Accounts The opening of deposit accounts in foreign cur- rency by residents at the domestic commercial banks is subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Cur- rencies, and Nonresident Accounts in Guinean Francs. The opening of a nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Convertible Accounts Accounts in convertible Guinean francs may be opened by residents and nonresidents. Such ac- counts are to be credited with deposits in foreign exchange, irrespective of its origin. Exporters may hold up to 25 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds in convertible Guinean francs. Such ac- counts may be debited freely and converted by com- mercial banks into foreign currencies without prior authorization from the Central Bank. These ac- counts carry an interest premium of 2 percentage points over deposit accounts in Guinean francs. Imports and Import Payments Almost all products may be freely imported into Guinea (except armaments, munitions, and narco- tics). Petroleum products may be imported only by the public sector. Mining companies may, however, import crude oil directly. All imports are subject to an authorization, which is granted within one week after application by the Central Bank. There are two types of authorizations: those issued for imports with access to foreign ex- change provided at rates determined during weekly fixing sessions, and those given for imports fi- nanced with own foreign exchange (autorisation sans 196 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA 197 achat de devises). To obtain an authorization, im- porters are required to fill out a form (descriptifd'im- portation), on which information on products to be imported, their prices, and the terms of financing must be provided. In the case of authorizations with access to the auction market, they are issued only after verifica- tion of the prices and quality of products and the terms of financing (in the case of import credits). Requests for foreign exchange must be submitted through commercial banks at the weekly fixing sessions. Certain imports are effected outside the auction system. This category comprises goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the official foreign exchange resources of Guinea and covers mainly imports by four "mixed-economy companies" (the Friguia Company; the Guinea Bauxite Company; AREDOR, the diamond company; and AUG, the gold company) and foreign embassies. All commodities are subject to import tariffs. Rice is subject to a zero tariff; a 5 percent tariff is levied on certain primary foodstuffs, including edible oils, wheat flour, sugar, meat, and fowl; all other imports are subject to a 10 percent tar iff. In addition, a surtax of 20 percent or 30 percent is imposed on all luxury goods. The import tariff payable by the two mixed enterprises in the mining sector is subject to special agreements. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles through the official foreign exchange market require the authorization of the Central Bank. Payments for freight and insur- ance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import operation. No official exchange is granted for other types of insurance with com- panies abroad. Allocations for tourism, other than for the purchase of airline tickets, are limited to US$800 a person a trip, with a maximum of four trips a calendar year; each application is considered individually. Government officials on official mis- sions are permitted an allowance of US$90 a day. In cases of serious illness, when a doctor's certificate is submitted, residents may be granted foreign ex- change for medical care abroad or they may be per- mitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Payments for family support through the official market may be made up to monthly amounts deter- mined on the merits of the case; for officially recogn- ized study abroad, the allocation is the equivalent of the amount of a government scholarship—that is, US$100 a month —but students beginning their studies abroad are granted an additional foreign exchange allowance of up to US$150. The Investment Law of 1985 (as amended in 1987) guarantees that profits earned from approved for- eign investments may be transferred abroad; the transfer of certified dividends and royalties is per- mitted in full. It also provides for certain tax incen- tives. The transfer abroad of salaries by expatriate workers is authorized up to a limit of 50 percent of base earnings, and only for those contracts ap- proved by the Ministry of Labor. The export of Guin- ean currency is limited to GF 5,000 a traveler a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require domiciliation with a commer- cial bank and filing of export description in order to (1) permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e.g., special taxes payable in foreign exchange are levied on the volume of bauxite and alumina exported); (2) prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption; and (3) prevent the export of capital. For the following commodities, special authoriza- tion from designated agencies is required: wild ani- mals (dead or alive), edible animals, articles of his- toric or ethnographic interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. Foreign planters may be granted special transfer privileges related to the quantity of pineapples, ba- nanas, or citrus fruits exported, and private traders may also be permitted to retain a part of their export proceeds in order to finance authorized imports. The mixed-economy companies are allowed to re- tain their export proceeds abroad, to pay for their imports and operating requirements, and to service their external debt. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, exchange proceeds accruing to resi- dents in respect of invisibles are required to be surrendered. The import of foreign bank notes and traveler's checks is permitted freely, subject to dec- laration on entry; however, both must be surren- dered by residents within 15 days after entry to commercial banks, with an option for deposit in resident foreign currency accounts. Nonresident travelers may re-export the foreign exchange de- clared upon entry. The import of Guinean currency is limited to GF 5,000 a traveler a trip. Capital All capital transfers through the official market require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals through the official market are prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 198 GUINEA The Investment Law of 1985 provides guarantees against the nationalization of foreign investments in the industrial and mining sectors. It also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment applica- ble to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and liquidation pro- ceeds of such investments. Small- and medium- sized enterprises in which at least GF 50 million is invested over a three-year period may receive im- port tax reductions and exemptions from other taxes for a period of eight to ten years. Exemptions for up to 15 years may be granted on long-term invest- ments of particular importance to the economy. The minimum foreign investment in Guinean enter- prises is GF 10 million. Guinean nationals must have controlling interests in enterprises requiring foreign investment of GF 10 million to GF 50 million. Gold The Central Bank purchases gold from individ- uals who may choose to be paid in Guinean francs or up to 50 percent in foreign currency and the rest in local currency. The proceeds from gold sales in foreign currencies may be credited to the convert- ible acounts in Guinean francs, and the funds with- drawn from these accounts may be used only for import payments. Guinea has four issues of commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Furthermore, resi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guinea for numismatic purposes. With these exceptions, resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and au- thorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than artisanal gold or jewelry, at home or abroad. Changes During 1988 Prescription of Currency February 1. All current transactions effected in Guinea, including hotel bills, rents, airline tickets, airport taxes, insurance premia, and education and communication expenses, were required to be set- tled in Guinean francs. Resident and Nonresident Convertible Accounts February 1. Accounts in convertible Guinean francs were allowed to be opened by residents and nonresidents. Payments for Invisibles February 1. Foreign exchange allowances for tour- ist travel were set at US$800 a person a trip, with a maximum of four trips a calendar year. The transfer abroad of salaries by expatriate workers was raised to 50 percent of base earnings. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea-Bissau is the Guinea- Bissau Peso. Guinea-Bissau follows a flexible ex- change rate policy under which the exchange rate of the Guinea-Bissau peso in terms of the SDR is ad- justed at relatively short intervals on the basis of estimated domestic price developments. Daily buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, and for other foreign currencies are fixed within margins of 2.25 percent of the SDR rate for the Guinea-Bissau peso. On December 31,1988, the official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was PG 1,363.09 per US$1. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are under the con- trol of the National Bank of Guinea-Bissau (the cen- tral bank). Foreign exchange proceeds must be sur- rendered to the central bank. However, exporters are allowed to retain 50 percent of proceeds to pay for eligible merchandise imports. Residents must declare to the central bank all their physical assets and foreign exchange holdings abroad. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all foreign countries must be made in foreign currency. The central bank may prescribe the currency in which export earnings are to be received. Guinea-Bissau maintains a bilateral payments agreement with Algeria, but this agree- ment has been inoperative since 1981. Settlements with the Central Bank of West Afr ican States ( for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to prior licensing. Import licenses are automatically issued for a list of goods (excluding petroleum) covering about 75 percent of commercial imports. In principle, licenses are is- sued by the Ministry of Economic Coordination, Commerce, and Tourism in line with availability of foreign exchange and on the basis of a program agreed between the central bank and the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism. Licenses are valid for the period of the import transaction and have to be presented to the central bank within 180 days. Only importers registered with the Ministry of Economic Coordination, Commerce, and Tourism may receive licenses. Each license specifies the quantity and value ( c . i . f. and f . o . b .) of the product to be im- ported; a separate license is required for each prod- uct. Licenses for project-related imports financed by foreign loans or grants are granted automatically. Import licenses are normally provided within 48 days of a documented request. Imports of petro- leum products are a state monopoly. Private sector importers with valid import li- censes may freely provide their foreign exchange to f inance their imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior ap- proval of the Committee of Foreign Exchange Con- trol. Foreign exchange allocations for many pay- ments for invisibles, including those for tourism, for purchases of stocks, bonds, and real estate, and for prof it remittances, have been temporarily sus- pended. Transfers of pension payments are autho- rized in accordance with specific criteria. Although no foreign exchange may be purchased for tourism, airplane tickets can be bought with domestic cur- rency. Airline companies may transfer in foreign exchange the d ifference between their payments and receipts in Guinea-Bissau pesos. These trans- fers are approved on an ad hoc basis. Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are limited to the equivalent of PG 50,000 a trip. For study abroad, foreign exchange is granted up to the equivalent of PG 17,100 each month (PG 13,800 for high school students). Allowances for travel for health reasons are permitted up to the equivalent of PG 80,000. Remittances to close relatives (parents and children) living abroad are permitted. Foreign travelers may take out any remaining foreign cur- rency declared upon entry. 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 200 GUINEA-BISSAU Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from Invisibles All exports require an export license. Only ex- porters registered with the Ministry of Economic Coordination, Commerce, and Tourism may obtain export licenses, which are granted automatically in most cases. Until August 1986, exports of ground- nuts and cashew nu ts were reserved for the Govern- ment and were effected by two state companies, the People's Stores and SOCOMIM. Other products ex- ported solely by the Government included palm kernels, sawn wood and logs, shrimp, fish, beer, nonalcoholic beverages, groundnut oil, and par- quet flooring. On August 13, 1986, the Government authorized the private sector to engage in exportation of any product. Exporters are allowed to retain up to 50 percent of proceeds to pay for eligible merchan- dise imports. Since May 4, 1987, foreign exchange earnings may be surrendered to the banking system without their sources being identified. Private ex- porters of nontraditional products are authorized to use up to the equivalent of their total foreign ex- change receipts, less an export duty, to pay for mer- chandise imports. All exports are subject to a general customs fee of 1 percent. On May 4, 1987, the effective export tax rate on cashew nuts was reduced f rom 80 percent to 50 percent, ad valorem, and all other export taxes were abolished. In 1988 the export tax on cashew nuts was fu r ther reduced to 45 percent ad valorem. A special regime applies to exports destined for countries of the Economic Community of West A f r i- can States (ECOWAS); they are exempt f rom the 1 per- cent general customs fee. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency. Foreign airline companies must cover the excess of their expenditures over revenues in Guinea-Bissau pesos by transfers from abroad or by the sale of their foreign exchange receipts for Guinea-Bissau pesos. All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. Capital Foreign investment operations are guided by the Investment Code introduced in 1980. Under this Code, which is being reviewed, exchange control is exercised over capital receipts and payments. Capi- tal t rans fe rs associated with emigration are autho- rized by "transitional norms" within a monthly limit of PG 50,000 and up to 20 percent of total taxable income earned during a period of not more than ten years. At present, however, such transfers are suspended. Gold Exports and imports of gold are prohibited, ex- cept when authorized by the head of state and the Ministry of Finance. Changes During 1988 Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. The export tax on cashew nu ts was re- duced to 45 percent ad valorem. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guyana is the Guyana Dollar, which is pegged to a basket of currencies consisting of the pound sterling, the deutsche mark, the Jap- anese yen, the French franc, and the Netherlands guilder. The external value of the Guyana dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is announced on a weekly basis. On January 19, 1987, the central rate for the Guyana dollar was changed from G$4.40 = US$1 to G$10.0 - US$1. This rate is applicable to all foreign exchange transactions, with the exception of the purchase of gold and diamonds and certain transactions conducted at the commer- cial banks. On February 9, 1987, a commercial bank foreign exchange window intended to operate at market- related rates was established.1 The exchange rate at this market moved to G$21.0 per US$1 by the end of June 1987 and remains at this level. Effective Sep- tember 21,1987, special rates for gold and diamonds were merged with the rate in the commercial bank foreign exchange window. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The Bank of Guyana (the central bank) charges commissions at different rates on the pur- chase and sale of the officially quoted currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Guyana formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Minis- ter of Finance who has entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. Authority for approving current payments up to specified amounts is dele- gated to the banks authorized for this purpose; all other import payments and certain payments in Several restrictions apply to transactions in the free foreign exchange market, which affect their volume and exchange rate. Exporters are not authorized to transact in this market, and the main sources of foreign exchange are receipts from tourism arid remittances. 2Barbados dollars, Canadian dollars, Eastern Caribbean dol- lars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. respect of current invisibles of a personal nature require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. The Ministry of Trade and Consumer Protection is re- sponsible for issuing import and export licenses, but import licenses involving use of official foreign exchange require the endorsement of the Bank of Guyana. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Exchange control applies to all countries, and all currencies other than the Guyana dollar are consid- ered foreign currencies. Authorized payments, in- cluding payments for imports, by residents of Guyana to residents of countries outside Guyana may be made in any foreign currency or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts from countries outside Guyana may be obtained in any foreign currency (in any listed specified currency3 for export proceeds) or in Guyana dollars from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons resident outside Guyana. They may be credited freely with all autho- rized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresi- dents and with transfers from other External Ac- counts; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any purpose to resi- dents of any country, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts may, in principle, be credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., certain capital proceeds); these accounts may be debited for certain authorized pay- ments, including the purchase of approved se- curities. Since mid-1978 Blocked Accounts have been used to hold domestic currency deposits 3Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 202 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 202 GUYANA equivalent in value to pending applications for for- eign exchange. Such deposits carry a market-related interest rate. The Bank of Guyana provides full ex- change rate guarantee for deposits made before the devaluation of January 1984, partial exchange rate guarantee (at the rate of G$5.0 = US$1) for deposits made between January 1984 (after devaluation) and end-January 1987, and no exchange rate guarantee for the deposits made af ter end-1987. Imports and Import Payments All imports from or transiting South Africa are prohibited. Imports of certain products are also pro- hibited from all sources. Import prohibitions are currently applicable only to certain categories of food items. Permissible imports are subject to indi- vidual licensing, but the following commodities are exempted: passengers' baggage, household effects and personal effects, bona fide patterns and sam- ples that have a stipulated f .o .b. value, parcel post items of a certain value imported by individuals, and gifts subject to certain conditions. Effective October 1,1988, import licenses are not required for goods originating and consigned from CARICOM states. Import licenses are granted on a priority basis, as follows: (1) petroleum products; (2) raw materials for the manufac ture of essential items; (3) essential items; (4) raw materials for manufacturers serving the export markets and the essential services in industry; (5) equipment and materials for sawmills in the timber industry; (6) commodities for hatch- eries; (7) spare parts; (8) importation by interna- tional organizations and diplomatic personnel; and (9) drugs. However, an application for an import license will not normally be approved for com- modities when similar ones are produced locally and at reasonable levels to supply domestic needs or sustain exportation. Public sector corporations have a monopoly over the importation of specified commodities from all sources. Import licenses are issued in respect of certain specified commodities only to the govern- ment corporation that has been identified to procure them centrally. When the responsibility of handling imports of any commodity has been given to a sin- gle government agency with a view to eliminating duplication of ordering between such agencies, the relevant licenses are issued only to that corporation. A similar course of action is adopted when stan- dardization of commodities is involved. As a gen- eral rule, licenses are issued only to government corporations for the procurement of supplies for the retail and distributive sectors of the economy on a national, rather than a local, basis. Licenses are not normally made available to private sector concerns or individuals for goods to be disposed of by retail trade, other than to dealers in spare parts. Import licenses continue to be approved for specialized re- quirements of government and private concerns connected with sugar, bauxite, rice, timber, and manufacturing industries, as the case may be. There are no import quotas, but the granting of import licenses is subject in large measure to the availability of foreign exchange. All applications for foreign exchange must be accompanied by a domes- tic currency deposit of equivalent value, to be held in blocked accounts with commercial banks. Com- mercial banks are required to maintain a 100 percent reserve requirement against these deposits at the Bank of Guyana. In general, import transactions not involving use of official foreign exchange (i.e., "no-foreign cur- rency" import transactions) are relatively free; most imports of consumer goods take place on this basis. On June 1,1988, import licenses with respect to no- foreign currency import transactions for the follow- ing goods were abolished: (1) goods imported by individuals for personal use; (2) machinery and equipment to be used in pursuit of self-employ- ment; (3) goods to be used by noncommercial, non- agricultural, nonindustrial, or social organizations. Since September 1988, import licenses for the re- maining categories of no-foreign currency imports are granted automatically if the transactions are bona fide and the documentary requirements are met. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries require approval. The basic annual exchange allocation for tourist travel is C$500 a person and is not cumula- tive. The allocation for education depends on each circumstance and is granted in terms of foreign currency needs. Resident and nonresident travelers are subject on departure to an exit tax of G$50 a person. Persons traveling abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$40; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. The equivalent of up to C$250 may be taken out in actual currency notes as part of the foreign exchange allowance for foreign travel. Non- resident travelers may, within one month of their last entry, freely take out any foreign currency notes declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Sugar may be exported only by the Guyana Sugar Corpo- ration, and bauxite and alumina, only by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA 203 Guyana Mining Enterprise Limited. Certain other exports are also channeled through official agen- cies. Most exports do not require export licenses, but transactions are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in listed specified currencies (see footnote 3), surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all exports exceeding C$200 in value. A foreign exchange retention scheme permits exporters to retain a certain per- centage of export proceeds. The retention ratio is 100 percent for bauxite, 15 percent for sugar and rice, 20 percent for fishing and shrimping sectors and gold mining, and up to 50 percent for manufac- tured exports by the private sector. Retained foreign exchange may be used relatively liberally for im- ports of inputs and external debt servicing by exporters. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see footnote 3) received on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in foreign bank notes; domestic bank notes up to a value of G$40 may be brought in by returning trav- elers only. Capital Private investment, both foreign and domestic, is governed by the Private Investment Code of 1979. Foreign investors must apply to the Bank of Guyana for approved status for new investments at the time of investment in order to be able to repatriate capi- tal. Such approval is normally given for direct in- vestments in new projects that would benefit the balance of payments or the economy of Guyana; "approved status" assures that profits may be remit- ted, and that upon liquidation of the investment, the proceeds, including any capital increments a f ter payment of all taxes, may be repatriated in fu ll in the currency of the original investment. Foreign-based companies and their subsidiaries can borrow in Guyana only with the express approval of the Bank of Guyana. The export of capital by residents is not normally permitted. Listed specified currencies (see foot- note 3) obtained by residents through capital trans- actions must be surrendered to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recip- ient. Emigrants of Guyanese nationality may not transfer abroad any part of their capital assets other, than a settling-in allowance of C$250 for each mem- ber of a family unit; emigrants of foreign nationality may export all declared capital assets, an amount of G$24,000 a family unit at the time of emigration, and G$17,300 in each successive calendar year. Borrowing from nonresidents requires exchange control approval. However, publicly owned enter- prises are encouraged to borrow abroad for the fi- nancing of specific projects and in some instances for working capital purposes. Since mid-1979 any borrowing by a public sector corporation is subject to prior approval by the Government Debt Committee. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for numismatic purposes, and also jewelry. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, pro- ducers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, at home or abroad, without special permission. Im- ports and exports of gold in any form by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and industrial users require li- censes issued by the Ministry of Trade. Residents traveling abroad are allowed to take out with them jewelry up to a value of G$2,000, G$l,500, and G$500, for women, men, and children under 12 years of age, respectively. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments June 1. The import licensing requirements for goods intended for personal use that would not involve official foreign exchange were abolished. August 32. Certain items were removed from the import prohibition list. September 1. Import licenses for no-foreign cur- rency imports were granted automatically. October 1. The import licensing requirements for goods originating f rom CARICOM countries were abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Haiti is the Haitian Gourde, the parity of which is defined in terms of the SDR, but in such a way as to preserve the relationship of G 5 = US$1. Both the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are G 5 = US$1. The U.S. dollar circulates freely and is generally accepted in Haiti. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies, based on the buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Sales of foreign exchange are subject to an average local tax of 0.03 percent. There are limited forward exchange markets for U.S. dollars operat- ing in the commercial banking sector. Haiti formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 22, 1953. Administration of Control The administration of the foreign exchange sys- tem is under the control of the Bank of the Republic of Haiti (the central bank), and exchange transac- tions are implemented by this Bank and certain commercial banks. The tax code provides for a penalty, payable to the tax authorities, equal to 20 percent of any commercial foreign exchange transaction not conducted through a bank estab- lished in Haiti.1 Aside from this requirement, there is no exchange control, and there are no obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Imports and Import Payments Quantitative restrictions on 76 items, which were lifted on June 23, 1986, were replaced on July 20, 1986 by ad valorem tariffs averaging 20 percent. At the same time, specific tariffs were replaced by ad valorem ones, or existing tariffs were lowered for approximately 300 of the 2,000 tariff positions. Seven products (i.e., beans, maize, millet, rice, sugar, chicken parts, and pork) remain subject to licensing requirements without quantitative restric- tions. By a decree of February 10, 1987, a new tariff structure was introduced that replaced all remain- ing specific duties by ad valorem tariffs and estab- !As of the end of 1988, the tax has not been enforced. lished new tariff rates of between zero and 40 percent, with the exception of five products (rice, maize, millet, flour, and gasoline). Gasoline is sub- ject to a tariff of 57.8 percent, and rice, maize, millet, and flour are subject to a rate of 50 percent. The average tariff rate was set at about 20 percent, with the tariffs on equipment, raw materials, and some inputs set at 10 percent or lower. Pharmaceutical imports are exempt from import duties. As a transitional measure to allow domestic pro- ducers to adapt to the new regime, the previous tariff levels on domestically manufactured goods remained in effect until December 31, 1987. The consular fee of 3 percent, which was formerly pay- able in the country of origin on all imports, except for materials required by certain export industries, is now payable to the customs administration in Haiti. A sales tax of 10 percent is applied on the value of imports. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of agricultural products require prior au- thorization from the Ministry of Commerce and In- dustry. Such authorization is usually granted freely but may be withheld when domestic supplies are low. In accordance with an agreement concluded with the central bank on June 19,1984, commercial banks set aside up to 50 percent of the foreign ex- change proceeds from all exports, which is used to meet oil imports and certain debt-service payments. Exporters are required to negotiate documentary drafts with local commercial banks to ensure the repatriation of their export proceeds. Under a law published on June 4,1984, the customs administra- tion will refuse export approval unless such drafts are cleared by the central bank. A law enacted on August 2,1984 set export duties on light and natural coffee at 19 percent and 24 percent, respectively, and required coffee exporters to declare the volume of their outstanding coffee stock. Coffee export du- ties were eliminated in October 1987. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Resi- dents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 250 on tickets and an airport tax of G 75. They must also buy a G 25,000 travel insurance policy by paying a premium of G 52; diplomats and staff members of international organizations are exempt. 204 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI 205 Capital Capital transfers abroad are not normally permit- ted but imports of capital may be made freely. For- eign investment in Haiti is regulated by the decrees of March 13, 1963, October 8, 1969, and Decem- ber 31, 1984, and requires prior government ap- proval. Permission is normally not granted to non- residents for investments in handicraft industries. Under a decree of April 6,1973, private banks oper- ating in Haiti are required to keep a minimum of 85 percent of their liabilities for local customers in the form of domestic assets. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The Bank of the Republic of Haiti has the exclusive right to purchase gold domes- tically and to export gold in the form of coin, mineral dust, or bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the Bank of the Republic of Haiti; exports require, in addition, prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and In- dustry and the Ministry of Finance, as well as an endorsement by the Ministry of Commerce and In- dustry before customs clearance. However, com- mercial imports of articles containing a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Honduras is the Honduran Lem- pira, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, at L 2 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are L 2.00 and L 2.02, respectively, per US$1. The buying and sell- ing rates for other currencies that are of significance to the foreign trade of Honduras are fixed daily on the basis of the buying and selling rates of the cur- rency concerned against the U.S. dollar in foreign markets. Separate exchange rates arise from an ar- rangement permitting exporters to Costa Rica, El Salvador, and Guatemala to transfer their foreign exchange proceeds to importers at freely negotiated exchange rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On August 19, 1950, Honduras formally notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, beginning on July 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the method of currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Trade transactions with the rest of Central America may be carried out in local currencies, barter and compensation mechanisms, or U.S. dollar proceeds from exports to the rest of the Central American countries. In addition, a bilateral clearinghouse ar- rangement operates for transactions with Guate- mala, under which outstanding balances are re- quired to be settled every two months. The Central Bank of Honduras authorizes imports under this arrangement only when exports to Guatemala have taken place. Trade transactions with Nicaragua are carried out under a bilateral credit agreement. Pay- ments to and receipts from Colombia in respect of merchandise trade and invisibles are settled on a six-month basis in U.S. dollars through a reciprocal credit arrangement between the member Central American central banks and the Bank of the Re- public of Colombia. Payments to and receipts from Mexico in respect of merchandise trade and invis- ibles are settled on a four-month basis in U.S. dol- lars under an agreement between the Central American central banks and the Bank of Mexico. Beginning August 1983, all lempira-denominated payments amounting to at least L 1,500 processed through the Central American Clearing House in respect of trade and trade-related transactions with Mexico, Colombia, arid member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM) re- quire prior authorization from the Central Bank of Honduras. Imports and Import Payments Import permits are required for all imports in excess of L 5,000 and are issued by the External Financing Department of the Central Bank (DERFE). Imports are categorized according to those that must be paid for in cash (mainly nonessential im- ports) and those that can be financed with credit. The purpose of the classification is to discourage the import of luxury goods by denying them foreign credit and limiting their access to domestic credit by setting portfolio ceilings. A priority scheme for the approval of import per- mits has been established on a temporary basis, with the intention of fur ther restraining the demand for nonessential imports; the scheme includes five categories with specified maximum waiting periods in each case. Importers using their own sources of foreign exchange can obtain import permits within five days. However, there is also a list of selected items whose importation is subject to prior approval by the Ministry of Economy before an import permit can be authorized by DERFE, in order to provide protection for domestic industries. Imports may be checked for appropriate pricing, and import pre- payments are subject to certain restrictions regard- ing the means of settlement. Depending on the foreign exchange situation, the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank may subject the allocation of foreign exchange for imported goods and services to a set of policy- determined priorities.1 A guarantee deposit of up to 100 percent may be required against requests to open sight letters of credit for import payments; the deposits are held with commercial banks. Importers are also required to deposit with the Central Bank 1 The Central Bank is authorized to allocate foreign exchange in accordance with the following priorities: external financial pay- ments; essential consumer items; health products; educational materials; fuel and lubricants; raw materials; agricultural and industrial inputs; machinery, equipment, and spare parts; and other goods and services. 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS 207 the lempira equivalent of requests for official for- eign exchange that are not granted within a spec- ified waiting period. A system of "Transferable Certificates of Foreign Exchange" (CETRAS) operates for the purpose of promoting nontraditional exports and encouraging repatriation of proceeds from these exports. Under this system, the commercial banks issue CETRAS to exporters when they sell export proceeds to the banks. The value of CETRAS in relation to the export receipts surrendered is determined by the Central Bank of Honduras according to the value added of each export product. Since August 1988, the pro- portion of CETRAS issued per dollar of foreign ex- change receipts has been set at 40 percent for all nontraditional exports. CETRAS are denominated in lempiras and provide the holder with preferential access to foreign exchange at the official rate. They may be used during the first four months from the day of issuance to register under the system of "own-foreign exchange" imports and to request for- eign exchange at the official rate for payments for imports, services, or other purposes approved by the Central Bank of Honduras. During the subse- quent three-month period, CETRAS may be utilized to purchase foreign exchange for the transactions authorized by the Central Bank. Unutilized CETRAS will lose their value after seven months of issuance. Within the first month from the day of issuance, CETRAS may be transferred once, at a negotiated price, by the original holder. Since September 1988, the commercial banks have been permitted to inter- mediate the sale of CETRAS from exporters to im- porters, for their own account and at their own risk, subject to a 5 percent commission per transaction. Banks are required to post daily the buying and selling rates of CETRAS. Importation of corn, rice, sorghum, beans, and potatoes is the monopoly of the Honduran Institute of Agricultural Marketing (IHMA). Most imports from countries outside the CACM are subject to customs duty. Imports from the CACM are subject to customs duties ranging from zero to 35 percent. Certain goods are subject to a customs surtax of 12 percent of the duty and to a consular charge of 8 percent of the f .o .b. value. In addition, most imports are subject to an import service fee of 5 percent. There is a duty-free zone in Puerto Cortes. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. subject to prior authorization of the External Financ- ing Department of the Central Bank. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered either to the Central Bank or to authorized banks and institu- tions, or be held as dollar-denominated deposits with commercial banks. Subject to prior authoriza- tion by the Central Bank, exporters are allowed to retain up to 60 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds to finance their own imports. The with- drawal of dollar-denominated deposits is subject to compliance with the procedures on the use of for- eign exchange. In general, the surrender of export proceeds must be made within 90 days following the negotiation of export documents. The banks are required to transfer 50 percent of their holdings of foreign exchange proceeds from exports to the Cen- tral Bank. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Honduran Coffee Institute (!HCAFE). Exports of corn, rice, beans, and potatoes are controlled by IHMA, and lumber exports are channeled through the Hondu- ran Forest Development Corporation (COHDEFOR). There is an export tax on bananas, coffee, cattle, meat, sugar, and minerals, and a general export duty of 1 percent of the f .o .b. value of all other export items except bananas, coffee, cattle, meat, sugar, minerals, and nontraditional products. The export promotion law enables nontraditional ex- ports to receive a credit against domestic taxes. CETRAS are made available under a system set up for the purpose of promoting nontraditional exports and encouraging repatriation of proceeds from these exports. (See section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are either subject to a surrender requirement or must be held as dollar- denominated deposits with commercial banks. All purchases of foreign exchange in excess of US$5,000 require prior approval of the Central Bank, and all buyers of foreign exchange are required to file an application stating the purpose for which the funds will be used. Within this limit, persons traveling abroad may purchase foreign currency notes and coins in an amount not exceeding US$100 a person. No restrictions exist on the import of foreign bank notes by travelers. There are delays in the provision of foreign exchange for the transfers of dividends and profits. Exports and Export Proceeds Any agricultural or agro-industrial export with a value exceeding US$5,000 requires a license and is Capital The authorization of the Minister of Finance and approval by the Central Bank are required for all ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 208 HONDURAS activities involving the receipt of foreign exchange and their transfer abroad for purposes of invest- ment in mutual funds, housing developments, real estate, or similar activities. Foreign mutual funds and similar financial institutions require permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or invest- ment abroad. The approval of the Ministry of Fi- nance, the Secretariat of Coordination, Planning, and Budget (SECPLAN), and the Central Bank is required for the public sector to contract any foreign indebtedness, whether for import financing or for other purposes. The contracting of external debt by the private sector requires approval by the Central Bank. External debt contracts must be registered with the Central Bank, which provides foreign ex- change for the servicing of duly registered and ap- proved external debt only. The contracting of exter- nal financing must conform with specified priorities. Sight and term deposits in foreign cur- rency at the banks are subject to a reserve require- ment of 30 percent; the reserve requirement for certificates of deposit of US$25,000 and above is 20 percent, and 15 percent for savings deposits in foreign currency with savings and loan associations. Commercial banks are required to transfer foreign exchange holdings in excess of specified limits to the Central Bank. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Honduras for numismatic purposes. With this ex- ception, residents other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to a tax of 5 percent. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments August 1. The commercial banks were permitted to provide up to US$5,000 per person against CETRA certificates for imports of goods and services with- out prior authorization; previously, the limit was US$2,500. September 1. The commercial banks were permit- ted to intermediate the sale of CETRAS from export- ers to importers, for their own account and at their own risk, subject to a 5 percent commission per transaction. They were required to post daily the buying and selling rates of CETRAS. November 10. The ceiling on foreign exchange al- locations that the commercial banks were permitted to provide against CETRA certificates without prior authorization was reduced to US$2,500, from US$5,000 a person. November 10. The granting of import authoriza- tions for self-financed imports (including CETRA- financed imports), which was previously immedi- ate, was subjected to the same 30-120 days' waiting period as that applied to officially financed imports. Exports and Export Proceeds June 23. The CETRA scheme was broadened to cover all nontraditional exports. August 26. The proportion of CETRAS issued per dollar of foreign exchange receipts was raised from 30 percent to 40 percent for all nontraditional exports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong is the Hong Kong Dollar. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions. Starting on October 17, 1983, certificates of indebtedness de- nominated in Hong Kong dollars and issued by the Government Exchange Fund, which the two note- issuing commercial banks are required to hold as backing for their Hong Kong dollar note issues, are issued only against payment of U.S. dollars at a fixed exchange rate of HK$7.80 - US$1; payments by the Exchange Fund on surrender of certificates of indebtedness to it when the note issue declines are also made in U.S. dollars at the same exchange rate. By arrangement, other licensed banks also pay or receive U.S. dollars at this same rate when they draw bank notes from or surrender them to the note-issuing banks. With these exceptions, the ex- change rate for the Hong Kong dollar is freely deter- mined by supply and demand in the foreign ex- change market, though influenced by the fixed rate that applies to note-issue transactions. The au- thorities do, however, retain a capability to inter- vene in the market. On December 31, 1988, the middle rate in the interbank foreign exchange mar- ket for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, was HK$7.808 = US$1. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The forward exchange markets are operated on pri- vate sector initiatives and the Government has no official role. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. Import and export licensing is carried out mainly by the Director of Trade. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements between residents of Hong Kong and nonresidents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. ^ong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and non- resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free from licensing control, except for certain dutiable commodities, items controlled for health, safety, or security reasons, and textiles that are subject to licensing control for surveillance rea- sons. Imports of rice are subject to a quota system operated by the Department of Trade. With a few exceptions, a trade declaration must be lodged with the Customs and Excise Department within 14 days of importation in respect of each consignment of goods imported into or exported from Hong Kong. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely, at any time, and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for a small number of items to enable Hong Kong to fulfill its international obligations and for health, safety, or security rea- sons. Textiles are also subject to licensing control because of a number of bilateral arrangements with specified countries under which the export of cer- tain textiles is restricted. Export proceeds may be collected at any time and in any currency. They need not be repatriated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or re- ceipts f rom invisibles. Resident and nonresident travelers may freely bring in and take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. A license is required before any com- pany, whether incorporated in Hong Kong or elsewhere, can do banking business in Hong Kong. Subject to certain conditions, an overseas bank can establish a representative office in Hong Kong and may also register a subsidiary as a deposit-taking company. A deposit-taking company may not, however, conduct banking business or use the word "bank" in its title. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 220 HONG KONG Gold There is a free market for gold in which dealings by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted. Im- ports and exports of gold in any form (including finished jewelry) are freely permitted and do not require licenses. Residents may hold gold in any form in Hong Kong or abroad. A gold coin of HK$1,000 is legal tender but does not circulate. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hungary is the Hungarian Fo- rint. The exchange rate of the forint against curren- cies other than those of the member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA)1 and Albania and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is derived on the basis of a weighted basket of ten currencies;2 the weights are adjusted an- nually and reflect the currency composition of Hun- gary's foreign trade turnover (export receipts from and import payments to) with the nonruble cur- rency area. The value of the forint in terms of the basket is adjusted at irregular intervals, notably on the basis of the difference between the domestic and foreign rates of inflation. Exchange rates are quoted on a daily basis by the National Bank of Hungary for 21 convertible curren- cies,3 and the National Bank stands ready to effect transactions in any of these currencies. Buying and selling rates are set with a spread of Vio of 1 percent around the middle rate for each currency.4 Rates for other currencies are based on the quoted rate for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. Rates for cur- rencies included in the basket to which the forint is pegged are based on the day's exchange rates in major international markets. The buying and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dollars on Decem- ber 31,1988 were Ft 52.4845 and Ft 52.5895, respec- tively, per US$1. Forward exchange rates are quoted by the Na- tional Bank of Hungary in respect of 21 officially quoted convertible currencies and convertible currency-based clearing currencies. Forward rates JThe member countries of the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swed- ish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pound, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds ster- ling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and European Currency Units (ECUs). In addition to the above, exchange rates for bank notes and traveler's checks are quoted for Greek drachmas and for traveler's checks, for Yugoslav dinars. 4The spread of 0.2 percent between buying and selling rates applies to spot telegraphic transactions. For checks and bank notes, a 6 percent spread is maintained between buying and selling rates. are determined by adjusting the official spot rates by percentage differentials set for periods of 30, 90, 180, 270, and 360 days. The National Bank buys and sells foreign currencies from and to Hungarian en- terprises having foreign exchange receipts or expen- ditures arising from foreign activities (foreign trade, tourism, transportation, etc.).5 The largest portion of Hungary's trade and finan- cial settlements with the member countries of the CMEA is settled in transferable rubles through the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC), and with Albania, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Re- public, and Democratic Kampuchea in clearing rubles. Official exchange rates for the transferable ruble and the clearing ruble are, in principle, quoted daily by the National Bank, although these rates remain fixed for longer periods. At the end of December 1988, the buying and selling rates for the forint against 1 transferable ruble were Ft 25.9740 and Ft 26.0260, respectively. The same rates applied to the clearing ruble.6 The National Bank also quotes rates of exchange for the forint against the curren- cies of member countries of the CMEA, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. These rates are used for noncommercial settle- ments; for example, international travel, expenses of diplomatic representation, and scholarships7 are based on multilateral agreements or, in some cases, on supplemental bilateral agreements. Administration of Control The authority for enforcement of foreign ex- change regulations is vested in the Minister of Fi- nance. Related functions are exercised by the Minis- ter through the National Bank, except for those functions reserved for the Minister himself or dele- gated to other institutions, such as the Hungarian 5Effective January 1,1989, commercial banks have been autho- rized to quote forward rates for Hungarian enterprises on the basis of the forward quotations of the National Bank of Hungary. The Bank is ready to quote rates for commercial banks up to the amount of their net position arising from the deals of the com- mercial banks with Hungarian enterprises. Forward rates are quoted according to international methods, that is, based on the daily official rates and swap differentials between the Hungarian forint and other currencies. 6On January 1, 1989, the middle exchange rate of the forint against the transferable ruble was adjusted to Ft 29.00. 7A commission of 3 percent applies to purchases from tourists of bank notes in the currencies of member countries of the CMEA. 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 222 HUNGARY Foreign Trade Bank and the Central Corporation of Banking Companies. The National Bank may en- trust other agencies, such as banking institutions and travel agencies, with the performance of spec- ified tasks. The Central European International Bank Ltd., established jointly by the National Bank and Western European and Japanese interests, is exempt from Hungarian foreign exchange regula- tions and restrictions in respect of authorized activities. The regulations governing foreign trade in con- vertible currencies were liberalized in 1988. Since January 1988, all economic organizations in Hung- ary have been entitled to carry out foreign trade activity in convertible currencies after having been registered by the Ministry of Trade. The registration takes place automatically at the request of the organ- ization concerned and on the basis of a declaration by the company that organizational and personnel conditions are fulfilled. If legal requirements are met, the Ministry has no right to reject the registra- tion application, which must be processed within 30 days.8 Each economic unit may be registered as conducting foreign trade activities (export and im- port) in respect of any product and service except for those specified on the negative lists.9 The latter goods and services may be traded only upon formal authorization. Private persons can also be autho- rized to carry out foreign trade activities. Foreign trading rights concerning products on the negative list and for private persons are granted within 60 days. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Hun- gary has multilateral and bilateral payments agree- ments are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agree- ments.10 If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agree- ments, settlement is made in a convertible currency. 8Until the end of November 1988, more than 850 economic entities had been registered, and over 300 private persons were entitled to carry out foreign trade activity. In addition, approvals for ad hoc foreign trade activities were given in more than 1,500 cases during 1988. Effective January 18, 1989, the coverage of the negative lists has been reduced. 10At the end of December 1988, Hungary had bilateral pay- ments agreements with Albania, the People's Republic of China, Colombia, Ecuador, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Re- public, and Democratic Kampuchea. Hungary also had trade agreements with bilateral payments features for certain com- modities with Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan. Except for Albania, the People's Republic of China, the Democratic Nonresident Accounts Nonresident juridical and physical persons may maintain convertible currency accounts at the Na- tional Bank, certain designated offices of the Na- tional Savings Bank, the Foreign Trade Bank, and the General Banking and Trust Co., Ltd.; only rela- tively large amounts may be placed with the Na- tional Bank. The accounts carry tax-free interest, payable in the currency of deposit, and have a guar- antee of repayment but no exchange rate guarantee. Nonresident deposits at the National Bank earn rates of interest set on a competitive basis with those in international markets. Interest rates on nonresi- dent deposits at the National Savings Bank at the end of December 1988 ranged from 1 percent to 16.5 percent a year, depending on the currency and the maturity of the deposit and reflecting the finan- cial market situation. No authorization is required to open such accounts or to draw on them. Unless specifically exempted, payments in forint to nonresidents must be deposited in blocked forint accounts at the General Banking and Trust Com- pany, which also has the authority to disburse funds from these accounts. Approval authority for withdrawals from blocked forint accounts has been delegated to the National Savings Bank for specified uses —for example, living expenses while traveling in Hungary, medical expenses, and certain personal and family-related expenses; approval may be ob- tained on the basis of a verbal declaration. Requests for approval for other uses must be referred to the National Bank. All requests for reasonable purposes are granted. In general, no interest is paid on these accounts. Residents may also open accounts at designated banks and financial institutions either in foreign currencies or in forint convertible into foreign cur- rencies. Foreign exchange earned from creative, in- ventive, or artistic activity (including the royalties of authors, composers, and performing artists), hon- oraria, prizes, and awards, and specified fees may be deposited in these accounts. Effective January 1, 1988, up to 75 percent of income or assets in convert- ible currencies from these sources may be deposited in these accounts. No limits apply to income from these sources earned in the currencies of countries accounting in rubles. In addition, reasonable amounts of savings from per diem payments, wages People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Re- public, and Democratic Kampuchea, settlements under bilateral agreements were in clearing U.S. dollars. Settlements with the People's Republic of China were in clearing Swiss francs; and with Albania, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Democratic Kampuchea, in clearing rubles. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 213 and salaries derived from employment abroad, scholarships, and artistic performances may be de- posited in these accounts. Separate accounts are kept for deposits made in convertible and CMEA currencies. No authorization is required for the use of ac- counts of residents in foreign currencies or in forint convertible into foreign currencies. Withdrawals of convertible currency balances can be made in any convertible or CMEA currency, or in forint. CMEA balances can only be withdrawn in a CMEA cur- rency or in forint. The deposits may be used for foreign travel or to purchase foreign goods through the Konsumex and other specialized shops, or di- rectly from abroad against payment in convertible currencies. Deposits of more than one-year matu- rity earn interest at rates prevailing on international markets. Residents can also hold another category of ac- counts, called BC foreign currency accounts. De- posits in these accounts are limited to transfers from nonresidents to residents for the purpose of financ- ing residents' expenses while traveling abroad. Effective January 1, 1988, deposits of at least six months' maturity earn nontaxable interest at rates prevailing on international markets; charges for ad- ministering the accounts are payable in foreign currency. Imports and Exports All imports and exports are subject to licensing.11 Licenses are issued by the Licensing Department of the Ministry of Trade. No further license from the foreign exchange authority is required for export or import and the performance or use of related services. Import licenses may be global or individual and, unless otherwise specified, are valid until the end of the calendar year for which they are issued. Global licenses allow the transaction to take place with any country for the goods and services specified in the license; such licenses are used primarily for bulk imports of items, such as fertilizer and steel prod- ucts, which are spread over the course of the year. Individual licenses permit transactions to take place only as specified. A fee equivalent to 1 percent of the forint value of licensed imports settled in convert- ible currency is levied. Imports are subject to import 11 Effective January 1, 1989, the import-licensing procedures have been liberalized with a number of products transferred to a positive list that is not subject to a licensing requirement. For the purpose of collecting statistical data only, importers of these products are required to report their contracting activities to the Ministry of Trade. duties, a 2 percent customs fee upon customs clear- ance, and a 3 percent statistical fee.12 An advance import deposit scheme for capital goods introduced in 1968 remains in place but has not been activated since 1971. Separately, a forint cover requirement applies to both imports and in- vestment financing and is to be deposited at the respective commercial bank in advance. Every five days commercial banks place the forint deposit with the National Bank, which effects payments for im- ports. In the case of imports, the importer is re- quired to deposit the forint equivalent of the value of the letter of credit in a blocked non-interest- bearing account at the respective commercial bank when opening a letter of credit. When importing on behalf of other end-users, foreign trade organiza- tions can obtain payment from the end-user up to a maximum of 15 days before the due date for pay- ment by the latter. The due date for payment can relate either to the date when a letter of credit is to be opened or, for imports against documents of acceptance, to the date of payment. In the case of investment financing, a letter from the respective commercial bank confirming that financing for the project has been secured in full is required before spending can be initiated. The related financing is frozen in a non-interest-bearing account at the time the letter is issued by the respective commercial bank. In the case of imported capital goods, the letter must be submitted to the licensing authority before the import license is issued. Apart from the import of consumer goods settled in convertible currencies, the licensing of imports was quasi-automatic and was used essentially for the purpose of ensuring that only authorized enter- prises engaged in international trade. Beginning in September 1982, imports of several, mainly pri- mary, products were made subject to quotas. In addition, the regime for imports settled in the con- vertible currencies was applied more restrictively: imports of capital goods, other imports by large and frequent importers in excess of specified quarterly limits, and all imports by other importers were sub- ject to individual approval on the basis of the avail- ability of foreign exchange. These restrictions were gradually lifted during the course of 1983 and 1984; by the end of 1984, the quasi-automatic licensing system in effect before September 1982 had been fully restored. Imports of consumer goods settled in convertible currencies are subject to a global quota, the dollar value of which is published annually in the Foreign Trade Gazette. The value of the quota for 12 Before April 1, 1988, the customs fee was 4 percent and the statistical fee was 5 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 214 HUNGARY 1988 was set at US$170 million.13 Licenses against the quota are granted on an order-of-arrival basis, and unused allocations are not automatically added to the quota for the next year. Settlement in foreign exchange is authorized and effected upon receipt, and according to the terms, of valid documents for settlement. Ex post verification of compliance with the terms of the license is made by the foreign exchange authority twice a year. Cer- tain imports are prohibited for sanitary, security, and other noneconomic reasons. Hungary has been a member of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) since 1973. As part of the Multilateral Trade Negotiations (MTN), the arithmetic average tariff level applied on a most-favored-nation basis was reduced from 24.9 percent in 1979 to 16.1 percent as from Jan- uary 1, 1987. Imports from the least-developed countries are duty free. In general, returning Hungarian travelers may import, free of customs duty, goods for noncom- mercial use up to a value of Ft 10,000. Returning residents may import, free of customs duty, goods up to a value equivalent to 40 percent of their earn- ings while stationed abroad for more than one year. Border trade is conducted on the basis of inter- governmental agreements. Certain exports are pro- hibited for sanitary, security, and other non- economic reasons. An export subsidy may be applied to exports of agricultural products and pro- cessed foods settled in convertible currencies, amounting to not more than 28 percent of the value of the agricultural raw material content of these exports. The tax refund and the subsidy are calcu- lated on the basis of the customs invoice value. Most trade with member countries of the CMEA, Albania, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Republic, and Democratic Kam- puchea is conducted under bilateral agreements. Trade within this framework takes place at prices fixed in the annual bilateral agreements on the basis of quotas representing delivery obligations, with determined conditions of delivery. Subsidies may be paid to compensate exporting enterprises for losses incurred if such exports are required for fulfillment of the obligations of the agreement. All foreign assets and currencies must be de- clared and all foreign exchange assets must be sold to the National Bank of Hungary, unless otherwise exempted. Declaration must be made within eight days, but the length of time allowed for repatriation depends on the nature of the case. The Foreign Trade Bank is generally exempt from the obligation to surrender its foreign exchange assets to the Na- tional Bank. The National Savings Bank and the General Banking and Trust Company are exempt from the surrender requirement in certain cases; specific exemptions for individuals are granted in respect of gifts received while traveling and used to cover living and shopping expenses while abroad, as well as for wages and salaries earned while work- ing abroad with official permission, or from scholar- ships received from nonresidents. Receipts of for- eign currency not exceeding Ft 2,000 (in bank notes only) a person are also generally exempt from the surrender requirement.14 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise transactions, including transportation and advertis- ing, are freely granted. Generally, other invisible transactions exceeding Ft 5,000 require general or individual authorization by either the Ministry of Finance or other competent authority. Foreign ex- change for related payments is made available auto- matically once the transaction has been authorized. Budgetary or social institutions may obtain gen- eral authorizations for transactions up to specified amounts in connection with their own activities. General authorization up to specified amounts or proportions of turnover is given to enterprises en- gaging in foreign economic activities for the pur- pose of defraying expenses other than those directly related to trade. Such authorizations relate to ex- penses for travel and other expenses, such as the maintenance of foreign representation and related personnel expenses. Compliance with the condi- tions of the general authorizations is reviewed on an ex post basis by the Ministry of Finance. Travel regulations were changed on January 1, 1988. All Hungarian citizens were permitted to ob- tain passports valid for five years for travel to all countries without indicating the purpose of travel or being subject to a limitation on the frequency of travel. The conditions of travel for countries outside the CMEA area are a valid passport and convertible foreign currency holdings of at least Ft 3,000 in value obtained from legal sources.15 Legal sources are allowances obtained from the National Bank and foreign exchange withdrawn from residents' for- eign currency accounts; the foreign exchange al- lowance of up to Ft 2,000, which can be held without 13The quota for 1989, which covers a smaller group of goods, has been set at US$200 million. 14Effective January 1,1989, this limit was increased to Ft 4,000. 15Effective October 1, 1988, the requirement of convertible currency holdings was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 215 special permission, does not qualify as a legal source but may be taken out of the country. Foreign exchange allowances for travel by pass- port holders over 14 years of age may be obtained in convertible currencies subject to an individual al- lowance totaling Ft 20,000 for any three-year period; they may be obtained in part during the three-year period. For those travelers who had exhausted their allowance at the beginning of 1988, additional en- titlements of Ft 3,000 a year were made available for 1988-89. Users of the tourist allowances (both Ft 20,000 and Ft 3,000) may purchase railway tickets up to the value of Ft 13,800 during any three-year period as a special allowance or buy foreign cur- rency up to the value of Ft 6,400 for purchasing fuel. Should the value of a given railway ticket exceed Ft 13,800, the ticket may be purchased once in the three-year period, provided that no other utilization of the travel allowance has been made earlier during this period. Tickets for the international bus lines operated by Hungary, flights by Malev or other airlines participating in a pooling arrangement with Malev, hydro-plane to and from Vienna, and rail- way travel for the segment within Hungary are not covered by the special travel allowance. However, travelers who use convertible currency from sources other than the tourist allowance provided by the National Bank may purchase these tickets in forint without the value being counted against the use of the travel allowance. Any other transportation ex- penses must be covered by the traveler's own for- eign exchange resources. For official and business travel, separate al- lowances are established by the Ministry of Finance for living expenses and accommodation. Limits for living expenses are applied strictly, while accom- modation allowances are applied more flexibly to reflect actual reasonable costs. Compliance with these limits is administered by the enterprises or institutions themselves within their allocated global foreign exchange quotas and is reviewed, on an ex post basis, by the Ministry of Finance. Convertible currencies not spent while traveling abroad and brought back to Hungary must be re- converted into forint with the exception of Ft 2,000 a person, which is generally exempt from the sur- render requirement. Such reconversions, as well as return of unused railway tickets, are counted to- ward the tourist and travel allowances to be avail- able for subsequent trips. No minimum spending or conversion require- ment applies to nonresident travelers to Hungary. For travel between Hungary and Poland and be- tween Hungary and Czechoslovakia, travelers are required to have in their possession specific mini- mum amounts of the currency of their country of destination.16 Nonresidents may take out of the country foreign exchange assets and economic as- sets, in addition to their personal effects, without a license from the foreign exchange authority, pro- vided that they have filled out a "Certified Declara- tion on Brought-In Assets" on arrival. In addition, nonresidents may not take out of the country arti- cles exceeding the value of Ft 3,00017 (up to Ft 1,000 an article). Within the same overall limits, nonresi- dents from countries with which an agreement is in force for the reciprocal exchange of currencies (CMEA members, except Cuba and Viet Nam) may take out of the country gifts up to Ft 300 a person, as well as purchased articles up to 50 percent of the amount brought into Hungary under the certifica- tion of the nonresident's foreign exchange au- thority. However, nonresidents may take out freely articles bought in shops designated for sales in con- vertible currencies. Residents may, without a license from the foreign exchange authority, bring into or take out of the country domestic currency in an amount not ex- ceeding Ft 400 a person, in denominations not ex- ceeding Ft 100; the corresponding limit for nonresi- dents is Ft 100 per person. Limits of Ft 50 a person apply to both residents and nonresidents, not to exceed Ft 200 a month, in the case of border-zone traffic. Special exchange regulations apply to travel to CMEA countries as follows: in addition to the Ft 400 that may be taken out of the country in forint and converted at the travel destination, residents travel- ing to CMEA countries are entitled to unlimited purchases of traveler's checks and bank notes of the country of destination. All conversions are effected at the rate of exchange quoted by the National Bank for the relevant currency. A 4.5 percent commission is applied at the time of conversion. By multilateral agreement, no reconversion of fo- rint acquired by CMEA tourists into their own na- tional currency is allowed. Tourists from the con- vertible currency area can reconvert up to the equivalent of US$100, provided that the reconver- sion is for not more than half of the amount orig- inally converted into forint. No foreign exchange is made available for study abroad. Students' living expenses and tuition fees while abroad must be covered by scholarships or financial support from nonresidents. Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Hungary, other 16Effective January 1, 1989, this requirement was abolished with respect to travel between Hungary and Czechoslovakia. 17In border traff ic, the value may not exceed Ft 200 a month unless otherwise authorized under international agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 216 HUNGARY than those employed in joint ventures, are deter- mined on the basis of agreements between domestic and foreign institutions or enterprises. Nonresident employees of joint ventures may transfer abroad up to 50 percent of their income. Twenty percent of wages earned by Hungarian private citizens work- ing abroad must be transferred to Hungary and converted into forint. Capital All foreign borrowing, excluding foreign borrow- ing on the basis of intergovernmental agreements, requires the approval of the National Bank. This approval is given only in exceptional circum- stances —for example, when credits on favorable terms are guaranteed by the government of the exporter or when bankers' acceptances are provided on favorable terms. The requirements of the econ- omy for foreign credit are met through direct for- eign borrowing by the National Bank; the aim is to prevent Hungarian enterprises from circumventing the regulations of domestic credit policy by means of foreign resources. Directives for extending short-term commercial credits in connection with foreign trade activities have been established jointly by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Foreign Trade, and the President of the National Bank. No license from the foreign exchange authority is required for commer- cial credits in compliance with the directives. These credits are refinanced by the National Bank from its own resources. Foreign investment in the form of joint ventures with Hungarian enterprises may be established, subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance. Joint ventures may also be established in duty-free zones. In both cases the joint venture is considered as a Hungarian legal entity, but those in duty-free zones are not subject to several regulations. Foreign participation is limited in general to 49 percent, but a higher proportion may be allowed in the banking and service sectors.18 In other sectors, foreign ma- jority requires special permission of the Minister of Finance. Machines and equipment, technical know- how, and patents may qualify as part of foreign investment. The profit tax rate for joint ventures in the production sphere and in the hotel building and hotel trade is 20 percent in the first five years of operation and 30 percent thereafter, provided that the equity capital exceeds Ft 25 million and the 18Effective January 1,1989, the licensing requirement has been abolished for jo int ventures in which foreign participation does not exceed 50 percent; foreign participation up to 100 percent may also be allowed subject to approval. foreign partner's ownership exceeds 30 percent; this compares with a generally applied profit tax rate of 40 percent. The reinvestment of profits is encouraged by a profit tax cut of 75 percent if all profit is reinvested, and 50 percent if one half is reinvested. Joint ventures in preferred lines of pro- duction are exempted from the profit tax for five years and pay 20 percent thereafter. Customs duties on real assets brought into joint ventures can be deferred for five years. Guarantee is given for the transfer of the foreign investors' share of profits or, in the case of liquidation of the joint venture, of the invested capital. In addition, a guarantee may be obtained from the National Bank covering losses on invested assets as a result of state measures, or from Hungarian banking institutions covering the fulfill- ment of obligations of the Hungarian partner. Foreign investment by resident economic organi- zations, either by establishing subsidiaries or affili- ates or by acquiring an interest in a foreign enter- prise, is subject to the approval of the head of the competent sectoral authority. In addition, approval is required from the Minister of Finance in his ca- pacity as the foreign exchange authority. Except for gifts with a market value of up to Ft 3,000, the transfer of economic assets abroad by residents is subject to licensing administered by the National Bank. Gifts (movable property) from non- residents in excess of Ft 25,000 a person are also subject to licensing. Nonresidents are not generally allowed to acquire real estate, buildings, or other immovable property in Hungary, except in the form of inheritance. Outward capital transfers by resident physical persons are not generally approved. For certain es- tablished categories, such as inheritances, transfers may be authorized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other countries, subject to the ap- proval of the National Bank of Hungary. Emigrants may take out of the country up to Ft 60,000 an adult and Ft 30,000 a child, silver ob- jects weighing no more than 1 kilogram, and gold and jewelry considered to be personal effects. Other assets of emigrants, as well as the assets of nonresi- dents, are held either in the care of a person desig- nated by the nonresident owner or, in the case of financial assets, in a nonresident blocked forint ac- count or blocked deposit. Gold All trade in gold and gold objects is subject to the authority of the National Bank and in concurrence with the competent authority in the case of indus- trial and artistic uses. All ingots and gold coins, except for one piece a person of every kind of gold ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY 217 coin minted prior to 1945, must be offered to the National Bank for sale. Except for transactions with enterprises specifically authorized to transact in gold, all transactions in gold are subject to licensing administered by the National Bank. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The buying and selling rates of the forint against the transferable ruble were revalued to Ft 25.9740 and Ft 26.0260, respectively. July 18. The external value of the forint was de- valued by 6 percent against the basket of convertible currencies. Administration of Control January 1. New legislation on foreign trading rights in convertible currencies came into effect. Under this legislation, every economic organization in Hungary was entitled to carry out all trade ac- tivity (except for products on the negative list) af ter registration. April 1. The Ministry of Trade was established through the merger of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, the Ministry of Domestic Trade, and the Sec- retariat of International Economic Relations. Nonresident Accounts January 1. The maximum proportion of income in convertible currencies, earned by residents from specified activities, that may be deposited in foreign currency accounts was increased from 50 percent to 75 percent. January 1. The regulations governing foreign cur- rency accounts were amended to permit the earning of interest (at rates prevailing on international mar- kets) on "BC accounts" of at least six months' matu- rity. Charges for administering the accounts must be paid in foreign currencies. March 31. The three-month period requirement during which residents can declare, without legal sanctions, convertible currency holdings originating from nonspecified sources was abolished. Seventy- five percent of these holdings may be deposited in a special travel account in foreign exchange, with ma- turities of at least six months and interest earnings at international rates. The remaining amounts were required to be converted into forint at the official rate. October 1. Foreign currency deposits on BC ac- counts and deposits on special travel accounts of residents were allowed to be combined. Foreign currency deposits on the combined account must be used according to the conditions applicable to BC accounts.- October 4. The minimum spending requirements applicable to visitors from Yugoslavia (Ft 760 a trip and Ft 380 for residents of the border area) were eliminated. Imports and Import Payments April 1. The customs clearance fee was reduced from 4 percent to 2 percent, and the statistical fee was reduced from 5 percent to 3 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The 6 percent tax refund on exports settled in convertible currencies was abolished. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles January 1. All Hungarian citizens were granted the right to obtain passports valid for five years for travel to all countries, without indicating the pur- pose of the travel or without restriction on the fre- quency of travel. Persons over 14 years of age may purchase convertible foreign exchange in an amount equivalent to Ft 20,000 in any three-year period, and a portion of this amount may be pur- chased at any time during the three-year period. All travelers to countries outside the CMEA and Yugoslavia must possess convertible foreign ex- change equivalent to at least Ft 3,000 from a legal source. (Legal sources are allowances obtained from the National Bank, and foreign exchange with- drawn from a resident's account, from a BC ac- count, or from the special travel account; funds from these sources may be combined.) Users of the tourist allowance may purchase railway tickets up to the value of Ft 13,000 during any three-year period as an additional travel allowance. They may also obtain foreign currency up to the equivalent of Ft 6,000 to purchase fuel. January 1. The regulations governing allowances for travel to CMEA countries were changed to en- able travelers to purchase traveler's checks and bank notes of the country of destination without restriction, in addition to Ft 400, which may be taken out for conversion at destination. July 19. Travel allowances in convertible currency were raised to Ft 20,200 for adults and to Ft 3,200 for children under 14 years of age, and allowances for purchases of railway tickets and fuel were increased to Ft 13,800 and Ft 6,400, respectively. October 1. The requirement that persons traveling outside the CMEA countries must possess convert- ible currency holdings of at least Ft 3,000 obtained from legal sources was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic Krona, the exchange rate of which is determined on the basis of a trade-weighted basket of currencies. There is no organized foreign exchange market in Iceland, and official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the principal trading and reserve cur- rency, are quoted by the Central Bank of Iceland. These rates are adjusted from time to time. On De- cember 30, 1988, the buying and selling rates were ISK 46.16 and ISK 46.28, respectively, per US$1.1 Rates for other currencies2 are based on the official rates for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. The banks are permitted to carry out exchange transac- tions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Iceland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from September 19, 1983. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce, after consulting with the Central Bank, has the ultimate responsibility for matters concerning import and export3 regulations and payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and of exchange control, including cap- ital controls; it is also responsible for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents from commer- cial transactions is surrendered to authorized banks and that such foreign exchange is disposed of as authorized. Three commercial banks (the National Bank of Iceland, the Fisheries Bank of Iceland, and the Agricultural Bank of Iceland), previously the only fully authorized banks, were joined in 1984 1 Effective January 3, 1989, the external value of the Icelandic kr6na was devalued by 4.9 percent against the basket, and the Central Bank was authorized to fix the daily rate of the krona within a limit of 1.25 percent on either side of its effective basket rate. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Effective January 1, 1988, matters concerning exports were transferred from the Ministry of Commerce to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. and 1985 by private banks and the major savings banks. Prescription of Currency All exchange receipts must be obtained in con- vertible currencies. Settlements with countries whose currencies are usually tied to the U.S. dollar, and with several other countries in Eastern and Southern Europe, as well as outside Europe, are made in U.S. dollars. Settlements with countries of the former Sterling Area and some other countries are made in sterling; and those with other countries are made in their respective currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident krona accounts with the authorized banks: Foreign Ac- counts and Special Accounts. The opening of non- resident accounts requires individual approval. Foreign Accounts may be credited with the pro- ceeds from the sale of foreign currency to banks and with authorized payments due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used freely for payments to residents and may, without a license, be converted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are, in practice, seldom used, pay- ments for international transactions generally being made in U.S. dollars, sterling, or other convertible currencies.4 Special Accounts in kronur or foreign currency may be opened by agreement with an Icelandic bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely with approved pay- ments from residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not on the restricted list may be im- ported freely without an import license from any 4Residents who hold foreign currency that they are not re- quired to sell to authorized dealers may open Foreign Accounts with Icelandic banks. Exporters can similarly deposit, up to six months, foreign exchange proceeds in identical accounts to meet foreign exchange outlays in their business. Such accounts, de- nominated in Danish kroner, deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, may be credited with authorized receipts in foreign currencies and may be debited for authorized payments in foreign currencies. 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 219 country; most imports are liberalized. The main commodities on the restricted list are petroleum products, certain agricultural goods, and specified brooms and brushes. Certain imports, including fertilizers, tobacco, matches, and alcoholic bev- erages, can be ordered freely but admitted only under state-trading arrangements. Some fresh veg- etables, potatoes, and flowers are subject to periodic import control. For imports from all sources, where a license is required, a fee of 1 percent is assessed on the krona value of the import license when the license is is- sued. Petroleum products are subject to licensing, but no fee is assessed. Importers of goods not requiring licenses are not required to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment from abroad, but import documenta- tion must be presented to one of the authorized banks to obtain foreign exchange. For imports that require an individual license, foreign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Importers may freely obtain suppliers' credits for up to three months from the date of shipment ar- rival at an Icelandic port for listed goods corre- sponding to about two thirds of the value of im- ports; the goods not listed are mainly certain building materials, household appliances, motor vehicles for personal use, and nonessential goods. Credits in excess of 3 months and not exceeding 12 months are permitted to be obtained in respect of some categories of goods and materials, for exam- ple, in connection with the import of industrial raw materials for which the production process is lengthy. Foreign credits in excess of 12 months are subject to rules issued by the Ministry of Com- merce. Import documentation on credit terms must be presented to one of the banks at the same time as customs clearance.5 Automobiles are subject to a special import tax ranging between zero and 32 percent, depending on the weight of the vehicle or the engine capacity. Buses, heavy trucks, ambulances, and public ser- vice vehicles are exempt. Certain nonessential goods, whether of imported or of domestic origin, are subject to a special excise tax of 24 percent or 30 percent, ad valorem. A specific import tax applies to wines and spirits, with the amount of tax dependent on alcohol content and volume. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government payments (such as interest and amortization on ex- ternal loans, expenses of the foreign service, pay- ments to international organizations, payments for postal, telegraphic, and telephone services), for banking commissions, or for bank charges on for- eign exchange transactions. The banks effect payments freely on most trans- actions on the basis of bona fide documents. There is an exchange license fee of 1 percent for all pay- ments for invisibles. The basic foreign exchange allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$2,000 a person for each trip abroad (US$1,000 for each child). Applications for foreign exchange for chartering of ships and aircraft, for major repairs of ships and aircraft, for transactions and transfers in connection with direct insurance, and for insur- ance operations abroad are considered on their merits. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out ISK 14,000 in Icelandic bank notes in any denominations. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of fisheries and agricultural products re- quire licenses issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The shipping documents must be lodged with an Icelandic bank. Exchange receipts accruing from exports must be surrendered within a period of 180 days from shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles of a commercial nature must be surrendered. The owners of Icelan- dic ships and aircraft are permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts from freight, passenger tickets, or other charges and to use them for operat- ing purposes and for purchases of necessities. Ice- landic insurance companies that reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned from premiums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expenditures. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in Icelandic bank notes up to ISK 14,000 in all denominations. Capital 5Effective January 1,1989, all goods may be freely imported on a deferred payment basis up to three months if not guaranteed by a domestic commercial bank, savings bank, insurance com- pany, or a public investment fund. All investments by nonresidents are subject to individual approval. Rules concerning Icelandic joint stock companies, which are laid down in Law No. 32/1978, require the majority of the founders of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 220 ICELAND a joint stock company to have been domiciled in Iceland for the preceding two years. No conditions are imposed with regard to Icelandic nationality of the founders, but the right of foreigners to direct or own shares in joint stock companies is governed by legal provisions that are different for the various types of economic activities. The director or direc- tors of the branch office must be domiciled in Ice- land; and, as a rule, they must be Icelandic citizens. Participation by nonresidents in fishing, power, and mining industries is limited; aluminum plants, which are wholly owned by nonresidents, are a special exception. Non-resident-owned foreign cap- ital entering in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered; nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for such funds, in which case their retransfer abroad is permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender foreign ex- change accruing to them on account of capital trans- actions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, including loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits. The regulations on foreign borrowing, purchase leasing, and financial leasing of capital goods re- quire that 30 percent of the f .o .b. value (effective January 1, 1989, 40 percent) of imports of capital goods be financed domestically; this ratio is 40 per- cent (effective January 1, 1989, 50 percent) if the transaction is guaranteed by a domestic commercial bank, savings bank, insurance company, or a public investment fund. The same requirement for domes- tic financing applies to foreign borrowing by busi- nesses for general purposes. A tax is imposed on foreign loans and lease agreements. The tax rate is 2 percent for agreements with terms of 6 months or less, 4 percent for agreements with terms of be- tween 6 and 12 months, and 6 percent for agree- ments with terms of longer than 12 months. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require individual approval. Direct investments abroad by domestic businesses are permitted for certain pur- poses. Direct investments abroad for the purpose of promoting the marketing of Icelandic products are normally permitted. Portfolio investments abroad by residents are subject to license. Outward trans- fers of inheritances, legacies, and emigrants' assets are subject to license and are allowed up to an an- nual ceiling. Icelandic emigrants may transfer up to ISK 400,000 a person at the time of departure. Half of their holdings, including proceeds of real estate, may be transferred upon presentation of evidence of permanent residency in a foreign country, and the remaining balances, one year thereafter. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported funds; the transfer abroad of the proceeds from their sale requires au- thorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresi- dents must be registered with the Foreign Exchange Control of the Central Bank, and all transactions concerning them are subject to licensing. The im- port and export of securities by residents require central bank approval. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of ISK 100 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, subject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require li- censes issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement During 1988, the Icelandic krona was devalued on three occasions, from ISK 35.60 (buying) and ISK 35.72 (selling) per US$1 on January 1 to ISK 46.16 (buying) and ISK 46.28 (selling) per US$1 on De- cember 30. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The import tariff and excise tax systems were simplified. As a result, the average tariff level was reduced. February 1. Fishing vessels were deleted from the restricted list. Payments for Invisibles June 1. The amount of Icelandic bank notes that residents and nonresidents are allowed to take out was increased from ISK 8,000 to ISK 14,000. Proceeds from Invisibles June 1. The amount of Icelandic bank notes that residents and nonresidents are allowed to bring in was increased from ISK 8,000 to ISK 14,000. Capital March 10. The tax rates on foreign borrowing were doubled to 2 percent, 4 percent, and 6 percent of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 221 loan disbursements for borrowings of less than 6 months, 6-12 months, and over 12 months, respectively. May 20. It was announced that firms in the export and import sectors would be permitted to borrow abroad for financial restructuring. At the same time, the rules governing foreign borrowing by Ice- landic businesses for the purpose of financing in- vestment would be tightened by requiring that 60- 70 percent of the f.o.b. value of imports of capital goods must be financed abroad, rather than 60- 70 percent of the contract value. These changes went into effect on May 24,1988. On December 21, 1988, it was announced that the corresponding ratio on foreign borrowing would be 50-60 percent, effec- tive from January 1, 1989. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of India is the Indian Rupee. Ex- change rates are computed with respect to the value of the rupee, which is determined on the basis of the relationship of the rupee to a weighted basket of currencies of India's major trading partners. India maintains the relationship of the rupee to the basket of currencies within margins of 5 percent of the value adopted as the basis. Exchange rates of the rupee in terms of the pound sterling, the interven- tion currency, are accordingly fixed periodically by the Reserve Bank of India; on December 30, 1988, they were Rs 27.01 buying and Rs 27.09 selling, per £ stg. 1. Exchange rates for spot and forward purchases of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and U.S. dollars are based on the latest available rates and trends in international markets and are announced by the Reserve Bank every day; such rates may be changed at any time if the need arises. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the cross rate of the pound sterling with the Indian rupee. The Re- serve Bank stands ready to purchase currencies of certain member countries1 of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU), deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, spot and for- ward, and to sell spot ACU currencies, pounds ster- ling, and U.S. dollars. The Reserve Bank permits authorized dealers and authorized money changers to fix the floor and ceiling rates for purchases and sales of U.S. dollar and pound sterling notes on the basis of a formula furnished by the Bank with effect from August 1, 1988. The Reserve Bank fixes periodically the "notional" exchange rates for the deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar at which authorized dealers are re- quired to sell to and repurchase from the Reserve Bank receipts/remittances on account of deposits in the Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Account Scheme. For interest payments on these accounts, the Reserve Bank bears the exchange risk. Authorized dealers are permitted to maintain bal- ances and positions in "permitted currencies." Per- mitted currencies are divided into two groups, Bangladesh, Burma, Islamic Republic of Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Although it is not one of the countries specified in this context, Nepal is also a member of the ACU. Group A consisting of 20 listed currencies,2 and Group B consisting of any other foreign currencies that are convertible into any of the permitted cur- rencies in fairly active markets. Authorized dealers are also permitted to maintain abroad balances and positions in ECUs. Authorized dealers are permit- ted to buy and sell spot any permitted currency from and to banks in any currency outside the Bilat- eral Group.3 Authorized dealers are also permitted to buy and sell forward any permitted currency against any other permitted currency. Forward pur- chase or sale of foreign currencies against rupees with banks abroad is prohibited. On December 30, 1988, market rates for telegraphic transfers in New York were US$6.6400 buying (clean) and US$6.6100 selling, per Rs 100; and the Reserve Bank's spot buying rate for U.S. dollars was US$6.6475 and its forward buying rates were US$6.6545, US$6.6300, and US$6.5655, per Rs 100 (for 1, 3, and 12 months' delivery, respectively). The Reserve Bank provides forward cover to au- thorized dealers by purchases of pounds sterling for delivery on any day during the first month, second month, etc., up to 9 months' delivery initially (and extendable up to 12 months), for purchases of U.S. dollars up to 12 months, and of deutsche mark and Japanese yen for delivery on any day during the first month, second month, etc., up to the sixth month. Thus, the forward contracts are on a monthly option basis, i.e., with options to deliver the amount on any day from the first to the last day of the month in which the contract is due for delivery. In addition, the Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. (ECGC) provides protection against exchange fluctuation in respect of deferred receivables from the date of a bid up to 15 years after the award of contract; exchange cover is offered in Australian dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and U.A.E. dirhams. For payments specified in other convertible currencies, cover is provided at the discrection of ECGC. The Reserve Bank also 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Poland, Ro- mania, and U.S.S.R. 222 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 223 purchases the currencies of the ACU member coun- tries listed in footnote 1 from authorized dealers for delivery of up to six months on a monthly option basis. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government, in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of ex- change control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers. All pro- posals for foreign direct investment in India are reviewed by the Foreign Investment Board. Under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, the general or specific approval of the Reserve Bank is necessary for the continuance of commercial, industrial, and trading activities in India of companies incorpo- rated abroad, or with more than 40 percent nonresi- dent interest, or for the establishment by them in India of any branch, office, or other place of busi- ness for carrying out any such activity. Import and export licenses are issued by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the Bilateral Group of countries (see footnote 3) and the External Group of countries (all other countries). Payments to and from the Bilateral Group of countries must be set- tled in Indian rupees through the appropriate clear- ing account. Payments to the External Group of countries may be made in rupees to the account of a resident of any country in the group or in any per- mitted currency.4 4 All remittances by nationals of the People's Republic of China to any country outside India and all remittances to the People's Republic of China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were prohibited with effect from November 3, 1962. Since the resumption of trade between India and the People's Republic of China, remittances arising out of trade transactions are permitted in conformity with exchange control regulations. All non-trade-related transactions with the People's Republic of China or nationals of the People's Republic of China continue to be prohibited, unless generally or specifi- cally authorized. Authorized dealers are permitted to open rupee accounts on their books in the names of their branches or correspondents in the People's Republic of China or Pakistan without prior reference to the Reserve Bank, but should seek direction before opening such accounts in the names of branches of Pakistani or Chinese banks operating outside Pakistan and the People's Republic of China, respectively. Authorized dealers may effect remittances to Pakistan on behalf of private importers as in the case of imports from other countries; they also may effect certain types of personal remittances in accordance with regulations applicable to such remittances; remittances for other purposes require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Receipts from the External Group of countries may be obtained in rupees from the account of a bank situated in any country in the group or in any permitted currency. However, special rules may be applicable in respect of exports under lines of credit extended by the Government of India to the govern- ments of certain foreign countries. In addition, all payments on account of current international trans- actions (other than travel, export, and import trans- actions (1) involving settlement on deferred pay- ment terms, and (2) financed out of loans from international financial institutions under bilateral lines of credit, and imports into Bangladesh under the Wage Earners' Scheme) between India and other members of the ACU (see footnote 1), except Nepal, are required to be settled through the ACU arrangement. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Indians and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals resident in Bhutan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of In- dian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organizations in Bhutan and Nepal, are treated as resident accounts.5 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresi- dent accounts. The treatment of these accounts dis- tinguishes between banks and others. The accounts of banks are classified into two groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescription of currency purposes—that is, the accounts of banks in the Bilateral Group of countries and the accounts of banks in the External Group of countries. Accounts of banks in the External Group of countries may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes; with authorized transfers from the non- resident accounts of persons and firms (including banks), provided that both the transferor and the transferee accounts are of the same country or coun- tries in the External Group; and with proceeds from sales of permitted currencies. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of per- sons and firms (including banks) and transfers to Nonresident (External) Accounts, provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of the same country or of countries in the External Group. The balances in the accounts of banks in countries in the External Group may be converted 5However, residents of Nepal obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 224 INDIA into any permitted currency. All other entries on bank accounts require the prior approval of the Re- serve Bank. Ordinary nonresident accounts of individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; refunds of amounts pre- viously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remit- tances in appropriate foreign currency or transfers from appropriate nonresident banks' rupee ac- counts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); proceeds of foreign exchange tendered by the account holder during a temporary visit to India; proceeds from checks issued by the Life Insurance Corporation in respect of maturity or death claims and the surrender value of policies held by nonresi- dents, provided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an ap- proved manner and that actuarial reserves were held in India; all legitimate dues accruing in India to the account holder, such as pensions, provident funds, gratuities, bonuses from a former employer, income tax refunds, etc.; and proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits during a month does not exceed Rs 4,000 and no individual credit is in excess of Rs 1,500. When the nonresident account holder is an In- dian national or a person of Indian origin, credits on account of withdrawals or loans from, and maturity proceeds of investments in, the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968, rentals from and sale proceeds of real estate owned by the account holder, and maturity proceeds of all types of securities, as well as proceeds from the sale of securities sold on stock exchanges in India and the repurchase price of units issued by the Unit Trust of India, are freely allowed. Indian emigrants may maintain ordinary nonresi- dent accounts, as may overseas corporate bodies or trusts in which at least 60 percent ownership or beneficial interest is held directly or indirectly by nonresident Indians, and provided that the initial deposit for opening such an account by these bodies or trusts is made from remittances abroad or from funds in India otherwise eligible for credit to these accounts. When the account holder is a foreign national of Indian origin, authorized dealers may credit the sale and maturity proceeds of all types of securities and the repurchase price of units, provided that the securities were originally purchased either with funds held in the account or by remittance from abroad, and, in the case of sale proceeds, that the sale was made on a stock exchange. Proceeds from the sale of shares owned by the nonresident account holder, whether he is an Indian national or a foreign national of Indian origin, may be freely credited to his account if the shares were acquired with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Authorized dealers may debit the ordinary rupee accounts of nonresidents for (1) local disbursements other than for payments toward investments in In- dia and booking of international passages; and (2) payments toward investments in Unit Trust of India, National Plan or Savings Certificates, and Securities of the Central or State Government. Nonresident (External) Accounts may be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Indian nationality or origin resident outside India or for overseas companies and partnership firms of which at least 60 percent is owned by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin. In addition to autho- rized dealers holding licenses under the 1973 For- eign Exchange Regulation Act, all state cooperative banks and certain urban cooperative banks and scheduled commercial banks not holding such li- censes have also been permitted by the Reserve Bank to open and maintain nonresident rupee ac- counts. Such accounts may also be opened for eligi- ble persons during temporary visits to India against the tender of foreign currency traveler's checks, notes, or coin. They may be credited with new funds remitted through banking channels from the country of residence of the account holder or from any country in the External Group. They may also be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency traveler's checks, personal checks, and drafts in the name of the account holder, as well as foreign cur- rency notes and coin tendered by the account holder during his stay in India, and also with in- come on authorized investments. The transfer of funds from other Nonresident (External) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts of the same account holder is also allowed. The accounts may be debited for disbursements in India and for transfers abroad. Debits on account for investment in government securities and units of the Unit Trust of India and transfers to other Nonresident (Exter- nal) Accounts of the same account holder are freely allowed. Balances can also be used for purchases of foreign currency or rupee traveler's checks or traveler's let- ters of credit for the use of the account holder, his family and dependents, and for the use of directors and employees in the case of corporate entities; but transfers of funds from an individual account to a similar account of another person are ordinarily not permissible. Investments in the shares of Indian companies or in partnership firms, etc., or in im- movable property can be made with the specific/ general approval of the Reserve Bank. Interest on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 225 deposits in such accounts is exempt from income tax and is transferable. The balances held in such accounts are exempt from the wealth tax. Gifts to close relatives in India from the balances in the accounts are also exempt from the gift tax. These tax exemptions are available only for those accounts maintained by nonresident individuals and not by overseas corporate bodies. Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts de- nominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Indian na- tionality or origin who are resident in the External Group of countries and by overseas companies specified above. These accounts may be credited with amounts received through normal banking channels, including interest, which is free of in- come tax, wealth, and gift tax in respect of accounts maintained by individuals. Balances may be repatri- ated at any time in the currency of denomination, without reference to the Reserve Bank. Balances can also be used for the purposes for which debits to Nonresident (External) Accounts are allowed. Imports and Import Payments The Imports and Exports (Control) Act of 1947 empowers the Central Government to prohibit, re- strict, or otherwise control imports. Under this Act, the Imports (Control) Order, 1955, was issued, which specifies items subject to controls. All im- ports require import licenses or a customs clearance permit unless otherwise exempted.6 Imports of gold, silver, currency notes, bank notes, and coin are controlled by the Reserve Bank of India. Imports from Namibia (South West Africa), Fiji, and South Africa are prohibited. There are two types of actual user licenses: General Currency Area Licenses and Specific Licenses (used for imports from specified countries). There is a further classification of li- censes as follows: Supplementary Licenses, Import Replenishment (REP) Licenses, Capital Goods Li- censes, Advance Licenses, Special Imprest Li- censes, Import/Export Passbook Licenses, Special Imprest Import/Export Passbook Licenses, Imprest Licenses, and Additional Licenses. Licenses issued for capital goods are valid for 2 years, and all other licenses mentioned above are valid for 18 months. The Import Policy for fiscal years 1988/91, which came into effect on April 1, 1988, with its subse- quent amendments, contains the policy governing imports. The import policy divides products into 6The exempted category includes government imports under Open General License, relief supplies, and passenger baggage. three basic categories: consumption goods; raw ma- terials, components, consumables, tools, and spare parts; and capital goods. Imports of consumption goods are prohibited except for certain essential products that are canalized; consumer durable items are also not allowed to be imported except items that can be imported under the personal bag- gage scheme by Indians returning from abroad.7 Imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts for industry are classified into three catego- ries: (1) limited permissible, (2) restricted, and (3) canalized. There is also a list of instruments that are permissible for imports against licenses. All items not included on these lists are freely available for imports under Open General License (OGL). Nonresident Indians returning home for permanent settlement may, during the first 12 months after their return, import all raw mate- rials except restricted (nonpermissible) items and canalized items under OGL, subject to a value limit for the purpose of setting up small industries. Sup- plementary licenses may be obtained in case of need, even for the import of limited permissible items. All licenses to industry are generally issued against free foreign exchange, except for imports from the rupee payment area and from countries that are financed with available credits. Special procedures apply to imports of capital goods. Specified capital goods are restricted, while some capital goods listed may be imported under OGL, subject to certain conditions. For other capital goods, licenses are granted subject to prescribed procedure. In general, licenses are granted after it has been certified that such imports are essential ("essentiality certificate"), unavailable from domes- tic sources ("indigenous angle clearance"), and, where the value of imports exceeds Rs 2.5 million, that the importer has advertised his requirements for a period of 45 days. For 14 industries and projects, capital goods may be imported on the basis of global tenders, whether or not the goods are manufactured in India. However, importers are required to study domestic availability of suitable equipment before calling for tenders. The selection of suppliers on the basis of global tender is subject to scrutiny by a committee headed by the Department of Industrial Develop- ment. For imports of capital equipment for power 7Items that can be imported under the personal baggage scheme include air-conditioner units, refrigerators, deep freez- ers, cooking ranges, washing machines, television sets, tape recorders, record players, movie cameras and projectors, video cassettes, textile fabrics, cigarettes, cigars, and tobacco. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 226 INDIA generation, transmission, and distribution, appli- cants must obtain prior clearance from this commit- tee before calling for global tenders. Subject to specified conditions and relative value restriction, exporters of manufactured goods are entitled to im- port capital goods against their own and acquired Import Replenishment Scheme (REP) licenses with- out an essentiality certificate and without indige- nous angle clearance. Nonresident Indians return- ing home for permanent settlement may import capital goods other than restricted items and certain specified items for the purpose of setting up or investing in an enterprise. Under the REP, import licenses are issued to mer- chant exporters, manufacturer-exporters, export houses, and trading houses, and are freely transfer- able except for cases in which licenses are issued with actual user conditions. Exporters are able to obtain Advance Licenses (under the Duty Exemp- tion Scheme) or Imprest Licenses or Import/Export Passbook Licenses to import inputs required for export products. The imports under the Duty Ex- emption Scheme and the Import/Export Passbook Scheme are duty free. The value of such licenses is debited against the REP entitlement. Registered ex- porters are permitted to obtain REP licenses against export of specified products up to a certain propor- tion of the value of exports; these licenses are valid for importation of certain limited permissible and canalized items necessary for the production of the particular export product. The REP license entitle- ment is increased by 10 percent for exports that are shipped in Indian vessels. Subject to a value limit on individual items, manufacturer-exporters, export houses, and trading houses exporting select prod- ucts of their own manufacture are also allowed to import limited permissible items and canalized items that are related to select products exported or manufactured by them. Where the REP rate is 20 percent or less, import of limited permissible items is available up to 30 percent of the face value of the REP licenses, with a single item limit of Rs 0.15 million. Where the REP rate is more than 20 percent, the import of limited permissible items is allowed up to 25 percent, with a single item limit of Rs 1.5 million. In cases where the REP rate is more than 20 percent and an exporter has exported 50 percent or more of his output of select products with a minimum value of Rs 1.5 million, the import of limited permissible items is allowed up to 25 percent, with a single item value limit up to Rs 0.4 million. Similarly, where the REP rate is 20 percent or more, the import of canalized items is allowed up to 20 percent, subject to a maximum of Rs 0.1 million for each item. The limit is 25 percent when the REP rate is 20 percent or less. The percent- age of admissibility and restriction of the single item value is higher in cases where the export of select products is 25 percent or more of the output. Manufacturer-exporters who have been in pro- duction during the preceding three years and have exported 100 percent of their production of select products during the preceding one year are allowed to import any item in the limited permissible list and in the list of canalized items on Acquired Li- censes, up to the value of REP licenses issued in favor of the manufacturer-exporter. The items al- lowed for import are those that are related to the select products being manufactured and exported or select products proposed to be manufactured and exported. Additional licenses based on net for- eign exchange earnings are also available for trading houses and export houses. Trading houses receive additional licenses at a higher rate if they form longer-term relationships with associate manufac- turers. Small-scale units are given especially liberal treatment in respect of import licenses, and consor- tia of small-scale industries may form export houses. Nonindustrial actual users, such as re- search and development laboratories, scientific or higher educational institutions, and hospitals, are eligible to import their requirements of technical and professional equipment, raw materials, compo- nents, spare parts, or other items (but not office machines and consumer goods) under OGL. When a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on pre- sentation of the exchange control copy of the license and the shipping documents. License holders may make payments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. Contracting of sup- pliers' credits exceeding 180 days and other long- term import credits is subject to prior approval. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be submitted are not normally allowed, with the exception of those with respect to import values of up to US$1,000, but in special cases, for example, imports of machinery and capital goods for which deposits have to be made with overseas manufac- turers, the Reserve Bank grants special authoriza- tion for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. The importation of certain commodities, includ- ing foodgrains, certain oils and fats, a number of pharmaceutical products, natural rubber, raw cot- ton, raw jute, cement, cashew nuts, most fertilizers, most nonferrous metals, and certain categories of steel, is reserved for the Government or state- trading enterprises (i.e., canalized), the most im- portant of which are the State Trading Corporation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 227 (STC), the Jute Corporation of India, the Food Cor- poration of India, the Steel Authority of India, Ltd. (SAIL), and the Minerals and Metals Trading Cor- poration. Bulk imports of certain raw materials that are not reserved for the public sector may also be arranged by state agencies, under the Industrial Raw Materials Assistance Center (!RMAC) facility. In addition to any applicable import duty, imports are subject to an auxiliary duty of up to 40 percent ad valorem, which was raised to 45 percent ad val- orem with effect from September 20, 1987. Among the exemptions are foodgrains, raw cotton, and books. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles re- quire approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, mainly for expenses inci- dental to trade transactions and transfers of recur- ring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to foreign nationals not permanently resi- dent in India are to be paid only in foreign currency; payment in rupees may be made only on annuities issued against payment from recognized superan- nuation or pension funds; Indian residents are pro- hibited from taking out life insurance policies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising from the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Remittances of dividends by Indian companies to their nonresident shareholders do not require prior Reserve Bank ap- proval, provided that certain conditions are met. Otherwise, there are no restrictions on the remit- tance of profits, dividends, and interest to benefici- aries permanently resident outside India, provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. Foreign nationals temporarily resident in India on account of their employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, for the support of their fam- ilies, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, other than nationals of the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, and South Africa, up to 50 percent of net income. Requests for the remittance of larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Re- serve Bank. Under the Foreign Travel Scheme (FTS) of 1970, resident Indian citizens are permitted to travel abroad without "P" (permission) form formalities to any country (other than Bhutan, Nepal, and the countries covered by the Neighborhood Trade Scheme (NTS)), once every three calendar years. For determination of eligibility, all foreign travel other than under the FTS is disregarded. A visit under the FTS can be combined with visits for any other purpose except tours for export promotion and other business matters, ha jj pilgrimage, and travel under the NTS. Under the FTS, residents are entitled to foreign exchange up to US$500 or its equivalent and a round-trip ticket, irrespective of the carrier by which they travel. In the case of minor children up to the age of 12, the foreign exchange entitlement is US$250. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may book pas- sages under the FTS for any eligible person; foreign exchange for such persons may be released by any authorized dealer. Travel to Bangladesh, Burma, Malaysia, Mal- dives, Mauritius, Pakistan, Seychelles, and Sri Lanka is governed by the NTS, under which resi- dent Indian citizens visiting neighboring countries are eligible for an exchange allowance of US$250 a person once every three calendar years; this ar- rangement cannot be combined with the existing FTS. As in the case of FTS, the foreign exchange entitlement for minor children up to the age of 12 is one half of the normal quota for adults. Persons obtaining foreign exchange for travel pur- poses are required to pay, unless they are specifi- cally exempted, a Foreign Exchange Conservation (Travel) Tax at the rate of 15 percent at the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange released to them. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may also book passages for persons going abroad with or without an allocation of for- eign exchange (other than under the above schemes), subject only to completion of a "P" form in cases where the passage fare is paid in rupees in India. Certain categories of passengers, including persons traveling between India and Nepal by In- dian and Nepalese airlines, deck-class passengers, and employees of airlines and steamship companies traveling abroad on business for their company in one of its carriers are not required to complete a "P" form. Fares for nonresidents' journeys to and from India may be settled, without Reserve Bank ap- proval, in rupees debited to Nonresident (External) Accounts. The export of Indian currency notes and coin, except to Bhutan and Nepal, is in general pro- hibited. The export to Nepal of Indian currency notes in denominations of Rs 100 or higher is also prohibited. However, deck-class passengers to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 228 INDIA Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, ports in certain Mid- dle Eastern countries, and East Africa, and pas- sengers to Bangladesh, Pakistan, or Sri Lanka may each take with them Rs 20 in Indian notes and coin. Exchange bureaus and authorized money changers are permitted to sell foreign currency notes and coin up to the equivalent of Rs 100 to travelers proceed- ing to Bangladesh and up to US$20 or its equivalent to those proceeding to other countries except Bhutan and Nepal. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency that they brought in (and declared on entry if it exceeded US$1,000), less the amounts sold to authorized dealers and authorized money changers in India. Unspent rupee amounts may be reconverted into foreign currency and taken out. There is a foreign exchange allowance of up to US$750 a person for settling-in and for purchase of initial equipment by students going to foreign uni- versities with full bursaries. A Foreign Travel tax at a rate of Rs 100 a passenger is levied on all passengers embarking on an interna- tional journey to any destination other than Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burma, Mal- dives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Passengers to these destinations are required to pay the tax at a rate of Rs 50 a passenger. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for some items, and most commodities may be exported without a li- cense. In respect of controlled commodities,8 no item can normally be exported unless it is covered by a valid license issued by the concerned licensing authority. Exports to Namibia (South West Africa), Fiji, and South Africa are prohibited. Border trade (i.e., frontier trade) between India and the Tibet region of the People's Republic of China is not allowed. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the full export pro- ceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the pro- ceeds of exports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or he is a foreign national or a foreign person of Indian origin, or he (or his foreign-born wife) is not permanently resident in India, and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Export 8The export of certain commodities, including sugar, raw jute, and several categories of steel, is reserved for the state-trading enterprises. proceeds must be surrendered within six months of shipment. Exporters are required to obtain permis- sion from the Reserve Bank of India through autho- rized dealers in the event of nonrealization of export value within the prescribed period. The Reserve Bank of India also administers a scheme under which export of engineering goods (capital goods and consumer durables) is allowed under deferred credit arrangements, permitting realization of ex- port value in installments over a period exceeding six months. Some exports are prohibited,9 and others, namely coffee, black pepper, mica scrap and waste, and hides, skins, and leather, are subject to export duties. Some others, including footwear, roasted and salted peanuts, man-made fibers, and live sheep and goats, are subject to minimum prices. A substantial number of exports, mainly new man- ufactures (such as engineering goods, chemicals, plastic goods, leather goods, sporting goods, ma- rine products, processed food and agricultural products, handicrafts, textiles, and jute and coir products) receive cash compensatory support, im- port duty drawbacks, refund of central excise duty, and exemptions. Bona fide foreign tourists can, with the approval of customs, take out of India articles purchased with foreign exchange or with rupees acquired against foreign exchange without a value limit; silverware of up to Rs 200 a person may also be exported on the same basis, subject to a limit of Rs 400 a family. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered im- mediately on receipt. The import of Indian currency notes and coin is prohibited. However, deck-class passengers from Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, ports in certain Middle Eastern countries, and East Af- rica, and travelers from Pakistan and Sri Lanka may import into India Rs 20 a person against presenta- tion of evidence that they previously had exported this amount from India. Travelers from Burma, other than deck-class passengers, may bring in In- dian currency notes up to Rs 50 an adult and Rs 25 a child between the ages of 12 and 18 years. Travelers from Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities 9Exports that are prohibited include rock crystal, quartz, some varieties of plants and derivatives, all varieties of forestry founda- tion and breeder seeds, tallow fat and/or oil of any animal origin, rough (uncut and unset) precious stones, sugar cane, frogs' legs, jaggery, specified animal skins, and human skeletons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 229 upon arrival if the value of foreign notes, coin, and traveler's checks exceeds US$1,000 or its equivalent. Foreign currency notes may be sold to any autho- rized dealer in foreign exchange or to any autho- rized money changer. Capital There are no restrictions on receipt of inward remittances from any country through authorized dealers in India; subsequent utilization of such funds in India is, however, subject to approval in most cases. Foreign investments, once admitted, are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enter- prises receive. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are utilized for the purchase of rupees from the Reserve Bank or in the interbank market to finance their normal business operations in India; repayment of such borrowings requires the prior approval of the Re- serve Bank and may be effected only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Foreign borrowing by nonbank Indian companies is subject to Reserve Bank approval; permission is granted for any loan that has not been obtained as an official or officially guaranteed credit by the Cen- tral Government on the basis of merits. Reserve Bank permission is required for initiat- ing, expanding, or continuing in India any business activity, holding or acquiring shares of any company carrying on a trading, commercial, or industrial ac- tivity in India by nonresidents, noncitizens, non- bank companies not incorporated under Indian law, and Indian companies with over 40 percent nonresi- dent interest.10 Foreign investment is governed by 10Persons of Indian nationality or origin who are resident abroad may invest freely in any public or private limited com- pany, in any partnership or proprietorship concern, and in in- dustrial, manufacturing, or trade activity (except where the pro- posed investment is in real estate), provided that the funds required are either remitted from abroad through normal bank- ing channels or are drawn from their Nonresident Accounts, provided that an undertaking is given that repatriation of the capital invested or the profits and dividends arising therefrom will not be requested, and provided that overall limits on hold- ings of shares and convertible debentures bought through the stock exchange by nonresident Indians (see below) are adhered to. Overseas companies and partnership firms which are owned by the extent of at least 60 percent by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin are also allowed to invest in any public or private limited companies in accordance with the above provi- sions. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies defined above can use funds derived from fresh remittances or held in their Nonresident (External) or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts to (1) make portfolio investment, with repatriation benefit, up to 1 percent of the capital, provided that their hold- ings of shares and convertible debentures held on either a re- the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act (FERA) of 1973. The Reserve Bank will allow companies hav- ing nonresident interest in excess of 40 percent and up to 74 percent to continue their activities depend- ing on the extent to which the company is engaged in "core" industry or export-oriented production, or in manufacturing activities that require sophisti- cated technology. Foreign companies can retain a 51 percent nonresident equity as long as their com- bined core sector production involving application of sophisticated technology and export production accounts for not less than 60 percent of their annual turnover, with a minimum of 10 percent of exports out of their total annual turnover within a period not exceeding two years from the date of approval by the Reserve Bank. If their combined core sector production, application of sophisticated tech- nology, and export production account for not less than 75 percent of their annual turnover, foreign companies can retain 74 percent nonresident ownership. Companies with exports exceeding 40 percent of the total ex-factory cost of annual production are allowed to operate with 51 percent nonresident eq- uity, and those with export performance exceeding 60 percent of total ex-factory cost of annual produc- tion are eligible to retain foreign equity up to 74 percent. Companies that export 100 percent of production may be wholly owned by nonresidents. Companies engaged predominantly in trading ac- tivities, or not meeting the other criteria listed above, have been required to reduce their foreign shareholding to 40 percent within a specified period, or change their activities to meet the above criteria. Branches of foreign companies other than patriable or nonrepatriable basis do not exceed (a) 5 percent of the paid-up capital of the company concerned, or (b) 5 percent of the total paid-up value of each series of debentures issued by the company concerned; (2) invest freely in National Savings Certifi- cates with full repatriation benefit; (3) invest up to 40 percent of the new equity capital issued by a company (other than an FERA company) setting up industrial manufacturing projects, hospi- tals (including diagnostic centers), hotels of at least three-star category, shipping, software, and oil exploration services with repatriation rights for capital and income, subject to deduction of applicable Indian taxes; and (4) invest up to 74 percent of new investments, including expansion of existing industrial under- takings in specified priority industries, with free repatriation of such investment and income therefrom af ter deduction of appli- cable Indian taxes. Such investments with repatriation benefits can also be made in hospitals and three-, four-, or five-star hotels. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies, as defined above, can also place funds with public limited companies in India as deposits, with fu ll repatriation benefits, provided (1) the deposits are made for a period of three years; (2) the deposits are made in conformity with the prevailing rules and within the limits prescribed for acceptance of deposits by such companies; and (3) the funds are made available by the depositors by remit- tance from abroad or by payment from their Nonresident (Exter- nal) or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts. Special tax concessions are applicable to investments by nonresident Indians. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 230 INDIA airlines, shipping companies, and liaison offices must in all cases become Indian companies. All companies are subject to "dilution" formulas, as follows: companies with foreign direct holdings exceeding 75 percent must raise 40 percent of the estimated cost of expansion through additional eq- uity capital issued to Indians; for companies with foreign holdings above 60 percent but below 75 percent and above 51 percent but below 60 percent, the corresponding equity is permitted in companies engaged predominantly in internal trad- ing and commercial activities. Without the permis- sion of the Reserve Bank, residents are prohibited from lending to, or depositing money with, a non- bank firm or company in which the nonresident interest is more than 40 percent. Noncitizens, non- Indian companies, and nonbank Indian firms with more than 40 percent foreign participation must obtain Reserve Bank permission in order to acquire, hold, transfer, or dispose of immovable property within India (except when a lease for a period of not more than five years is involved). The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is also required for all transfers of shares of Indian companies by nonresidents or foreign nationals to other persons, whether resident or nonresident. However, the sale and transfer of shares of Indian companies through stock ex- changes in India by nonresidents of Indian na- tionality or origin in favor of citizens of India or persons of Indian origin and Indian companies in which nonresident interest does not exceed 40 per- cent do not require the Reserve Bank's clearance, where the proceeds of such shares sold by the trans- feror are credited to his ordinary nonresident rupee account with a bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange in India without a right of repatriation outside India. Residents are prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, from engaging in any transaction that increases beyond 49 percent the nonresident share of a business outside India in which the non- resident interest is 49 percent or less; and they are also prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permis- sion, from holding, acquiring, transferring, or dis- posing of immovable property outside India (except where a lease of not more than five years is in- volved). Residents also require Reserve Bank ap- proval to transfer any interest in a business in India to a nonresident, a noncitizen, a nonbank company not incorporated under Indian law, or an Indian company with over 40 percent foreign participation. Furthermore, Reserve Bank approval is required for residents exporting Indian securities and transfer- ring Indian securities to nonresidents. Residents are prohibited, except with central government or Reserve Bank permission, from guaranteeing the obligation of a nonresident or the obligation of a resident in favor of a nonresident, and are also pro- hibited, except with central government permis- sion, from associating with or participating in any business concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects after January 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original invest- ment, may be repatriated at any time. However, Reserve Bank approval must be obtained before effecting a sale that involves repatriation of assets. The proceeds of approved sales are allowed to be remitted in no more than four annual installments. The proceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are kept in a nonresident account. Indian nationals are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In cases of exceptional hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to a reasonable amount in one lump sum at the time of emigration; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income is kept in a nonresident account, and no fur ther remittances, including pensions, if any, are allowed. However, Indian nationals who left the country permanently before the introduction of exchange controls in India (i.e., July 1947, in the case of the erstwhile Sterling Area countries, and September 1939, in the case of other countries) are permitted to transfer abroad capital assets up to the equivalent of Rs 1 million in one lump sum, and the remaining balance in annual installments not exceeding Rs 250,000. Foreign na- tionals who are temporarily resident in India (other than nationals of the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, and South Africa) are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own countries the proceeds from the sale of their invest- ments, subject to a limit of Rs 500,000 for each family at the time of retirement, and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 250,000; in addition, they may transfer all their current remit- table assets in India. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Indian or foreign securities. The acquisition, sale, transfer, export, or other disposal of foreign se- curities requires approval. Residents (other than foreign nationals temporarily but not permanently resident in India and their foreign-born wives also not permanently resident in India) who are private persons are not normally permitted to purchase securities or personal real estate outside India. Foreign-born widows of Indian nationals are per- mitted to transfer abroad their capital assets plus ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 231 current income up to the equivalent of Rs 500,000 in one lump sum, and the remainder in annual install- ments not exceeding Rs 250,000. Transfers abroad of legacies, inheritance, and bequests by persons who never were residents of India are subject to the same limits. Indian nationals and persons of Indian origin holding foreign passports resident abroad and wishing to return to India to secure suitable em- ployment, start a professional practice, or set up small-scale industrial units are, upon application, exempted for a period of five years from the date of their return to India from the requirement that any foreign currency balances in their possession be surrendered within three months of arrival. As an alternative to holding such balances in the form of foreign currency, holders may use the funds for the import of machinery, raw materials, and compo- nents, subject to an import license, or, in small amounts, for personal requirements. Furthermore, they have the option of surrendering their balances immediately, with the right to reacquire them within five years should they decide to return to a foreign country. Balances held in Nonresident (Ex- ternal) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts in India by such persons on the date of their return to India are also eligible for similar retransfer or reconversion facilities. These various facilities are not available in respect of earnings aris- ing from employment abroad with any Indian- owned organization. Foreign nationals in India not permanently residing there are permitted to main- tain foreign currency accounts; this permission is also extended to foreign nationals of Indian origin who have come to India for employment of a spec- ified duration or for an assignment not exceeding three years. Under the Returning Indians Foreign Exchange Entitlement Scheme, persons of Indian nationality or origin returning to India for permanent residence are entitled to avail themselves of foreign exchange to the extent of 50 percent of the amount they brought in on transfer of residence, plus the balance held in their Nonresident (External) Accounts and Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts for cer- tain specified purposes for which exchange is nor- mally not freely available. Persons eligible under the scheme may make use of the exchange facility within a period of ten years of the date of return of the head of the family. Gold Detailed control is exercised over the acquisition, possession, manufacture, and disposal of gold through the Administration of Gold (Control) Act. There is a ban on private possession of primary gold. Although there is no ban on possession of finished articles of gold (including coin) previously declared, there are restrictions on their manufacture and ac- quisition. There is no restriction on the acquisition, disposal, or possession of gold ornaments, except that holdings of such ornaments (which may be of any purity) above specified limits must be declared. The consumption of gold by industrial users is regu- lated through permits and authorizations. Control is exercised over dealers and goldsmiths through a system of licensing. Gold refining is under state management. The Government Mint is licensed to accept tenders of gold for purposes of refining and conversion into standard gold bars. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited; exports of silver bul- lion, sheets, and plates are banned, and exports of products of silver are subject to quota restrictions. With the exception of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, imports of gold in any form by residents other than the monetary au- thorities require special authorization from the Re- serve Bank and are not normally permitted; in cer- tain cases, however, jewelers are permitted to manufacture gold and silver jewelry in bond from imported gold and silver, for export purposes only. Under the Gold Jewelry Export Promotion Re- plenishment Scheme, exporters of ornaments and articles made of gold of not less than 0.5833 fineness are entitled to the replenishment by gold (imported by the State Bank of India and supplied at prices set by the Government) against Release Orders issued by the licensing authorities, provided that they sat- isfy value added and other requirements of the scheme. Special permission for imports of gold and silver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no foreign exchange transaction is involved or the metals are needed for a particular purpose. Spe- cial permission is also granted when the gold or silver is imported for processing and re-export, provided that payment for the import will not be required, that the entire quantity of metal imported will be re-exported in the form of jewelry, and that the value added will be repatriated to India in for- eign exchange through an authorized dealer. Eligi- ble registered exporters are allowed to import gold findings, mountings, etc., and gold of 18 karats and less for export of plain and studded gold jewelry under the advance licensing scheme. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry produced in India for export with a gold value not exceeding 10 percent of total value, and jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, sub- ject to certain monetary limits, are prohibited, unless the export is made by or on behalf of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 232 INDIA monetary authorities. Net export of gold from India is not permitted. Changes During 1988 Administration of Control April 1. Twenty-six items, including cement of all types, cloves, polyester staples and fiber, and caus- tic soda, were permitted to be imported by private sector importers. Imports and Import Payments April 1. Import and Export Policy, April 1988- March 1991 was announced. Three hundred twenty-nine items of intermediate raw materials and components were added to the OGL list (bring- ing the total number to 944). This was mainly an administrative clarification because these items were not previously on the banned, restricted, or limited permissible lists, and in principle could al- ready have been imported without a license. The number of items (particularly in the electronics cate- gory) on the restricted and limited permissible lists was increased to 816. Ninety-nine items of capital goods, mainly ma- chinery for the electronics, silk, tea, leather, sports goods, hand tool, bicycle, and garment industries, were added to the OGL list. As in the past, the placement of these items on the OGL list was ac- companied by import duty reductions, typically from the general machinery rate of 90 percent to around 30 percent. The number of machine tools on the OGL list was reduced. Subsequently, the following changes were intro- duced: (1) with a view to promoting industries with promising export possibilities, import of 27 items of machinery required for the manufacture of bicycles and components thereof, 10 items of textile machin- ery, 1 machinery item each required for the silk industry and for the woolen industry were included under Open General License; (2) the Technical De- velopment Fund, providing for import of machinery and technical know-how, was established to pro- mote technological upgradation and moderniza- tion. The aggregate foreign exchange that can be financed for any unit under the Fund was increased from the U.S. dollar equivalent of Rs 12.5 million a year to Rs 20 million a year; (3) REP and additional licenses issued to export houses and trading houses on their exports were made valid for the import of samples; (4) additional licenses issued to export houses and trading houses before 1988-89 were made freely transferable without Actual User Con- dition; (5) the procedure for the issuance of Inter- mediate Advance licenses and for the execution of the corresponding Bond and Bank Guarantee/Legal Undertaking was simplified; (6) exports of auto- mobiles were made eligible to receive more flexible treatment under the normal REP scheme and the Duty-Free Scheme; and (7) the scope of the Import/ Export Passbook was widened to cover the mer- chant exporters in the garment sector. Payments for Invisibles March 3. Exporters of computer software were made eligible for issue of blanket foreign exchange permits by the Reserve Bank of India for amounts up to 30 percent of the net foreign exchange earned in the previous year, for export promotion purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. Access to duty-free imported inputs, cash compensation for indirect taxes, and duty draw- backs were extended to "indirect" exporters (those who provide tradable inputs into direct exports). The number of products subject to export controls was increased by 69, to 172. Proceeds from Invisibles April 11. The maximum surrender period for for- eign exchange brought back to India by a resident returning from abroad was extended to 90 days from 30 days. Capital July 1. The period during which foreign com- panies that transfer technology to Indian companies without taking an equity position can receive roy- alty payments was extended to seven years from five years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian Rupiah. The exchange value of the rupiah is deter- mined by Bank Indonesia under a system of man- aged float. The U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. On December 31, 1988, the buying and selling rates in the Jakarta Bourse were Rp 1,726.00 and Rp 1,732.00, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for certain other currencies1 are determined on the basis of the rates in the Bourse for the U.S. dollar and rates for the currencies concerned in interna- tional markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In the Bourse, daily calls for exchange are con- ducted under the management of Bank Indonesia. Bidding for exchange is restricted to the authorized foreign exchange banks, nonbank financial insti- tutions, and licensed foreign exchange dealers. Bank Indonesia stands willing to trade unlimited amounts of foreign exchange or rupiah with autho- rized traders at its intervention rates for the day. Bank Indonesia provides to banks and other finan- cial institutions unlimited forward cover in the form of foreign exchange/rupiah swaps at preferential forward premia on foreign exchange to Bank Indo- nesia, matched by a forward purchase at a price more favorable than that ordinarily available from commercial banks. The facility is provided to cover bona fide offshore borrowing only. Since Octo- ber 27, 1988, the minimum premium on official swaps, which was previously set by Bank Indonesia at the fixed rate of 9 percent, has been set on the basis of prevailing market conditions as indicated by the difference between the average domestic de- posit rate and LIBOR. On December 31, 1988, the annual premium on official swaps was 713/ie percent for a 1-month swap; 89/i6 percent for a 1- to 3-month swap; 813/i6 percent for a 3- to 6-month swap; 9Vs percent for a 6- to 12-month swap; and 9Vs percent for a swap exceeding 12 months. Premia on opera- tions with longer maturities are quoted only for the first 12 months. The Government does not make Currencies commonly used in Indonesia's international transactions —that is, Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Sin- gapore dollars, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. any commitment on the size of the premium beyond a 12-month period. Indonesia formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 7, 1988. Administration of Control Administration of the exchange and trade system is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Exchange con- trol is administered by Bank Indonesia and the Min- istry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks and are normally effected in convertible currencies. Indonesia maintains no op- erative bilateral payments agreements. Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by resi- dents or foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiah or foreign currencies with authorized for- eign exchange banks. For exchange control pur- poses, no distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts. However, if the account holder wishes to withdraw funds, a letter must be sent to the bank; no checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers. Only Indonesian nationals can be authorized as im- porters, although foreign investors are permitted to import the items required for their own projects. Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of specified products. Im- ports of secondhand goods may only be in the form of machinery or factory machinery used for produc- ing export products. Certain categories of agri- cultural imports, including d ifferent categories of food, beverages, and fruits, may be imported only by registered importers designated by the Minister of Trade. The procurement policies of companies approved for the importation of fruit, alcoholic bev- erages, and chickens, are evaluated annually by the 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 234 INDONESIA Government, although explicit quantitative restric- tions are not placed on these products. Since November 21, 1988, import controls on 318 products, (i.e., certain chemicals, steel, foods and beverages, textiles, and agriculture products) have been changed, and general importers have been allowed to import 301 of these products. However, the remaining 17 products must still be imported by designated importers, namely, approved importers and producer importers (producers allowed to im- port their inputs for production). The monopoly right of PT Krakatau Steel and PT Tambang Timah for the importation of certain metal industrial prod- ucts has been transferred to general importers and producer importers. Certain textile products may also be imported by general importers. Imports of certain goods remain restricted to ap- proved importers, most of which are state enter- prises. Pertamina has a monopoly on the importa- tion of lubricating oil and lubricating fats, and PT Dahana, on the importation of ammunition, dyna- mite, and explosive gelatin. The monopoly rights of approved importers (sole agents) remain in effect for the importation of certain heavy equipment and motor vehicles, although this right may be trans- ferred to general importers. Certain products are granted preferential duties within the framework of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN). Imports into Indonesia are subject to preship- ment inspection in the exporting country by private international agencies; the inspection cost is borne by the Indonesian Government. Following inspec- tion, these agencies are required to issue a survey report (LKP) specifying the type, quality, quantity, and estimated cost of the goods, the applicable tariff code, freight charges, import duties, and value- added taxes; in the case of imports without a letter of credit, the LKP must be sent to an Indonesian bank designated by the importer, which in turn must send the bill of lading and the LKP to a foreign exchange bank. In the case of imports under letters of credit, the LKP is sent to the correspondent banks, and after payments of duties (which are determined on the declared c . i . f. value or the c .i .f. value as estimated by private international agencies) and taxes to the bank, the importer is given the bill of lading and the validated LKP, which must be presented to customs for release of the shipment. The Directorate General of Customs and Excise does not examine goods that have an LKP, except those that are valued at less than US$5,000 or are suspected to be illegally imported. Imports of PMA (foreign capital investment) and PMDN (domestic capital investment) must have an LKP. Since May 9, 1987 quality control has been imposed on cement- asbestos sheets, dry batteries, steel slabs, low- voltage electric cord, and electric light bulbs. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited, as are exports to all countries of rawhides of cattle, certain categories of unprocessed or low-quality rubber, certain logs and timber, brass and copper scrap (except from Irian Jaya), iron scrap, steel scrap, antiques of cultural value, and raw rattan. Certain producer-exporters of rubber, plywood, and animal feed may issue certificates of quality for their products. Beginning May 15,1987, all exports of woods and wood products must be examined before shipment. Beginning May 18, 1987, exports of sawn-timber and wood products may be conducted only by ap- proved exporters. Since October 6, 1987, the Gov- ernment has reinforced the regulations relating to exports of coffee, which is subject to international quota. Exports of textile products subject to import quotas in the consuming countries may be effected only by approved textile exporters, and exporters may transfer their allocated quotas to other ap- proved exporters through the Commodity Ex- change Board. Since December 23, 1987, exporters are no longer required to obtain an exporter's identi- fication numbers (APE and APET) to carry out ex- port activities. Exporters must possess trade per- mits, or "Surat Izin Usaha" (SIU), which are issued by any government institution. Exports of certain domestically produced com- modities are controlled by a requirement of prior authorization from the Ministry of Trade in order to maintain supplies to meet domestic demand and to encourage domestic processing of certain raw mate- rials.2 Concern with domestic price stability some- times involves suspension of exports of various items on this list. Prior authorization of the Minister of Trade is re- quired for exports of clove seeds, pepper seeds, silver exported by PN Aneka Tambang, and all goods produced from subsidized raw materials. All other commodities may be freely exported by regis- tered private firms and state-trading firms, except for exports of plywood, which need approval from the joint-marketing body for plywood exports. 2Items affected by such controls include logs, fertilizer, ce- ment, construction reinforcements of iron, automobile tires, pa- per, asphalt, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat flour, sugar, maize, soy- beans, rice, copra, coconut oil, palm oil, palm kernel oil, olein, raw rattan, and meat. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 235 There are no restrictions on the type of financial arrangement exporters may use. There is no sur- render requirement for export proceeds. In the cal- culation of export taxes on the principal com- modities other than petroleum and gas, sale prices must not be lower than the "indicative" prices deter- mined periodically by the Minister of Trade. Exports of certain products are subject to an export tax: palm oil, coconut oil, and a few other commodities are subject to a 5 percent tax; the major mineral prod- ucts (excluding bauxite ore and concentrates), to a 10 percent tax; and natural sands, to a 20 percent tax. Exports of certain wood products are subject to an ad valorem export tax. A few products are also subject to an additional export tax, ranging from 0.75 percent to 20.8 percent. Export taxes and additional export surtaxes are collecied by foreign exchange banks and transferred weekly to the account of the state general treasurer at Bank Indonesia. For exports based on letters of credit, taxes are settled at foreign exchange banks at the time of negotiation of export bills; for exports without letters of credit, taxes are settled at the time of registration of export notification. For exports with consignment and usance letters of credit, taxes may be collected at the time of receipt of payment from abroad by foreign exchange banks or within 180 days of registration of export notification at the foreign exchange bank. To make available to exporters inputs priced at international levels, a scheme has been set up that permits exporters and suppliers of inputs for ex- porters to bypass the import licensing system and import tariffs or, if they cannot bypass the system, to reclaim import duties; the costs imposed by non- tariff barriers, however, cannot be rebated.3 Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Philippines in exchange for certain eligible goods. In this "border- crossing" trade with Malaysia, the value of import or export transactions must not exceed M$600 for a single trip or M$3,000 a month, whether trans- ported overland or by sea; for the Philippines, the value of imports or exports must not exceed the rupiah or peso equivalent of US$150 for a single trip if transported by seagoing vessel, or US$1,500 if transported by smaller boats. Since January 1982, the Indonesian Government has, at its option, required all foreign firms bidding for government-sponsored construction or procure- ment projects, of which the import component has a value of over Rp 500 million, to agree to fulfill a counterpurchase obligation. Bidders for projects that include counterpurchase requirements must submit with their bids a letter agreeing to purchase and export the equivalent of the contract's value in selected Indonesian products (f .o.b.) during the life of the contract.4 Goods eligible to be used in meet- ing the counterpurchase requirement include agri- cultural products, manufactured and other prod- ucts, excluding petroleum, natural gas, and items subject to export quotas. The foreign supplier may fulfill the counterpurchase requirement either di- rectly or through a third party, possibly from an- other country that is acceptable to the Indonesian Government. Such an arrangement must meet the condition of "additionally"; i.e., the counter- purchases by the third party have to be in addition to regular exports f rom Indonesia. The purchase of Indonesian products other than oil and natural gas under countertrade arrangements must be shipped regularly and in stages during the validity of the contract on the government procurement, and these shipment obligations have to be completed at the end of such purchasing contract. If, at the end of the completion of the project/implementation of the purchase (government import), the export from In- donesia has not been completed, either partly or entirely, a penalty will be imposed on the winner of the tender or on the party to whom such obligation has been delegated, to the extent of 50 percent of the export value (to date this provision has not been implemented). Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted or subject to control. Pro- ceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign bank notes but only Rp 50,000 in Indonesian 3Under this scheme, exporters are classified as producer- exporters (firms that export at least 65 percent of their total production) or as exporter-producers (firms that export 85 per- cent of their production and producers of textiles in general). Producer-exporters may bring into the country their imports free of licensing restrictions and import duties, but with ex post documentation. If exporter-producers can demonstrate that their output was, or will be, exported or that their output was an input in an exported output, then they can also receive the same permission to import their inputs as producer-exporters. The scheme also allows indirect exporters to reclaim import duties through a duty drawback facility. 4The following are exempted from these requirements: (1) sources of import financing that are derived from soft loans, and loans from the World Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, and the Asian Development Bank; (2) domestic components contained in the contract with the foreign suppliers, such as components of services, goods, and taxes/duties; (3) services that are used by various government agencies related to specific ex- pertise, such as foreign accountants, lawyers, surveyors, consul- tants' services, purchase of technology (patent), etc.; and (4) purchases or imports under the joint-venture system between state companies and foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 236 INDONESIA notes and coin other than gold and silver commem- orative coins (see section on Gold, below). Capital Foreign capital invested in Indonesia is governed primarily by the Foreign Capital Investment Law of January 10, 1967, and subsequently amended by a number of presidential guidelines and decrees. In principle, such investments may be undertaken only through a joint venture with an Indonesian partner. All investments in Indonesia require the approval of the president on the recommendation of the Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM). Enter- prises that are wholly or largely operated in Indo- nesia as separate business units must be incorpo- rated under Indonesian law and must have their domicile in Indonesia. The operating permit for for- eign investment is usually valid for a maximum of 30 years. The obligation of a foreign partner in a joint ven- ture enterprise to divest its shares to 51 percent majority Indonesian ownership within 10 years af- ter the commencement of production has been ex- tended to 15 years. For enterprises with investment of more than US$10 million, those located in one of the ten designated developing provinces, or those exporting more than 65 percent of their production, this 15-year requirement may be extended by an- other 5 years. A foreign joint venture enterprise located in a bonded zone and exporting 100 percent of its pro- duction is allowed to have national share participa- tion of 5 percent. A foreign joint venture enterprise may be treated as a domestic enterprise if 51 percent of it is owned by Indonesian nationals, or if 45 per- cent of it is owned by Indonesian nationals with 20 percent being sold through the stock market. Investment incentives for foreign capital invest- ment in existence before 1984 in the form of tax holidays, investment allowances, loss compensa- tion, and exemptions from dividend taxes have been abolished. The incentives currently applied for for- eign investments are: exemption or relief from im- port duties on capital goods, raw materials, auxili- ary goods, and spare parts; an annual depreciation allowance of 25 percent for fiscal purposes on vir- tually all machinery and other productive capital goods; and deferral of value-added tax on imports of capital goods. All foreign enterprises (PMAs) are eligible to re- ceive customs duty incentives for their imported raw materials needed for two years' production ac- tivity. Raw materials may be imported with no time limit. In addition, an enterprise exporting more than 65 percent of its production is free to hire foreign experts as needed to maintain its export commitments. Managers of representative offices of a foreign company are granted multiple exit and re- entry permits for six months and exempted from the Rp 250,000 departure tax. Investors are granted the right to make capital repatriation, to transfer profits (after settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia), and to make transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia, and in respect of depreciation allowances. The law provides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as investment benefits from tax relief are being received; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. There are no limitations on the remittance to In- donesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or commodities. Both residents and nonresidents may hold foreign currency deposits with foreign ex- change banks. However, foreign exchange banks and nonbank financial institutions are subject to Bank Indonesia directives with respect to borrowing abroad, the acceptance of deposits from nonresi- dents, and the issuance of certificates of deposit to nonresidents. Since October 27, 1988, a 2 percent reserve requirement is applicable to the foreign cur- rency liabilities of foreign exchange banks; no re- serve requirements are applicable to the foreign borrowings of nonbank financial institutions or pri- vate companies. Certain borrowing abroad is sub- ject to clearance by Bank Indonesia, and all foreign borrowing is subject to reporting to Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance.5 The prior approval of the Minister of Finance is required before any public enterprise or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign na- tionality may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securities denominated in rupiah or in for- eign currency. The exploration and development of petroleum resources are governed by the Petroleum Law of 1960. Gold Indonesia has issued two commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely 5On March 25, 1989, Bank Indonesia enacted a measure limit- ing net open foreign exchange to not more than 25 percent of own capital for foreign exchange banks and nonbank financial institutions. Foreign exchange banks' offshore borrowing, which was previously subject to clearance by Bank Indonesia, is no longer limited or regulated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 237 purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indo- nesia. Travelers may freely take out up to Rp 65,000 a person in Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970, and up to Rp 130,000 a person in gold and silver coins issued in October 1974; amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of Bank Indonesia. Gold may be imported free by importers. Imports are subject to an additional levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement May 7. Indonesia formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. October 27. The premium applicable to operations under the official swap facility would be set accord- ing to the difference between the average domestic interest rate and LIBOR for the relevant period. For swap transactions with maturities exceeding 1 year, the premium would be established only for the first 12 months. The Government would not provide any commitment on the size of the premium for the subsequent period. Imports and Import Payments November 21. Import controls were changed for some 318 products, including certain chemicals, steel, food and beverages, textiles, and agricultural products; of these, the Government extended the permit tch import some 301 products to importers holding a general importer license. Before these changes, these products could be imported only by approved importers and by importers using the products directly for production. November 21. Tariff rates on 86 products were re- duced and those on 72 products were increased. Twenty-two products, which were previously sub- ject to specific duties, were made subject to ad val- orem tariffs. Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. Exports of semiprocessed rattan were prohibited. September 20. Exports of chipwood and low-price sawn timber were prohibited. November 21. An imposed quota system on textile exports was introduced, under which quotas are to be redistributed among existing exporters who have taken the initiative in promoting new markets and who have realized high export unit values and to those weaker and newly licensed exporters who may be willing to export to new nonquota markets. Export quotas for rattan carpets were enforced, re- quiring full compliance with registration require- ments. Quotas will be assigned to registered ex- porters for a 12-month period on the basis of export performance during the preceding year. The first quota covering the period July 1,1988-June 30,1989 was based on the export performance during the preceding 24-month period. Capital October 27. The legal reserve requirement for for- eign currency deposits was reduced from 15 percent to 2 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic Republic of Iran is the Iranian Rial, which is pegged to the SDR at Rls 92.300 = SDR 1. The exchange rates are deter- mined daily on the basis of the SDR-rial rate. On December 31, 1988, the official buying and selling rates of Bank Markazi Jomhouri Islami Iran (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar were Rls 68.364 and Rls 68.814, respectively, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in Bank Markazi. All foreign exchange transactions must take place through this Bank or authorized banks. Imports and exports are governed by regulations issued periodically by the Ministry of Commerce after approval by the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Transactions with countries1 having clearing agreements with the Islamic Republic of Iran are conducted through the terms of those agreements. The unit of account of these agreements is usually the U.S. dollar. Settlements with member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) (Bangladesh, Burma, India, Nepal, Pakistan,2 and Sri Lanka) in respect of cur- rent transactions are required to be effected in Asian Monetary Units (AMUs). Final settlement, when necessary, takes place by converting AMUs to an agreed currency. Payments to and from Pakistan and Turkey relating to the exchange of goods and related services (excluding border trade and pe- troleum and petroleum products) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the re- spective central banks in U.S. dollars. Settlements in respect of petroleum and petroleum products and certain services are made through special ac- counts held by the central banks of these three countries. Banking arrangements have been con- cluded with major Western European banks to es- 1 Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Ger- man Democratic Republic, Hungary, Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Poland, Romania, Syrian Arab Republic, U .S .S .R., and Yugoslavia. ^Pakistan, being a member of a separate agreement wttx tue Islamic Republic of Iran, settles its payments through that agree- ment instead of in AMUs. tablish "Special Accounts" for clearing payments related to the sale of crude oil in exchange for pur- chase of a variety of products and raw materials. Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals may maintain rial accounts and foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. The rial funds to be deposited to the rial accounts must have originated through the sale of foreign exchange to the banking system. The foreign cur- rencies to be deposited must have originated abroad. The balance of the rial accounts may be used only in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Imports and Import Payments All imports into the Islamic Republic of Iran are required to be authorized by the Ministry of Com- merce (except for special military and pharmaceuti- cal goods, souvenirs, and gifts brought in by incom- ing travelers, which do not require authorization) before being registered by authorized banks. Im- ports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. All imports require the prior approval of the pro- curement and distribution centers, except for goods imported by the Ministry of Defense and certain other military goods. The import policy is re- examined periodically at the end of each Iranian calendar year (commencing March 21). New export- import regulations, effective for the next year, are published by the Ministry of Commerce. The reg- ulations distinguish between "authorized," "unau- thorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Authorized" goods are those whose import and export, with due consideration for the regulations, are permitted. "Unauthorized" goods are those whose import and export are temporarily prohibited by the Govern- ment or are contingent on the fulfillment of certain requirements (as explained in the relative tariff). "Prohibited" goods apply to those whose transac- tions are forbidden by Islamic Sharia or by the law. At the time of registration of imports, a registra- tion fee of 5 percent of the value of the order, calcu- lated on a c . i .f. basis, is collected by authorized banks. At the time of registration of some goods, importers must deposit with Bank Markazi, through an authorized bank, 15 percent of the c.i.f. value of the goods. Most food items and certain other commodities are exempt from the registration deposit. The registration deposit is refundable upon 238 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 239 presentation of the customs clearance certificate af- ter the goods have been cleared through customs, or if the order is canceled. If less than 90 percent of the registration value is used, the amount of refund of registration fee will be in proportion to the un- used amount of the registered order. Bank Markazi may permit, when necessary, the shifting of imports from the category in which a registration deposit is required to the exempt category, and vice versa. Most imports are subject to commercial benefit taxes, which are either specific or ad valorem and are imposed in addition to any applicable customs duty. Monopoly taxes, if any, are included in the commercial benefit taxes. The authorities specify in the export-import regulations the commercial bene- fit taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to customs before customs clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon presentation of shipping documents endorsed by an authorized bank and the permission of the relative procure- ment and distribution center (this permit may be issued at the time of opening of letters of credit and need not be reissued). Goods that are not covered by any center do not require permission. For some goods, such as pharmaceuticals, imports by the Ministry of Post, Telegraph and Telephone, and imports of the Atomic Energy Organization, pre- sentation of a special permission is compulsory when they are cleared through customs. In the transportation of imported goods for which letters of credit have been opened, priority should be accorded to the Iranian transportation carriers (sea, air, or land). The ceiling on the amount of goods which an incoming traveler is permitted to import is governed by the export-import regulations. Payments for Invisibles The transfer of premiums for reinsurance is per- mitted at the daily rate upon the request of the respective insurance company and the approval of the Central Insurance Company of Iran. Foreign nationals working for the private sector or in organi- zations affiliated to or under government supervi- sion in the Islamic Republic of Iran whose employ- ment has been recognized as necessary by the Government may remit up to a maximum of 30 percent of their net salaries. The remittance limit for physicians can be from 15 to 60 percent, depend- ing on the location and condition of their work. The transfer of the above-mentioned amounts is dependent upon a valid passport and work permit. Persons needing medical treatment abroad may obtain foreign exchange up to the amount specified by the High Medical Council of the Ministry of Health. The sale of foreign exchange to students studying abroad varies according to the cost of living in the respective country up to a maximum of US$1,170 a month; an additional allowance of 60 percent and 30 percent of the basic allowance is provided, re- spectively, for the spouse and for each child. In certain cases, where this allowance does not cover tuition, university fees and expenses are separately calculated and paid. Foreign travelers entering the Islamic Republic of Iran must sell at least US$150 to US$300 (as spec- ified by the Islamic Republic of Iran's consular offi- cials upon the issuance of entry permits) to the banking system. Muslim citizens of other countries and citizens of countries that are party to bilateral agreements are exempt from this regulation. For- eign truck drivers, when entering the Islamic Re- public of Iran, must convert US$100 worth of con- vertible currencies into rials; the amount for Turkish truck drivers is US$50. Travelers leaving the Islamic Republic of Iran may take out with them up to Rls 5,000 in Iranian bank notes. Outgoing travelers may not export more for- eign currency than they import. The import or ex- port of any amount of foreign currency is allowed, provided that such amount was declared at the time of arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of all commodities are subject to prevail- ing regulations on foreign trade. The commercial benefit tax and customs duty charged at the time of import of raw materials used in manufactured goods for export are refunded to the exporter after the export has taken place. Exporters of non-oil goods are allowed to import authorized goods up to the value of goods exported. Such exporters may transfer the declared foreign exchange earnings to another individual for import of goods. The foreign currency proceeds from commodity exports are sold to banks authorized to deal in for- eign exchange. Authorized banks accept export proceeds normally in currencies quoted by Bank Markazi. With the prior approval of Bank Markazi, other currencies may also be accepted. Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from the export of in- visibles may be retained in a foreign currency ac- count with an authorized bank. Transfers from such accounts do not require prior approval of Bank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 240 ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN Markazi. Travelers may bring into the country up to Rls 20,000 in Iranian bank notes. Capital Iranian nationals may retain their foreign ex- change earnings, if earned abroad, in foreign cur- rency accounts with domestic authorized banks. Transfers abroad from such accounts do not require the approval of Bank Markazi. Foreign capital in- vestment is supervised by the Organization for In- vestment and Economic and Technical Assistance of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. Re- patriation of foreign capital can be made with the approval of the said organization and Bank Markazi. The net short-term foreign liabilities of the commer- cial banks are subject to a reserve requirement of 27 percent. Gold No Iranian gold coin is legal tender. Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold, platinum, and silver in the domestic mar- ket. The import and export of gold for monetary purposes is reserved for Bank Markazi. Authorized banks may import gold, platinum, and silver bullion with the prior approval of Bank Markazi. Imports for industrial and dental use are effected by profes- sional organizations at the official rate and subject to supervision by Bank Markazi; such imports are sub- ject to customs duty, the commercial benefit levy, and an import registration fee. The export of gold, platinum, and silver in the form of ingots or coins, except by Bank Markazi, is prohibited. The export of finished articles made of gold, platinum, and silver may be effected in accordance with the relevant regulations. Passengers may, without prior ap- proval of Bank Markazi, bring in jewelry with a value equivalent to Rls 5 million, which will be re- corded in their passports so that the same may be re- exported. Imports of personal jewelry with a value exceeding this amount require the approval of Bank Markazi. The export of Iranian gold coins for numismatic purposes requires prior approval by Bank Markazi. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iraq is the Iraqi Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ID 1 = US$3.2169. The official buying and selling rates on December 31, 1988 were US$3.224933 and US$3.208889 respectively, per ID 1. Buying and sell- ing rates for certain other currencies1 are also of- ficially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. The Central Bank of Iraq undertakes transactions in the listed currencies only with au- thorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Board of Administration of the Central Bank; this au- thority has been delegated to the Governor and his Deputy, who act on recommendations submitted by an Advisory Committee on Foreign Exchange. Cer- tain approval authority has been delegated to the Department of Foreign Exchange and Banking Su- pervision of the Central Bank and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Governor. Branches of the Rafi- dain Bank, the sole commercial bank, are licensed dealers. Import policy and the annual program are formulated by the Ministry of Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries normally must be made in any of the listed currencies or by drawing on a nonresident account in Iraqi dinars, provided that the funds on the nonresident account were obtained originally through credits in any one of the listed currencies. Payments to and receipts from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, which arise from transac- tions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transac- tions in respect of capital transfers. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities are normally handled by the socialized sector. All private imports are subject to licenses, except imports of materials constituting basic elements for development projects benefiting from the Law for Major Development Projects, No. 157 of 1973 (in respect of old contracts) or from the Law for Major Development Projects, No. 60 of 1985 (for new projects). Under Resolution No. 767 of October 1, 1987, foreign companies implementing development projects in Iraq are exempted from all import duties and domestic taxes accruing from the implementa- tion of these projects, including income taxes due on earnings of their non-Iraqi workers. These ex- emptions apply to new projects that are contracted after the effective date of Resolution No. 767. The Law for Major Development Projects, No. 60 of 1985, ceased to be effective, except that its provi- sions continue to apply to projects that were con- tracted before the coming into force of Resolution No. 767. In principle, licenses are issued in accor- dance with an annual import program. Imports of all goods from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of some commodities on a protec- tion list are, in principle, prohibited from all sources. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of 0.5 percent is levied on imports of capital goods, and a tax of 0.75 percent is levied on imports of consumer goods. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a customs surcharge according to the available list of classified goods. The Rafidain Bank makes exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Im- ports financed by foreign exchange obtained by nonresident Iraqis are given special import licenses. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for educational and 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 242 IRAQ medical expenses abroad, freight on exports effected on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. The Rafidain Bank is permitted, subject to the ap- proval of the Central Bank, to transfer up to 50 percent of annual income accrued to Arab and foreign nationals resident in Iraq, unless the par- ticular contract extends this limit up to 75 percent for old contracts or 60 percent for new contracts. Certain nonresident private sector workers who have contracts with public institutions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amounts provided for in those contracts; those not employed under con- tracts may transfer abroad a monthly amount of ID 25 a person, with noncontractual workers em- ployed by the Government being entitled to ID 58 a person a month, or up to 60 percent of earnings. Persons under 16 years and over 55 years of age, however, are not allowed to transfer abroad their earnings. The regulations provide, in principle, for basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad on the basis of classification of foreign countries into two categories as follows. The basic allowance for travel to a country in the first category is ID 300 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 150 for persons under 18 years of age) for each trip to Arab and socialist countries, Turkey, Cyprus, and Greece. For the second category, which includes all other countries, the basic allowance is ID 500 a trip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 250 for persons under 18 years of age). Individual exchange allowance for official missions abroad for first cate- gory countries ranges between ID 30-60 a person a day depending on status and duration of missions; for second category countries, the allowance ranges between ID 40-75 a day. Students abroad are allo- cated a fixed amount in Iraqi dinars to be transferred to the country of their residence, except for certain countries (such as India, socialist countries, and North Africa) where students are paid a fixed amount in U.S. dollars. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance of that allowance, in traveler's checks. Residents on pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to transfer the equivalent of ID 250 allowance for personal expenses in addition to all other traveling expenses paid to the local travel agent. Half of this allowance is permitted for per- sons under 18 years. Exchange allowances for pil- grimage are unrelated to other traveling allowances during the year. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa and exports of certain goods to all other countries are pro- hibited. The Ministry of Trade has authority to pro- hibit the export of any commodity when supply falls short of domestic demand. All exports are li- censed freely through the General Company for Exhibitions and Trading Services. Exporters gener- ally must undertake to repatriate 60 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds through the Rafidain Bank and to surrender them within two months after shipment. Financial supports under an export subsidy fund established in 1969 for the purpose of assisting non- oil exports provide financial incentives to eligible exports. The scheme is intended to introduce Iraqi goods abroad, whether from the private or socialist sector, and to improve their competitive position. The financial subsidies are granted upon presenta- tion of the necessary documents. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 50 from invisibles must be surrendered within three months to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Is- raeli currency), in unlimited amounts, provided that the funds are declared on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. Travelers may bring in ID 25 in Iraqi notes. Iraqi nationals are allowed to bring in convertible foreign currencies, deposit them with a licensed dealer, and use the funds to purchase goods from duty-free shops. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel or South Africa, but they must deposit it with the Rafidain Bank; such deposits may be con- verted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. Under Resolution No. 1646 of the Revolutionary Command Council, enacted in November 1980, no foreign (defined as non-Arab) participation is al- lowed in the capital of private sector companies, but citizens of Arab states may participate with Iraqis in projects in the industrial, agricultural services, and tourism sectors. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require ex- change control approval. Iraqi nationals, foreigners, and nonresidents may transfer foreign exchange to Iraq and deposit them with a licensed dealer in accounts bearing interest rates comparable to the international rates. Balances on these accounts with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ 243 interest are freely transferable abroad in foreign currencies, provided that the funds were deposited with licensed dealers within three months of trans- fer. Iraqi nationals resident abroad (or their legal representatives) may withdraw from their non- resident accounts up to ID 10,000 a year in three in- stalments to cover personal expenses inside the country. Under the Industrial Investment Regulation Law for private and mixed sectors (No. 115 of 1982), certain incentives and guarantees are granted to approved investments of domestic or Arab capital in Iraq. In addition, Arab capital invested in Iraq is accorded preferential treatment in different eco- nomic sectors. Arab farmers having contracts with the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation are per- mitted to transfer abroad annually up to 50 percent of their individual net return, subject to a limit of ID 500. Arab investors are allowed to transfer capital in a convertible currency through a licensed bank or physical assets which will be used in the enterprises they are planning to establish, provided that used machinery and equipment have at least one half of productive life left. Investments by Arab nationals are encouraged by the Arab Investment Law No. 46 of 1988. The Law permits (1) Iraqi investors to par- ticipate in the enterprises where their capital par- ticipation does not exceed 49 percent, provided that their contribution and profits will be paid in Iraqi dinar and the minimum capital of the enterprise is ID 0.5 million, and (2) Arab investors may transfer annually up to 100 percent of profits to be dis- tributed to them, provided that the profit does not exceed 20 percent of the paid-in capital of Arab investors. Gold Under Resolution No. 801 dated October 10,1987, an Iraqi resident, nonresident, or a foreigner may bring in, free of customs duty, worked and un- worked gold to Iraq, regardless of its weight, provided that it is declared upon importation. Iraqi residents may take out with them worked gold not exceeding 100 grams a person, subject to declara- tion; such gold may be brought back on return to the country. Nonresident Iraqis are allowed to take out with them worked gold that they have already brought with them for personal use when they en- tered Iraq. Export and import of gold for commercial purposes are not permitted. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ireland is the Irish Pound. Ireland participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and inter- vention mechanism of the European Monetary Sys- tem (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Ire- land maintains the spot exchange rates between the Irish pound and the currencies of the other partici- pants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in Euro- pean Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Central Bank of Ireland stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1988, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Irish Pounds Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 1.8510 1.7695 100 Danish kroner 10.0087 9.5683 100 deutsche mark 38.1825 36.4964 100 French francs 11.3830 10.8825 100 Italian lire 0.0549952 0.0487799 100 Netherlands guilders 33.8868 32.3939 The participants in the EMS do not maintain ex- change rates for other currencies within fixed limits. On December 30,1988, the official midpoint closing rate for the U.S. dollar was US$1.5063 per Ir£l. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Access to the forward exchange market is regu- lated. Forward cover is permitted for the import and export of goods and services, and forward contracts must correspond in all aspects to the underlying commercial transactions. The minimum and max- imum maturity periods for which forward exchange transactions are permitted are 21 days and 12 months, respectively, except in the case of forward purchases of foreign exchange by banks, when up to 2 years is permitted. The Central Bank intervenes in the forward market intermittently. These inter- ventions are primarily intended to influence banks' liquidity positions and not the forward exchange rate. On February 15, 1961, Ireland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the authority for approving normal pay- ments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose (Authorized Dealers). Import li- censes, where necessary, are issued by the Depart- ment of Industry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of Agri- culture and Food if they are agricultural in charac- ter; import licenses are also issued by the Depart- ment of Tourism and Transport, and in some cases by the Department of Health or the Department of Justice. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency The administration of Irish exchange control is based on the distinction between entities that are permanently resident in Ireland and nonresi- dents —that is, residents of other countries. The latter comprise two categories: (1) residents of Euro- pean Communities (EC) member countries, and (2) residents of all other countries. Authorized pay- ments may be made in Irish pounds or in any for- eign currency. The proceeds of exports must be received in foreign currency or in Irish pounds from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Irish pounds of nonresidents are des- ignated External Accounts. All credits in excess of Ir£250,000 to External Accounts held by nonbanks with financial institutions require specific approval by the Central Bank, except where the credit is in respect of imports of goods or services into Ireland. There are also limits on maximum balances in Exter- nal Accounts of nonresident banks; balances in ex- cess of Ir£250,000 may not be maintained without prior approval of the Central Bank. External Accounts may be credited with pay- ments that are eligible for transfer abroad under a general or specific exchange control approval, with transfers from other External Accounts, payments for any foreign currencies purchased from account 244 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND 245 holders, the proceeds of Irish currency notes re- ceived from abroad in denominations not exceeding Ir£20, payments from within the country up to Ir£250 in value, and interest payable on the ac- counts; they may be debited for transfers to resi- dents, transfers to other External Accounts, the cost of any foreign currency sold to account holders, the transfer of any part of account balances to account holders, and bank charges, if applicable. Authorized banks may operate foreign currency accounts in the names of nonresidents in any for- eign currency; these accounts are generally subject to the same requirements as External Accounts. Credits in excess of Ir£250,000 are subject to prior approval. Authorized banks may also operate for- eign currency accounts in the names of residents under specific Central Bank approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods (including textiles, steel, footwear, tires, ceramic products, copper tubes, and personal computers) originating in certain non- EC countries are subject to either quantitative re- strictions or surveillance measures. Imports from non-EC countries of products cov- ered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC may be subject to various charges, such as levies and monetary compensatory amounts under that policy and to duties under the common customs tar iff. For reasons of national policy, imports of certain goods (e.g., specified drugs, explosives, and fire- arms and ammunition) are prohibited without spe- cial licenses. Prior permission of the Central Bank is required to pay for goods not being imported into Ireland or which are to be delivered more than nine months after the date of the order, or if payment is not being made in an approved manner. Goods not for use in Ireland must, in general, be paid for with borrowed foreign currency. For permitted imports, per- mission to make payments to nonresidents is granted automatically. Authority to make payments is delegated to authorized dealers. Exchange control forms are required for import payments exceeding Ir£50,000 (as from January 1, 1988). Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents require approval. Ap- proval to make payments for most invisibles is dele- gated to the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tourist travel there is a basic allowance in foreign currency for residents of Ireland of Ir£l,200 a person for each trip, or when the trip exceeds two months, Ir£5,000. For business travel, up to Ir£5,000 at a rate of Ir£200 a day is allowed for each journey. Limits are also established for allowances for educa- tion and other purposes. Applications for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unautho- rized export of capital is involved. Not more than Ir£l,200 of an allowance of foreign currency may be issued in the form of currency notes. Residents may also take with them up to Ir£150 in Irish currency notes. Nonresidents may take with them any for- eign currency notes that they brought into Ireland. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a lim- ited range of goods. Exporters of goods must obtain payment for the goods within six months of ship- ment if their value exceeds Ir£250. When payment is received in foreign currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding Ir£50,000 and must be shown to Irish customs at the point of exportation. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be re- patriated without delay, and if foreign currencies are received they must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, or permission for their retention must be obtained. Any foreign currency held by a person after his return from a trip abroad may be retained for subsequent travel purposes for three months from the date of return. There are no limita- tions on the import of Irish or foreign bank notes, but prior central bank approval must be obtained to credit Irish bank notes in denominations exceeding Ir£20 to External Accounts. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all transfers of capital to nonresidents. Authority to make certain payments has been delegated to au- thorized dealers; other payments require central bank approval. There are no restrictions on asset transfers for Irish residents taking up permanent residence abroad. The inflow of capital is not restricted, but inward direct investment requires exchange control ap- proval. The purchase of nonurban land by foreign nationals in some cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in for- eign currencies must be offered for sale to an autho- rized dealer. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 246 IRELAND The Central Bank approves applications by Irish residents for permission to purchase property for personal use in a member country of the EC with foreign currency purchased from Irish pounds. The acquisition of personal property located outside the EC is permitted, subject to a limit of Ir£50,000 a property and one property for each family unit. Up to 25 percent of the cost may be met by purchasing foreign exchange with Irish pounds, and the re- mainder must be loans in foreign currency. Borrow- ings may be repaid with foreign exchange in equal annual installments over a period of not less than five years. The entire foreign currency proceeds from the sale of property outside Ireland purchased for personal use of a resident must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer when they are not in- tended to be invested in another property or to repay borrowing. The forward currency transactions of commercial banks are subject to limits, which vary from bank to bank, depending on the institution's level of par- ticipation in the foreign exchange market. Transactions in foreign currency securities are monitored to limit the amount of capital transferred outside Ireland. All such transactions must be routed through an approved agent (an Irish bank, stockbroker, or solicitor). Where such securities are sold, the proceeds must either be reinvested in for- eign securities or be offered for sale to an authorized dealer within three months. During that three- month period, in the absence of the specific ap- proval of the Central Bank, the proceeds must be held under the control of an approved agent. Pur- chases of foreign currency securities, apart from switches referred to above, and purchases financed with foreign currency borrowing and limited pur- chases by institutional investors financed with Irish pounds were prohibited through 1987. In 1988, in- dividuals were allowed to invest up to Ir£5,000 in foreign securities with a total national limit of Ir£30 million. The Central Bank could also approve ap- plications by authorized insurers, pension funds, and registered unit trusts for the export of up to 12.5 percent of their previous year's net Irish pound cash flow at the current rate of exchange for invest- ment in foreign currency securities.1 Foreign currency borrowing is also approved. Prior to January 1, 1989, the Central Bank granted permission for investment at the current rate of exchange in securities issued by the EC, the Euro- pean Investment Bank, the European Coal and aAs from January 1, 1989, all restrictions on purchases of foreign securities with maturities exceeding two years were eliminated. Steel Community (ECSC), and the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM). Such per- mission was granted only on an undertaking by the intending buyer that the securities would not be resold for at least one year from the date of purchase authorization, a requirement that applied also to purchases made from the sale or maturity proceeds of existing holdings. In line with this requirement, all sales of existing holdings of EC securities were subject to exchange control approval. These controls have been abolished since the general relaxation of restrictions on investments in foreign securities on January 1, 1989. Direct investment abroad requires prior approval. Up to 25 percent of the cost of approved outward investments in non-EC countries may be financed by conversion from Irish pounds, and the balance, through foreign borrowing. Use of Irish pounds is allowed, however, for all approved new direct investments by Irish residents in EC member countries. Purchases by nonresidents of Irish registered se- curities must be funded with foreign currency or Irish pounds from an External Account or the sale proceeds of other Irish securities; purchases in ex- cess of Ir£100,000 require notification to the Central Bank. Remittances of cash gifts or personal loans are normally permitted up to Ir£3,000 a donor a calen- dar year. Applications by Irish residents to make cash gifts to EC residents, in excess of the normal allowance, are approved. Foreign currency may be borrowed by residents for any purpose. The approval of the Central Bank must be obtained when the borrowing is not for the financing of trade. Lending of Irish currency to non- residents is not normally permitted, except to the extent that the nonresidents are parties to commer- cial transactions with residents. Overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of diplo- matic and consular missions in Ireland. Provided that the company is not a channel for portfolio in- vestment, a subsidiary or branch of a company con- trolled directly by interests in EC countries may obtain from Irish banks, subject to exchange control approval, all the financing it requires for its opera- tion in Ireland. In the case of companies controlled from a non-EC country, working capital may be borrowed locally. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coin in Ireland. Dealings in gold bullion are restricted, and no dealings take place in Ireland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND 247 In accordance with a regulation of the EC Council dated October 27, 1986, Ireland does not permit putting into free circulation gold coins minted after 1960 that originated in the Republic of South Africa. Although there are no other import restrictions, residents require specific exchange control permis- sion to purchase gold coin or bullion outside Ire- land. Specific exchange control permission is also required for the export of gold coin and bullion outside Ireland. Specific permission to buy or export gold coin or bullion normally is given only for bona fide numismatic or industrial purposes, respec- tively. Residents of Ireland are not permitted to hold gold abroad. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import 'Payments (See Appendix for a summary of antidumping duties, countervailing charges, and import sur- veillance measures introduced or eliminated by the European Economic Community during 1988, page 561.) Capital October 28. It was announced that, effective Jan- uary 1,1989, all restrictions on purchases of foreign securities with maturities exceeding two years would be eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Israel is the New Sheqel (plural, Sheqalim). The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions but intervene when necessary to smooth out fluctuations in rates and to maintain orderly conditions in the market. With effect from August 1,1986, the new sheqel has been linked to a basket consisting of the following five major currencies: the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1988, the noon midpoint exchange rate of the new sheqel in terms of the U.S. dollar was MS 1.685 - US$1.1 Authorized banks are permitted to deal in foreign exchange, and a levy of 1 percent of the transaction value is imposed on purchases of foreign exchange by the public, including those involving foreign currency-denominated PATAM accounts (see be- low). An exchange rate insurance scheme covering export receipts is in operation (see section on Ex- ports and Export Proceeds, below). Forward exchange transactions are permitted. Purchases and sales of currency options issued by the authorized dealers are permitted, provided that they are intended to cover exchange rate risk arising from authorized trade and capital transactions and are conducted through the authorized dealers. Administration of Control Exchange control is the responsibility of the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange and is administered by the Bank of Israel, in cooperation with other govern- ment agencies, and is carried out through autho- rized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either in foreign currency accounts or in local currency accounts. The 1 On January 3,1989, the new sheqel was devalued by a fur ther 8 percent against the currency basket. At the same time, margins of 3 percent around the base rate relative to the basket were adopted by the Bank of Israel for the daily management of the exchange rate. opening of nonresident foreign currency accounts does not require prior approval. The holder may freely effect transfers from his foreign currency ac- count. He may also convert funds held on the ac- count into local currency at the market rate of exchange. There are no restrictions on the opening by a nonresident of a local currency account; such funds may be used locally in permitted transactions, in- cluding transfers between nonresidents. The sales proceeds of real estate and other investments may be transferred abroad in their entirety if the original investment was made through an authorized dealer with foreign currency or State of Israel Develop- ment Loan bonds. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may maintain foreign currency de- posits with authorized banks in Israel in either non- resident deposit accounts, which may, subject to conditions, be held by exporters and recent immi- grants to Israel, or PATAM-Restitution accounts, which may be held only by recipients of restitution payments and certain disability pensions. In addition, residents may maintain PATAM ac- counts that are time or deposit accounts denomi- nated in foreign currency; the minimum term for interest-bearing PATAM time deposits is one year. Banks are required to redeposit 100 percent of PA- TAM demand and time deposits with the Bank of Israel. However, no new deposits in foreign currency-denominated sheqalim can be made on PATAM accounts with a maturity of less than one year; but existing deposits in these accounts con- tinue to be convertible into sheqalim at any time. PATAM-Restitution accounts are also demand or time deposit accounts in convertible currencies with authorized banks, which must redeposit 95 percent of these foreign currency funds with the Bank of Israel.2 Funds deposited in restitution accounts are free of taxation. PATAM-Restitution accounts are permitted to be used up to a limit of US$1,800 as additional travel exchange allocation. Holders of PATAM-Restitution accounts may resell securities bought with funds in such accounts for foreign cur- rency and may deposit the proceeds in a PATAM- Restitution account. Residents who are not holders 2Effective April 1, 1989, this percentage was reduced to 90 percent. 248 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 249 of PATAM-Restitution accounts may deposit the for- eign exchange proceeds from the sale of foreign securities in PATAM accounts with a maturity of 12 months. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited from all sources. Imports of iron and steel products from South Af- rica are prohibited (imports effected under con- tracts entered into before September 17, 1987 are, however, permitted). With some exceptions, im- ports are free of licensing and administrative or quantitative restrictions. Some imports on a Re- stricted List are subject to approval; this list includes coffee, specified items of machinery, certain types of meat, fish, and dairy products, sugar, certain textiles, explosives and inflammables, tobacco, and nonalcoholic beverages. The import of soybeans has been liberalized and any food processing plant can import them directly. Foreign exchange to pay for authorized imports is granted automatically by the banks upon presentation of relevant documents (import documents, bills of lading, and letters of credit). Foreign exchange is also provided automat- ically for repayment of suppliers' credits. A value- added tax of 15 percent is levied on almost all im- ported and domestically produced goods and ser- vices, other than fresh fruits and vegetables, most foreign tourists' services, and travel tickets. A 2 per- cent additional duty is levied on imports of goods subject to the value-added tax. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange for payments abroad on ac- count of invisibles is provided automatically upon proof of the nature of the transaction. The exchange allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$2,000 a person for each journey, regardless of age. The business travel allowance is US$150 a day, up to a maximum of US$3,000 a trip (in addition to the standard allowance of US$2,000), which can be taken out in the form of cash, traveler's checks, credit card charges, or other foreign exchange in- struments. Foreign exchange use by means of credit cards is included in the travel allowance. Resident travelers may take out Israeli bank notes not exceed- ing the equivalent of US$50 a person a trip. Israeli residents over 2 years of age traveling abroad are subject to a travel tax of NIS 250 on departure. (One half of the standard rate remains in effect for travel to Romania, and travel to Egypt remains exempt from tax.) Payments for hotel accommodation, land transport, and other related services under foreign package tours, along with other imports of services, are subject to the value-added tax of 15 percent. Residents may make family support and gift remit- tances abroad up to US$1,000 a year. The maximum exchange allowance for students studying at institu- tions of higher education abroad is US$500 a month. Nonresident travelers leaving Israel are permitted to take out Israeli bank notes up to the equivalent of US$100, and to repurchase through an authorized dealer, at the port of departure, foreign currency up to the equivalent of US$100. The right of a tourist to buy foreign currency, on presentation of documents showing previous conversion of foreign currency into Israeli currency, is limited during a visit to US$5,000 for a person over 18 years of age and to US$2,000 for a person under 18 years. Commercial banks are authorized to sell abroad unlimited amounts of Israeli currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses, although for some commodities export licensing is retained for quality control. Exports of oil and defense equip- ment (and signing of defense contracts) to South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds, which may be received in foreign currencies only, must be sur- rendered or held in a PATAM account. Exporters may retain in a bank deposit abroad or in a special exporter account in Israel an amount equivalent to 10 percent of their turnover in the preceding year. For inputs directly imported by an exporter, there is a system of rebates of customs duties, wharf charges, and other related charges. The Israel Foreign Trade Risks Insurance Com- pany (FTIC) provides an export insurance facility to cover unfavorable movements in domestic currency costs as measured by movements in the weighted average rate of the new sheqel against the basket of five currencies—namely, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. The scheme covers exporters' value added. In return for a premium based on the value added of his exports, an exporter receives cover against any real appreciation of the new sheq- el in relation to the basket of currencies mentioned above. The premium rate is established on the basis of average expected inflation in the partner coun- tries and the relationships among the forward ex- change rates of the currencies constituting the bas- ket. Exporters would receive payments from the FTIC if the real depreciation was less than expected, whereas they would make payments to the FTIC if it was greater. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 250 ISRAEL Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles must, in gen- eral, be surrendered to an authorized dealer, or kept in foreign exchange in PATAM accounts. Any resi- dent is free to accept specified convertible curren- cies from tourists in payment for customary tourist services and commodities other than commercial exports, securities, and real estate. For 30 years after entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from the requirement to surrender their foreign exchange to authorized dealers, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with autho- rized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. There are no limits on the amounts of Israeli bank notes or foreign currency that may be brought in by travelers. Capital Subject to approval, foreign exchange brought into Israel for the purpose of investment in the form of loan and equity capital may be granted preferen- tial treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investment, which grants a limited withholding tax of 25 percent on income resulting from these investments. Ap- provals granted under the law are classified as "ap- proved enterprises," "approved investments," or "approved loans." Approved enterprise status is granted to economically viable enterprises (1) in the fields of industry, tourism, and agriculture (a sepa- rate law applies to agriculture); (2) established in priority areas; or (3) contributing to improvements in the balance of payments. Approved investment or approved loan status may be granted to any en- terprise in the above-mentioned sectors; however, loans may only be shareholders' loans. The period of the loan must not be less than seven years, and the rate of interest must not be more than 8 percent a year. Certain restrictions apply to borrowing in foreign currency by residents. A freeze is in effect on all such direct foreign borrowing by nonbank resi- dents, other than suppliers' credits and loans with average maturity of at least 30 months.3 The annual rate of interest on loans obtained abroad may not exceed LIBOR plus 1.5 percent. The 3 percent levy on foreign exchange loans was abolished on Sep- tember 15, 1988. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liqui- dation of foreign assets are treated in the same way as other proceeds in foreign currency. Residents are not normally permitted to retain abroad real estate, money, securities, or the income from these assets. Residents may not buy foreign securities abroad, with the exception of specified types of Israeli firms' securities issued abroad with the approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Resident exporters and airline and shipping companies may maintain foreign bank accounts. New immigrants may retain their foreign assets for 30 years. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents other than new immi- grants require a special permit from the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Emigrants are permitted to transfer their Israeli assets abroad up to the equiv- alent of US$2,000 a year. Nonresidents are permitted to purchase real es- tate and shares in Israel. In order to repatriate the principal or profits on these investments, proof is required by an authorized dealer that they were purchased with foreign currency through an autho- rized dealer. Direct loans in any form from Israeli residents to nonresidents are subject to licensing. Investments abroad by Israeli residents are sub- ject to a tax of 15 percent. Gold Gold bullion for industry may be imported by an importer holding an import license. Gold bullion and coins for investment, or certificates conferring a right to gold bullion, must be held in a gold custody account with an authorized dealer; beginning from January 1, 1984, residents have not been permitted to buy gold bullion or coins for investment purposes. The following bullion coins are at present in- cluded in the list of gold coins for investment: (1) Krugerrand of South Africa; (2) 50 dollar Maple Leafs of Canada; (3) 50 pesos of Mexico; (4) 100 corona and 4 dukat coins of Austria; (5) sovereigns of Great Britain; (6) 10 dollar and 20 dollar Liberty coins of the United States; and (7) 20 franc napoleon coins of France. Other gold coins and medallions may be bought, sold, or held by an Israeli resident without restriction. These coins may be imported and exported in the same manner as other goods. Imports of gold included in the above categories are subject to a value-added tax of 15 percent. Changes During 1988 3As of January 3, 1989, the maturity period was reduced to 24 months, and on April 1, 1989, it was further reduced to 18 months. As from January 5,1989, exporters have been allowed to receive credit in foreign currency directly from overseas (from both banks and Israeli subsidiaries). Exchange Arrangement December 27. The new sheqel was devalued by 4.8 percent against the U.S. dollar; the new repre- sentative rate was set at MS 1.68 per US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 251 Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency February 4. Immigrants who came to Israel after April 1,1967 were allowed to hold assets abroad and maintain free foreign currency accounts in Israel for 30 years after their immigration, instead of for 20 years. February 4. Immigrants and returning Israelis (de- fined as Israelis coming home after being abroad for 7 years or longer) were allowed to buy back foreign currency into unrestricted accounts on the basis of original documents showing that they had pre- viously converted foreign currency into new sheq- els after more than 12 months; previously, re- purchases could be made after more than 6 months following the initial conversion. The purpose of this change was to prevent rapid switches into and out of foreign currency to take advantage of interest rate differentials between new sheqel and foreign cur- rency deposits. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The import deposit requirement was eliminated. (The last stage was completed with the elimination of the remaining deposit requirement on imports of 50 products considered as luxury items.) July 1. Commercial banks were allowed to finance imports of equipment from funds available in for- eign currency deposits of nonresidents; previously, commercial banks had been allowed to grant credits for equipment imports only from existing credit lines or from credit lines from foreign banks. Capital September 15. The 3 percent levy on foreign ex- change loans was abolished. November 20. It was announced that certain con- trols on contracting of foreign loans by domestic entities engaged in export activities would be liber- alized, effective January 15, 1989. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Italy is the Italian Lira. Italy par- ticipates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Lux- embourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Mon- etary System (EMS). In accordance with this agree- ment, Italy maintains spot exchange rates between the Italian lira and the currencies of the other par- ticipants within margins of 6 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of Italy (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the curren- cies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. The partici- pants in the EMS do not maintain the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Rates for 20 foreign currencies1 are quoted daily on the basis of market rates. On December 30,1988, the rate for the U.S. dollar was Lit 1,305.76 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The monetary authorities do not, in principle, intervene in the forward exchange market; forward premiums and discounts are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency. Forward cover is freely permitted for commercial and financial transac- tions, when effected through authorized banks. These banks are subject to the following regulations: (1) their foreign exchange position on a daily basis may not exceed 5 percent of their spot foreign ex- change assets as of the end of 1987; (2) they may have a net creditor external position in foreign cur- rencies only up to the limit permitted for the overall foreign exchange position; (3) they may not have a Currencies quoted are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and ECUs. These currencies are referred to in the Italian regulations as the conto valutario currencies. net creditor external position in lire (i.e., their lend- ing in lire abroad may not exceed their fund-raising in lire from nonresidents); and (4) forward transac- tions may be offset against spot operations in the opposite direction only up to the spot-against for- ward ceiling, allotted to each bank by the Italian Foreign Exchange Office and increased by not less than 50 percent in relation to the situation prevailing on September 30, 1988. Authorized banks may also write foreign exchange options for sale to residents and nonresidents, provided that such operations are matched globally by transactions in the opposite direction according to currency, amount, and matu- rity. Residents are permitted to conduct currency options from authorized banks for all transactions involving goods and services but may conduct for- ward or currency option transactions in foreign ex- change only with residents. Italy formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano del Cambi, or UIC). All sales and purchases of exchange must be effected through banks authorized for this purpose. On October 1,1988, a new foreign exchange control law entered into force. The new law is based on the principle that all commercial and financial transac- tions by residents with nonresidents are free unless they are specifically restricted by the law. As of the same date, residents are free to carry out foreign transactions, with the following exceptions: (1) resi- dents are not allowed to hold funds in bank ac- counts abroad, and they must surrender foreign currencies to the authorized banks;2 (2) nonbank residents are not allowed to extend credit lines to nonresidents and to purchase money market instru- ments abroad with a maturity of less than 180 days; and (3) residents are required to channel all foreign transactions through banks authorized by the Bank of Italy to deal in foreign exchange, and to keep in deposit with them their foreign securities acquired abroad. The Government may impose restrictions 2 However, foreign currency acquired in connection with com- mercial and financial transactions can be held in accounts with domestic banks for up to 120 days. 252 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 253 on foreign transactions on a temporary basis to con- tain short-term pressures on the balance of pay- ments or instability in the foreign exchange market. However, the expiration dates for all such measures would be specified at the time of the announcement of the measure. Payments to and from the Republic of San Marino and Vatican City are made in internal lire and therefore are not subject to exchange control. For statistical and monitoring purposes, foreign currency transfers and foreign exchange transac- tions must be channeled via authorized intermedi- aries (the Bank of Italy, the Italian Foreign Exchange Office, authorized banks, and, subject to certain limitations, the Postal Administration). Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries are normally made in convertible currencies or in lire on Foreign Accounts. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are allowed to maintain Foreign Ac- counts with authorized banks in lire and in foreign exchange. Foreign Accounts in lire may be credited with trans- fers from other Foreign Accounts, with lire from current and capital payments, and with the pro- ceeds from sales of convertible currencies. They may be debited, upon the holder's request, for pur- chases of any of these currencies in the ordinary market, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, for payments to residents of Italy for current and capital transactions, af td for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his nominee. Foreign Accounts in foreign exchange may be cred- ited with foreign exchange receipts from abroad, transfers from other Foreign Accounts (in foreign exchange), payments from residents for authorized transactions, and receipts from the sale of assets. Imports and Import Payments Imports are governed by the Decree of Decem- ber 24, 1987 (No. 589), which entered into effect on January 1, 1988. The import regulations vary with the country of origin. Countries are grouped in three major areas: Zone A, which is subdivided into subzones A/1 (European Communities (EC) coun- tries, Guadeloupe, French Guiana, Martinique, and Reunion), A/2 (overseas countries and territories, member countries of the European Free Trade Asso- ciation (EFTA), and other countries associated with the EC), and A/3 (third countries); Zone B, which comprises member countries of the Council for Mu- tual Economic Assistance (CMEA), Albania, the People's Republic of China, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea; and Zone C (Japan). The import control procedures distinguish between goods that may be freely imported without quan- titative restrictions and goods that require a special license. Import liberalization is virtually complete for subzones A/1 and A/2, and very few quantitative restrictions remain for subzone A/3. Many types of goods from Zones B and C are heavily restricted. For imports from countries in Zone B, as well as Yugoslavia, the country of origin must also be the country of shipment. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Com- mon EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. For all authorized imports, the authorized banks, upon request of the interested operators who must fill out a form for monitoring and statistical pur- poses, provide foreign exchange or permit pay- ment.3 International postal money orders may be used for import payments, subject to a limit for each transaction (of Lit 5 million). Balances held by resi- dents in Foreign Exchange Accounts in domestic banks for foreign exchange purchases for commer- cial and financial transactions abroad are subject to a 120-day limit. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks may sell foreign exchange for payments for invisibles listed in Annex III of the Rome Treaty, provided that the necessary form, where required, is submitted. Residents may use international postal money orders for payments, up to a maximum amount of Lit 5 million. There are no limits on expenditures for tourism, business, medical treatment, and education. Resi- dents traveling to foreign countries may export Ital- ian bank notes up to Lit 1 million, and carry with them credit cards and payment instruments in for- eign currencies and external lire without limit, pro- vided that any amount in excess of Lit 2.5 million has been acquired from the authorized banks. Resi- dents traveling abroad may write nontransferable checks in favor of nonresidents, drawing on their 3For transactions up to Lit 10 million, the operator is required to make only a verbal declaration. For operations exceeding Lit 20 million, documents must be submitted together with forms. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 254 ITALY domestic bank accounts up to Lit 5 million for re- lated expenses. Nonresidents can freely take out foreign ex- change up to the equivalent of Lit 5 million without showing proof that foreign exchange has been brought into Italy. They can also take out Lit 1 mil- lion in Italian bank notes of any denomination; larger amounts may be exported if proof of acquisi- tion in Italy or of previous importation is provided. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any country of products on a special list (tabella esport) require export licenses; other ex- ports do not require authorization. Resident ex- porters are required to channel all foreign transac- tions through authorized banks and can hold currency acquired in connection with exports in ac- counts with domestic banks only up to 120 days. For exports exceeding Lit 10 million in value, a form is required; for exports exceeding Lit 20 billion in value, the form must be accompanied by export documents. All export proceeds must be surrendered to au- thorized banks within 60 days of effective receipt. Proceeds in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Jap- anese yen, Australian dollars, and externally con- vertible European currencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in For- eign Exchange Accounts for up to 120 days, during which period such balances may be used for permit- ted transactions or sold to authorized banks. In cases where authorized banks have not received adequate information to enable them to release the funds, the balances may be posted to Ordinary Waiting Accounts (conti di attesa) for a period of up to 30 days from the date of surrender. If the necessary information is not received during the 30-day wait- ing period, the proceeds must be returned abroad or assigned to the UIC upon completion of the trans- action and will be converted into lire at the lowest exchange rate quoted during the waiting period. Export proceeds may also be received by interna- tional postal money order, and in foreign bank notes that are accepted in the country of issue for credit to bank accounts, balances in which are convertible at market rates. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same collection, retention, and surrender require- ments as receipts from exports. Shipping and insur- ance companies and forwarding agencies may keep Operating Accounts (conti autorizzati) in U.S. dol- lars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, Australian dollars, and externally convertible European cur- rencies; unutilized balances must be surrendered periodically. Residents may retain foreign bank notes not exceeding the equivalent of Lit 2.5 million. Persons may bring in any amount in foreign or do- mestic bank notes. Capital Residents are free to undertake, through autho- rized banks, most financial transactions, including direct investments and purchases and sales of any foreign securities, except money market instru- ments with a residual maturity of less than 180 days, real estate investments, and loans. Foreign se- curities, except securities with a value of Lit 5 mil- lion or less, have to be deposited with an Italian bank or with a bank abroad for an account of an Italian bank. Residents are free to borrow abroad and to lend to nonresidents. Foreign investments in Italy, of any kind, includ- ing both direct and portfolio investment and the purchase of real estate, are free, and no restrictions are applied to their repatriation. Gold Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in Italy, with the exception of unrefined gold imported under ministerial license for indus- trial purposes. The monetary authorities may freely acquire unrefined gold abroad. Authorized banks may acquire unrefined gold abroad, with the autho- rization of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, to sell it to Italian firms. Exports of wrought and semimanufac- tured gold, other than jewelry, are subject to licens- ing. The exportation of gold coins that are legal tender in a foreign country is prohibited in the absence of a special authorization. Imports of unre- fined gold are not subject to value-added tax. Im- ports of other gold coins for numismatic purposes are free but subject to value-added tax at 19 percent. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement October 1. Residents were prohibited from con- ducting forward or currency option transactions in foreign exchange with nonresidents. Administration of Control October 1. A new exchange control law came into force, completing the transition from a system un- der which residents were prohibited from entering ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 255 into undertakings with nonresidents except as au- thorized to a system under which foreign transac- tions are allowed to be carried out freely, unless specifically prohibited or restricted. Exports and Export Proceeds January 20. The foreign currency financing re- quirement (75 percent) for deferred settlement of exports was abolished. Imports and Import Payments4 Capital January 20. The compulsory foreign financing of advanced payments for imports of goods (and ser- vices) was abolished. February 29. The EC Commission adopted a reg- ulation instituting a system for the authorization of imports into Italy of footwear originating in the Republic of Korea and Taiwan Province of China. Korea agreed to a voluntary export restraint agree- ment limiting its shipments of footwear to Italy until June 1990. The limit was set at 12.6 million pairs for 1988 and would be increased by 5 percent a year thereafter. For footwear imports from Taiwan Province of China, the annual quota was set at 9.5 million pairs. April 15. The EC Commission authorized Italy not to apply, during April-December 31, 1988, EEC treatment to certain types of motor vehicles and sewing machines originating in Japan and in free circulation in the other member states. August 3. Some 80 products originating in state- trading countries, which were previously subject to import quotas, were authorized to be marketed in Italy without subject to restrictions. August 10. The EC Commission authorized Italy not to apply EEC treatment to footwear originating in the Republic of Korea and in free circulation in the other member states until December 31, 1988. Payments for Invisibles June 13. Payments for invisibles were further lib- eralized. Residents traveling abroad for tourism, medical treatment, business, or study were permit- ted to use the following means of payment: (1) credit cards; (2) Italian bank notes up to Lit 1 million; (3) foreign exchange and external lire without limit, provided any amount in excess of the equivalent of Lit 2.5 million has been duly acquired from autho- rized banks; and (4) checks drawn on domestic lire accounts without limit, provided that each check issued abroad is made out to a nonresident and is nontransferable and amounts do not exceed Lit 5 million. 4See Appendix for a summary of antidumping duties, coun- tervailing charges, and import surveillance measures introduced or eliminated by the European Economic Community during 1988, page 561. January 20. The maximum holding periods for funds credited to Foreign Exchange Accounts were increased from 30 to 120 days for currency acquired directly from abroad, from 15 to 60 days for foreign currency purchased against lire, and from 15 to 30 days for funds credited in Ordinary Waiting Accounts. October 1. A new foreign exchange control law entered into force. Under the law, all restrictions on commercial and financial transactions by residents with nonresidents were abolished, with the follow- ing exceptions: (1) residents were not allowed to hold funds in bank accounts abroad, but foreign currency acquired in connection with commercial and financial transactions can be held in accounts with domestic banks up to 120 days; (2) nonbank residents were not allowed to extend credit lines to nonresidents and to purchase money market instru- ments abroad with a maturity of less than 180 days; and (3) residents were required to channel all for- eign transactions through banks authorized by the Bank of Italy to deal in foreign exchange, and to keep in deposit with them foreign securities ac- quired abroad. With the coming into force of the law, residents would no longer need authorization to carry out foreign transactions. This would apply, in particu- lar, to the acquisition of assets and liabilities abroad by nonbank residents and to transactions involving new financial instruments (interest rate and cur- rency swaps, futures, etc.), with the exception of those transactions indicated above. Commercial banks' activity in foreign exchange would be regulated as follows: (1) banks would no longer be required to balance their foreign exchange position against the lira on a daily basis, and they would be allowed to keep an unbalanced position not exceeding 5 percent of their total foreign cur- rency assets as of December 1987; (2) the ceiling limiting banks' ability to carry out forward opera- tions against lire with spot cover was increased by 50 percent for each authorized bank. Banks would be free to provide forward cover to residents in respect of both commercial and financial transac- tions, and be allowed to write currency options subject to certain prudential requirements; and (3) banks were permitted to extend loans in foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 256 ITALY currency to residents. Moreover, the prohibition to lend lire to nonresidents was abolished, and banks would be allowed to extend lira loans abroad up to the amount of lira deposits received from nonresidents. Gold September 23. Residents were permitted to import unrefined gold for industrial purposes, subject to the licensing requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica Dollar, for which the spot exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined at an auction conducted twice a week by the Bank of Jamaica. Purchasers of foreign exchange in the auc- tion pay their own bid price if their bids are success- ful, instead of the market-clearing price. Since November 1985, the selling rate for the U.S. dollar has been kept within narrow margins of J$5.50 = US$1 by official intervention in the auction. On December 30,1988, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were J$5.46 = US$1 and J$5.50 = US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange, except that exporters of manufactured goods, excluding petroleum prod- ucts and garments assembled from materials im- ported from the United States, to non-Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) countries are paid a rebate equal to 7l/2 percent of f.o.b. export receipts. The Bank of Jamaica's dealings in Jamaica dollars are confined to transactions in specified currencies.1 For spot dealings with commercial banks in these currencies, the Bank of Jamaica charges no commis- sion on purchases but 0.0625 percent on sales. For currencies of countries that are not members of CARICOM, the commercial banks apply a commis- sion charge varying between 2 cents and 15 cents per unit of foreign currency on sales and purchases. For currencies of CARICOM members, the commer- cial banks apply a commission charge of 0.3361 per- cent on sales and a discount charge of 0.25 percent on purchases. Jamaica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange con- trol on behalf of the Minister of Finance, subject to Austrian shillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, Venezuelan bolivares, and the curren- cies of member countries of CARICOM. The CARICOM member countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Minister is required. The commercial banks are designated as authorized dealers and act as agents of the Bank of Jamaica in respect of trade and most service transactions. Since April 16, 1985, import licenses have been required only for basic foodstuffs, motor vehicles, certain chemicals, fertilizers, pharmaceutical prod- ucts, and wood products, and items potentially harmful to public health or security. Import li- censes, when required, are issued by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the Minister of Industry and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made by credit- ing Jamaica dollars to an External Account or a foreign currency account.2 Receipts from all coun- tries must be received by debit of an External Ac- count or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts The commercial banks are empowered to open External Accounts in Jamaica dollars for nonresi- dents, provided that no credit of Jamaica dollars is made to the accounts without the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. Funds on these accounts may be transferred freely between nonresidents. External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Jamaica that have been approved by the Exchange Control Authority, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the pro- ceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts that are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents of Jamaica (including capital gains from the sale of undeveloped land and proceeds from the sale of emigrants' real estate and financial assets) are des- ignated Blocked Accounts. Blocked funds may be used without limitation by nonresidents for local 2A11 currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered foreign currencies. All foreign currencies have been designated as specified currencies. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 258 JAMAICA expenditure while they are in Jamaica, and for in- vestment in Jamaica dollar securities, local mort- gages, or other investments approved by the Bank of Jamaica. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts in excess of J$5,000 a calendar year, for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner, must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Since April 1984, all payments from abroad to Jamaican hoteliers must be paid into a special ac- count of the Bank of Jamaica, the Jamaican National Retained Account (JNRA). Hotels are allowed to obtain foreign exchange to satisfy their import re- quirements and service payments up to a limit of 20 percent of their lodgements. Net amounts due to hotels are reimbursed by the Bank of Jamaica in Jamaica dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports from, or originating in, South Africa are prohibited. Import licenses are required for basic foodstuffs, motor vehicles, certain chemicals, fertil- izers, pharmaceutical products, and wood prod- ucts, and items endangering public health or se- curity. For some goods, licenses are not normally issued unless they originate in member countries of CARICOM. Certain food items and all motor vehicles may be imported only by a public sector agency, the Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation. Other- wise, goods may be imported freely without license. Effective March 1984, payments for imports other than those cleared through customs before January 1984 were delegated to the commercial banks and may be made without reference to the Bank of Ja- maica. Since December 1985, in order to secure funds from the foreign exchange auctions, commer- cial banks have been requested to submit to the Bank of Jamaica on the day following the auction, the import clearance document together with the bid submitted to the auction. In respect of such imports, the importer must present to his commer- cial bank a copy of invoices or other evidence of purchase and value, including, since January 1986, certification of value from international agencies, together with documentary evidence that the goods have been cleared through customs. Exchange con- trol approval is required for advance payments in excess of US$2,000, but is generally granted. Im- porters may, in principle, buy foreign exchange for- ward for a period of one to six months prior to the date of shipment of goods, but in practice this facil- ity is little utilized. Certain goods are subject to consumption duties, whether they are imported or manufactured do- mestically. Imports are subject to customs duties that comply with the Common External Tariff ar- rangement of CARICOM. A 10 percent stamp duty is also applied to imports, with the exception of gov- ernment imports, basic food items, crude pe- troleum, imports from CARICOM countries, and most raw materials. On April 13,1985, an additional stamp duty was imposed, at rates of 10 percent for raw materials, 20 percent for capital goods, and 30 percent for consumer goods, with the same ex- emptions. The stamp duties are collected at the port of entry and are calculated on c.i.f. value of the goods, including customs duties. The application of the tariff structure is modified by exemptions al- lowed to specified importers under legislation de- signed to assist particular sectors. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange for most service transactions, includ- ing business and other travel, medical expenses, foreign exchange refund, cash gifts, pensions, and miscellaneous payments, such as registration and subscription fees. All other service payments re- quire prior approval of the Bank of Jamaica. Foreign exchange is made available for remittance of income from emigrants' properties and for remittance for family maintenance, subject to a limit of US$2,000 a year for each category. Amounts exceeding these limits may be approved by the Minister of Finance on humanitarian grounds. In addition, a limit of US$100 a year is applied to cash gift remittances. All interest and dividends payable to nonresident in- vestors are approved, net of taxes, without restric- tion, except for the repatriation of profits during the first three years under the debt-equity conversion program. A basic exchange allowance of US$300 a person for each calendar year for foreign travel, other than for business or professional purposes, is made avail- able to residents by authorized dealers. The sale of foreign exchange for travel for business and profes- sional purposes is subject to a maximum allowance of US$200 a day for a period not exceeding ten days. Non-Jamaicans working in Jamaica under a work permit are allowed to remit abroad 30 percent of their gross salary during the period of their contract and their accumulated assets at the end of the con- tract period. Residents going abroad may take with them Ja- maica bank notes not exceeding J$20. Bona fide requests for additional amounts are approved by the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA 259 Exports and Export Proceeds All goods may be exported to any country that is not on the prohibited list.3 However, specific li- censes are required for the export of certain agri- cultural products, ammunition, explosives, fire- arms, antique furniture, ready-made garments, gold bullion, mineral and metal ores, and antique paintings. Exporters are required to surrender their exchange proceeds to authorized dealers within three months from the date of shipment. Exporters of manufactured goods, excluding petroleum prod- ucts and garments assembled from materials im- ported from the United States under 807 arrange- ments and to non-CARicoM countries, are paid a rebate equal to TVz percent of f.o.b. export values. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Residents returning to Jamaica may bring in Jamaica bank notes up to J$20 a traveler. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return. Tourists are required to convert their foreign currencies to settle their hotel bills in Jamaican currency. Capital Outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted, irrespective of their destination. Investments abroad by residents require the approval of the ex- change control authorities and are not approved unless they are expected to result in tangible bene- fits for Jamaica. The purchase of local assets by residents from nonresidents also requires the ap- proval of the exchange control authorities, but this is normally granted. With the exception of certain types of investment in residential and commercial real estate, all ap- proved direct investments in Jamaica by nonresi- dents are granted "approved status," under which the investor is given written assurance that he will be able to remit all current payments, including interest and dividends relating to the investments, and will at any time be able to repatriate his original investment plus any capital gain. In order to obtain approved status, the investor must apply to the Bank of Jamaica. 3This list comprises Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, South Africa, and the U.S.S.R. Exports to these countries require specific licenses. In practice, no licenses are issued for exports to South Africa. Nonresidents are normally not permitted to take up security in respect of loans made to Jamaican companies owned or controlled by them. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents and to non-resident- controlled companies is subject to selective credit controls; for this purpose, firms are considered to be non-resident-controlled when the controlling inter- est is held beneficially, either directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the CARICOM area. Such lending is subject to approval by the Bank of Jamaica. There is a fixed-term foreign currency deposit scheme for both residents and nonresidents. Ac- counts under this scheme may be credited with any means of payment, except cash or traveler's checks, but the transactions must be effected through a commercial bank; the deposits are freely repatriable upon maturity. In general, non-Jamaican nonresidents are not permitted to raise local mortgages. However, non- residents working in Jamaica under a work permit may acquire a house to live in, with the permissible amount of mortgage restricted to 50 percent of the appraised value. Foreign nonresident owners of land in Jamaica, when selling to residents, are al- lowed to remit from Jamaica the amount they paid originally from funds brought into Jamaica. In the case of property not fully developed, the balance of the sale price can be remitted annually in five equal installments, commencing one year after the reali- zation of the gain, subject to a minimum remittance in any one year of the foreign currency equivalent of J$20,000, except when the owner had previously received an undertaking that the investment in land carried approved status. If the property is fully de- veloped, the balance can be remitted over two years commencing one year after the realization of the gains. Foreign nonresident owners of houses built on residential lots may remit in full the proceeds of sale, provided the unit is not sold within two years of completion of the construction and the vendor has conformed to the Taxation and Exchange Con- trol Acts. If the unit is sold within two years of completion, the investor may remit the original in- vestment immediately, and the balance over two years, with a minimum remittance in any one year of the foreign currency equivalent of J$20,000. In July 1987, a debt-equity program was intro- duced for the conversion of certain commercial bank debts into equity investments in approved public and private sector entities. Under this program, profit repatriation is prohibited for three years, and capital repatriation is also prohibited for three years ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 260 JAMAICA for investments in priority sectors, and for seven years for investments in other qualified sectors. Gold Commemorative gold coins in denominations of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numismatic purposes. With this ex- ception, residents, other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users, are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities and industrial users. All commercial im- ports of jewelry require import licenses. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement September 19. The forward exchange market for the proceeds of exports of nontraditional goods and services and import payments was suspended. Payments for Invisibles August 8. The basic allowance for nonbusiness travel abroad was raised from US$150 to US$300 a person a year. The annual limit on remittance for family maintenance was increased from US$1,000 to US$2,000, remittance for cash gifts was increased from US$50 a year to US$100, and remittance of income from emigrants' property, from US$1,000 to US$2,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Japan is the Japanese Yen. The authorities of Japan do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the markets. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The interbank rate for the U.S. dollar on December 30,1988 was ¥ 125.90 per US$1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions with their custo- mers, nonresident banks, and among themselves. Forward exchange contracts may be negotiated against foreign currencies quoted on the Tokyo ex- change market and in other major international for- eign exchange markets. There are no officially set rates in the forward market, and forward exchange transactions are based on free market rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated mainly by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interna- tional Trade and Industry (MITI), and the Bank of Japan acting as the Government's agent. Most of the authority for verifying normal payments is, however, delegated to authorized banks, referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import- and export- reporting requirements are handled by the MITI. Inward direct investments are under the jurisdic- tion of the Minister of Finance and other appropri- ate ministers. Outward direct investment requires prior notice to the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any currency, including yen, and receipts may also be obtained in any currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in yen may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. There are no restrictions on credits to or payments from these accounts, and balances may be con- verted freely into any foreign currency. Payment of interest on balances in such accounts may be re- stricted when it is deemed necessary to prevent drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate of the yen. Imports and Import Payments Imports can be freely made, with the exception of specifically restricted items. The Import Restriction System covers 76 items (4-digit Customs Coopera- tive Commercial Nomenclature (CCCN) base), 23 of which have been communicated to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) as residual restrictions, while the remaining items fall under the state-trading, national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT. For the restricted items, once the importer has obtained authorization from the MITI, he receives an import quota certificate that entitles him to receive an im- port license from an authorized foreign exchange bank automatically upon application. For the impor- tation of certain other goods from specified coun- tries or shipping areas, individual authorization must be obtained from the MITI. Items under state trading include beef, certain dairy products, certain cereals, salt, and ethyl and denatured alcohol. Payments for imports may be effected up to two years before the import declaration or after customs clearance. Longer settlement periods require an im- port license from the MITI. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made without any limitation. Gifts and donations (except by govern- ment institutions) to nonresidents (except relatives abroad) exceeding ¥ 5 million are referred to the Bank of Japan, which approves the payment after verifying its authenticity. However, remittances to relatives abroad, as well as other current payments for invisibles, such as the purchase of foreign cur- rencies in connection with travel abroad, may be made without limit. Both residents and nonresidents may acquire for- eign currency deposits with authorized banks in Japan and may take out freely any amount in any foreign currency; in the case of Japanese yen, the freely exportable limit is ¥ 5 million. Overseas de- posits with a maturity of less than one year by 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 262 JAPAN resident individuals up to the equivalent of ¥ 10 million are subject to automatic approval by the Bank of Japan. Qualified Japanese enterprises in insurance, transportation, securities, etc., are per- mitted to acquire overseas deposits under blanket licensing. Exports and Export Proceeds Export restraint may be exercised by virtue of the Export and Import Transactions Law and the Export Trade Control Order issued under the Foreign Ex- change and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export re- straint may be applied either globally or to specified destinations, and it may cover export volume, export prices, or other conditions. At the end of 1988, vol- untary export restraints and floor prices were ap- plied to exports of certain textile items and machine tools to the United States and the European Com- munities (EC), to exports of passenger cars and selected steel products to the United States, and to exports of forklift trucks to the EC. In addition, exports of some other products, including pas- senger cars to the EC and Sweden and video re- corders to the EC, were subject to monitoring by the Japanese Government. At the end of 1988, there were 54 export cartels under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. Of these, 5 required prior notice of exporters' agreements in respect of export trans- actions, 13 required prior approval of manufac- turers' agreements on domestic transactions in goods for export, and 36 required prior notice of a memorandum of an exporters' cooperative associa- tion in respect of export transactions. In addition, 217 items were subject to license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law, in order to control their export to specified socialist coun- tries, or because of short supply in the domestic market (e.g., tungsten ore), or to forestall the im- position of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., on sewing machines and certain textiles). Ex- ports under processing contracts and exports for which settlement is under the "special" method also require individual licenses. Exports of specified raw materials for foreign processing and reimport require individual licenses; special settlement methods are those effected by means of open ac- count or those involving payment not earlier than two years after shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may generally be ac- cepted without a license. Residents as well as non- residents may freely bring in any amount in Jap- anese or foreign currency. Capital Capital transactions are, in principle, free unless specifically required to follow certain procedures. Such specific procedures may take the form of re- quiring (1) prior approval; (2) prior notice with a waiting period, during which the minister or minis- ters concerned may request or order that the trans- action be suspended or its particulars be modified on the basis of prescribed criteria; or (3) prior notice without a waiting period. Acquisition of securities for portfolio can be made freely through designated securities firms, and foreign exchange banks and designated institutional investors can freely acquire securities for portfolio investments. However, ac- quisition of such securities through securities firms other than the designated ones requires prior notice without a waiting period. Under emergency condi- tions, however, most capital transactions that are not subject to prior approval in normal conditions may be subject to prior approval. Emergency condi- tions are defined as situations in which a capital transaction might (1) make the maintenance of equi- librium in Japan's balance of payments difficult; (2) result in drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate; or (3) result in an international flow of funds large enough to affect Japan's money or capital market adversely. A distinction is made between direct investment in Japan and other capital transactions. Besides ma- jority equity ownership of enterprises or establish- ment of branch operations, other types of invest- ment that come under the direct investment regulations include (1) any acquisition of shares in unlisted companies; (2) acquisition by a foreign in- vestor of the shares of a listed company (including individual companies for which the stock price in over-the-counter transactions is made public by the Securities Dealers Association) that reaches 10 per- cent or more when added to those owned by related persons; and (3) acquisition of loans of more than one-year maturity or securities privately placed in Japan, under certain circumstances. Any change of business objectives of a company with one-third or more foreign ownership is also subject to the provi- sions for direct investment. Requests or orders for suspension or modification of specific aspects of the transaction may be made if the minister or ministers concerned consider the transaction to have adverse implications for national security, public order, pub- lic safety, the activities of Japanese enterprises in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 263 related lines of activities, the general performance of the economy, or for the maintenance of mutual equality of treatment of direct investment with other countries. Outward investments by residents in the form of loans, usance of not less than two years, issue of yen-denominated bonds in Japan by nonresidents, and direct investment abroad are subject to prior notice with a 20-day waiting period. Transactions requiring prior notice with a 20-day waiting period may be subject to suspension or modification by the Minister of Finance if, in his opinion, the transaction might adversely affect (1) international financial markets or Japan's international reputation, (2) do- mestic and financial capital markets, (3) business activities of a sector of Japanese industries or the smooth performance of the national economy, and (4) implementation of Japan's international agree- ments, international peace and security, or the maintenance of public order. The Minister of Fi- nance may shorten the notification period when the transaction under consideration is deemed unharm- ful. Other transactions by nonresidents may gener- ally be carried out freely. Overseas deposits by resi- dents and borrowing and lending in foreign currency between residents other than those car- ried out by an authorized bank in Japan require prior approval. Other external transactions by resi- dents may normally be carried out freely. Residents are permitted to issue currency conversion and floating rate Euro-yen bonds. Foreign loans by banks are legally subject to prior notice with a waiting period, but in most cases they can be made upon notification. The banks are free to lend yen on a long-term basis overseas to borrowers of their choice, and they can accept foreign currency deposits from residents and nonresidents and make foreign currency loans to residents; foreign cur- rency or yen deposits of nonresidents as well as residents are subject to minimum reserve require- ments adjusted from time to time by the Bank of Japan. Foreign banks are licensed to operate in Japan subject to Japanese banking regulations; they may obtain resources from inward remittances of foreign currency as well as from money markets in Japan. The following prudential guidelines are applied to capital transactions by financial institutions: (1) a limit on the holding by insurance companies of se- curities issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30 per- cent of total assets; (2) the same ratio applied to purchases of foreign currency-denominated assets; (3) a limit on the holdings by the Post Office Insur- ance Fund of bonds issued by nonresidents equiv- alent to 20 percent of the reserve funds; (4) a ceiling on foreign currency-denominated assets purchased by pension funds managed by trust banks equiv- alent to 30 percent of pension trust assets; (5) a ceiling on insurance companies' individual loans of ¥ 5 billion; (6) a ceiling on the investment by credit cooperatives in foreign currency-denominated bonds excluding corporate bonds issued by nonresi- dents equivalent to 30 percent of their net worth; and (7) a ceiling of 5 percent of assets for investment in foreign currency-denominated securities by the loan trust accounts of trust banks. Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in domestic transactions. The import and export of gold bullion are free from licensing. External futures trading in gold can be freely made by designated companies. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments April 1. The tariff rates on 117 products, such as petroleum gases and chocolate confectionery, were reduced. June 20. The Japanese and the U.S. authorities agreed on an import liberalization program with respect to beef and citrus imports into Japan. This agreement will cover the period 1988-93. June 24. The Japanese and the Australian au- thorities agreed on an import liberalization program with respect to beef imports into Japan. This agree- ment will cover the period 1988-93. July 21. The Japanese and the U.S. authorities agreed on an import liberalization program with respect to restrictions on nine agricultural and live- stock products in accordance with the decision of the GATT in February 1988. The import quotas on seven of the nine products will be abolished by April 1990, the import restrictions on processed dairy products will be reduced, and the import quotas on certain beans and groundnuts will be increased. August 1. The tariff rates on crude oil and petro- leum products were reduced. Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. The voluntary export restraints on ship- ments of passenger cars to the United States for the period April 1, 1988-March 31, 1989 were set at 2.3 million units, the same as those applied during the previous 12-month period. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 264 JAPAN July 20. The voluntary export restraint quota on exports of passenger cars to the EC was increased by 3.5 percent to 1.22 million units. August 1. Voluntary export restraints were intro- duced on the shipment of passenger cars and trucks to Sweden. December 31. Sixteen items, including ceramic fi- bers for use in adiabatic materials, and cryo pumps, which create vacuums using very low temperature transistors, were added to the list of sophisticated products allowed to be exported to the People's Republic of China. Capital January 29. Issuance of commercial papers by nonresidents in the domestic market was permitted. March 22. Spot option trading of currencies, de- posits, bonds, stocks, and stock indexes in the mar- kets abroad by certain Japanese banks, security companies, insurance companies, and investment trust companies for their own accounts was permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jordan is the Jordan Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at JD 0.387754 = SDR 1, within margins of 2.25 percent; however, the exchange rate has been allowed to move within a wider band in recent years, and since October 15,1988, it has been effectively allowed to float as the Central Bank has ceased to supply foreign exchange to the market. On December 31,1988, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank for the U.S. dollar were US$2.10084 and US$2.09205, respectively, per JD 1, and those for pounds sterling were £ stg. 1.16374 and £ stg. 1.15794, respectively, per JD 1. Buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are fixed on the basis of the appropriate cross rates in international financial markets. As of June 6, 1988, commercial banks and financial institutions have been required to quote the exchange rates quoted by the Central Bank; previously (since Feb- ruary 1986) they were allowed to quote their own exchange rates using the central bank rates as a guideline. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange per- mits approved by the Central Bank for sales of ex- change for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institu- tions. Authorized dealers are permitted to enter into forward contracts in major currencies against the Jordan dinar for specified commercial transac- tions, provided that they cover such operations abroad. The maturity of the contracts may be up to one year. Each authorized dealer's forward transac- tions are subject to quantitative limits. For corpora- tions or projects considered to be of vital national interest, the Central Bank may offer a forward ex- change facility in respect of forward exchange cover provided by Jordanian banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank, which also issues exchange permits; the Central Bank has delegated to authorized banks the is- suance of exchange permits for import payments and, within permitted annual limits, for payments 1 Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. for educational expenses of Jordanians studying abroad and for various other purposes. Import pol- icy is determined by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in cooperation with the Ministries of Finance, Customs, Supply, and Agriculture. In addition, an Economic Security Committee is empowered to amend existing regulations or issue new ones con- cerning economic policy. Prescription of Currency Outward payments may be made in any currency. Proceeds from exports (except exports of fruits and vegetables to other countries) and invisibles must be collected, and surrendered where required, in any convertible currency through an authorized bank in Jordan or from a nonresident account with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in cash. Bilateral trade agreements have been concluded with a num- ber of countries (Egypt, India, Romania, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, and Turkey), and a bilateral trade and credit agreement is in effect with Iraq. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in domestic currency. The approval of the Central Bank is necessary for transfers from resident ac- counts, but transfers between nonresident accounts are permitted freely. In addition, nonresidents, in- cluding Jordanians working abroad, may freely open interest-bearing foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. Balances on these accounts may be withdrawn freely in convertible currency and be used for any purpose. The interest rate is fixed in accordance with rates prevailing in interna- tional markets. Foreign Currency Accounts Deposit accounts denominated in foreign cur- rency may be opened at the Central Bank by govern- mental and semigovernmental entities, as well as the specialized credit institutions, licensed finance companies, and domestic corporations of vital na- tional interest (including those companies in which the Government owns more than 25 percent of the capital), provided that outstanding balances (in- cluding interest earnings) in each account do not 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 266 JORDAN exceed JD1 million. This ceiling can be raised to JD 3 million in certain cases. Jordanian nationals residing in Jordan may main- tain foreign currency deposits with licensed banks in Jordan, provided that the total balance of the deposits that any one person holds does not exceed the equivalent of JD 50,000. Jordanians who have worked abroad for more than three years and have decided to return may open accounts in foreign currencies without limits for a period of up to five years, after which the deposits in excess of the equivalent of JD 50,000 must be converted into Jor- dan dinars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items2 from any source, and all imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Since November 1988 and through 1989, the follow- ing imports have also been prohibited: commercial vehicles, television sets, cameras, video recorders, nonmedical furniture, microwave ovens, tiles, glass, marble, sculptures and antiques, artificial flowers, and artificial fruits. All other imports, un- less covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting country (i.e., agricultural products from neighboring countries), require import li- censes if their c. & f. value exceeds JD 100. These are granted freely by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and are subject to a fee of 5 percent of the c. & f. value payable on the issue of the import license. Imports that require an import license also re- quire an exchange permit, which is granted auto- matically when an import license has been ob- tained; the importer holding an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on ex- change permits for imports, except those made by government departments and certain approved in- stitutions and individual permits of less than JD 300. The use of suppliers' credits is subject to prior ap- proval by the Central Bank, which normally is given for essential imports only. In addition to import duties, a surcharge of 13 percent of the duty-paid value is levied on most imports to finance social welfare and the development of certain public facilities. 2These include carbonic acid, some nonalcoholic beverages, cigarettes, secondhand passenger cars and buses that are more than five years old, and military uniforms. Certain of these com- modities may be imported, however, from Arab Common Market countries and from countries with which trade agreements are in force. Imports of certain agricultural commodities may be pro- hibited in good crop years. Imports to Free Zones With the discontinuation of central bank issuance of exchange permits for imports to free zones and for transit trade, it is the importer's responsibility to provide foreign currencies to finance such transactions. Payments for Invisibles Remittances by postal order do not require ex- change control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a month. Payments for the following types of invisibles are generally permitted within certain limits: remittances to residents' dependents, reasonable living expenses of Jorda- nian nationals abroad, expenses of Jordanian resi- dents traveling abroad, educational expenses, ex- penses for medical treatment, business expenses abroad, and insurance payments in accordance with special regulations.3 A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange per- mits for invisible payments except those of govern- ment departments and certain approved institu- tions, permits financed from nonresident accounts in foreign currency, and those with a value under JD 500. No limit exists on the remittance of income accrued to nonresidents or savings of foreign na- tionals who intend to return to their own countries. The exchange allowance for business and tourist travel is the equivalent of JD 5,000 a person (JD 500 for children under 18). These allowances are granted annually for one or more trips. For family support, an annual allowance of JD 5,000 for each beneficiary is permitted; however, remittances by postal order may be made for amounts not exceed- ing the equivalent of JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad, and are not subject to this ceiling. The policy in respect of payments for invis- ibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. In practice, the Central Bank does not restrict remit- tances of income accruing to nonresidents or of savings of foreign nationals returning to their own countries. In addition to any travel allocation, residents and nonresidents traveling abroad may take out up to JD 300 in Jordanian notes and coin. Nonresidents working in Jordan can transfer 70 percent of their salaries if they maintain a nonresident Jordan dinar account; if they do not have such accounts, they can transfer up to JD 100 monthly with a total amount not exceeding JD 1,200 annually. Furthermore, all 3A11 insurance must be taken out in Jordan, but foreign ex- change is granted for premiums in respect of insurance contracts concluded before May 1965. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 267 travelers may take out checks, traveler's checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jor- dan, in accordance with exchange permits autho- rized by the Central Bank. Tourists and other non- residents may also take out foreign currency notes and coin and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared to the customs authorities at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds must be repatriated within six months of shipment. Exporters are allowed to retain 50 percent of the proceeds in deposits at local com- mercial banks or financial institutions and use them to make payments for imports of inputs. Exempt from this requirement are the proceeds from ex- ports of fruits and vegetables to other countries. Exporters and residents of Jordan are not permitted to maintain bank balances abroad for any purpose. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in any amount in Jorda- nian and foreign notes and coins.4 Any person re- garded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any foreign cur- rency at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported freely, but exports of capital require approval and are not normally al- lowed, except that the Central Bank is prepared to examine applications by banks, insurance com- panies, industrial or trading firms, and contractors for permission to transfer funds abroad for specified investment or operating purposes. Current income resulting from nonresident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments may be remitted, subject to the approval of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. After two years, repatriation of the capital is permitted in three equal annual installments in any convertible currency. The Investment Committee may approve more lib- eral provisions, and exchange permits are granted 4Approval is not given for the crediting of such Jordanian currency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equivalent in foreign currency. accordingly. The Foreign Companies Registration Law No. 46 of 1975 provides various benefits for foreign companies establishing branches in Jordan for the purpose of conducting business outside the country; such branches may also be granted non- resident status for exchange control purposes. Pre- mium Development Bonds denominated in Jordan dinars may be purchased with convertible curren- cies by nonresidents; maturity proceeds, pre- miums, and interest are transferable in any convert- ible currency. Gold The Central Bank has issued ten gold coins. These coins, although legal tender, do not circulate and are available only to nonresidents and domestic numismatists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or invest- ment purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized in- dustrial users are not, in principle, allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry are issued by the Ministry of Industry and Trade on the recommendation of the Central Bank, while exports of gold in any form require an additional license from the Central Bank. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement June 6. Commercial banks and financial institu- tions were required to apply the exchange rates quoted by the Central Bank; previously, they quoted their own rates using the central bank rates as a guideline. July 2. Exchange companies were prohibited from opening, maintaining, or using accounts with any bank or financial institution outside Jordan. They were also prohibited from accepting deposits, ex- tending loans, issuing checks, or carrying out transfers. October 13. The Central Bank ceased to provide foreign exchange to the market. Foreign Currency Accounts July 2. The maximum amount of foreign currency deposits that Jordanian nationals may maintain with licensed banks in Jordan was raised from JD 30,000 to JD 50,000. July 2. Jordanian nationals working abroad were allowed to remit foreign currencies and to keep ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 268 JORDAN them in foreign currency accounts without limit and were allowed to use these funds without restriction. Imports and Import Payments April 19. Hard sheets imported by formica facto- ries were exempted from import tar iff. June 1. The import tariff rate on powdered milk packed in closed tin was raised from zero to 20 per- cent. August 13. Prohibitions on imports that have do- mestic substitutes were lifted, with the exception of the following five products: tomato paste, ciga- rettes, fresh milk (including yogurt, labaneh, and white cheese), mineral water, and table salt. Tariffs on the liberalized products, which numbered 30, were adjusted as follows (with the corresponding new tariffs in parantheses): flavored aerated bev- erages (70 percent); margarine made of hydrated palm oil (30 percent); beer (JD 0.3-JD 0.4 a container depending on size); macaroni and sage (JD 0.1 per kilogram); natural yeast (30 percent or JD 0.15 per kilogram, whichever is greater); processed fodder (35 percent); natural juice concentrates (15-30 per- cent or JD 0.3 a liter, whichever is greater); matches (JD 0.07-JD 0.05, depending on unit); towels (50 percent); school copy books (35 percent); de- tergents (tariff exemptions for industrial use; for other uses, 50 percent or JD 0.2 a kilogram, which- ever is greater); emulsion paints (50 percent or JD 0.2 a liter, whichever is greater); artificial flowers (35 percent); steel wool (60 percent); empty cans (1 percent); nails of iron and steel (14^33 percent); petroleum heaters (35 percent or JD 10 a unit, whichever is greater); small washing machines (50 percent or JD 10 a unit); flat gas cookers without ovens (85 percent); plain glass of 2-10 mm thickness (50 percent or JD 0.6, whichever is greater); alumi- num for nonmanufacturing use (50 percent or JD 500 a ton, whichever is greater); cement (50 per- cent); and reinforcing steel (25 percent or JD 25 a ton, whichever is greater). August 13. Import tariff rates on the following products were reduced: woven fabrics of silk, man- made fibers, precious metal thread, sheep's or lamb's wool, fine animal hair, coarse animal hair, flax, raw cotton, jute, and chenille fabrics, from 33 percent to 25 percent; carded or combed cotton, from 30 percent to 8 percent; hand-polishing stones, whetstones, and oil stones, from 30 percent to 8 percent; and transmission and reception equip- ment, other than radios and televisions, from 85 percent to 30 percent. August 13. The following products were ex- empted from import tariffs: alum; bicarbonate po- tassium; writing and printing ink; enzymes; chemi- cal products and preparations of chemical indus- tries for industrial, hygienic, and laboratories' use; handles for bags; wooden boxes of vegetables and fruits; printing and writing paper, including that imported by paper factories; printing and writing paper, coated; cast, rolled, drawn, or blown glass; accessories and parts suitable for use solely or prin- cipally with the relevant machines; computer screens; electrical goods and apparatus for indus- trial use; scent and sprays used for toilet purposes, and mounts and heads thereof; zinc plates im- ported by press; organic derivatives of methal, ethel, keto, and kseem. November 6. Import tariff rates on the following products were raised: aerated and scented water, from 33 percent to 70 percent; cosmetics, from 73 percent to 100 percent; foreign cigarettes, from JD 4 to JD 5 a kilogram; cigars, from JD 5 to JD 7.5 a kilogram; shaving cream and toothpaste, from 40 and 55 percent, respectively, to 60 percent; motor cars with 1,500 cc engines, from 100 percent to 120 percent; motor cars with engines from 1,501 cc to 2,000 cc, from 100 percent to 130 percent; motor cars with engines from 2,001 cc to 2,500 cc, from 130 percent to 170 percent; motor cars with engines above 3,000 cc, from 200 percent to 300 percent. (In addition, a levy of 100 fils would be levied for every kilogram of the vehicle's weight); furniture, from 60 percent to 85 percent; telephones, from 45 per- cent to 85 percent; cameras, from 33-45 percent to 60 percent; televisions and video cameras and tape recorders with radios, from 45 percent to 85 percent; washing machines, from 40 percent to 60 percent; freezers, from 45 percent to 60 percent; refrigera- tors, from JD 10 to JD 12 per cubic foot; domestic ornaments and statues, from 28 percent to 85 per- cent; sanitary products, from 45 percent to 60 per- cent; tiles, from 50 percent or JD 1.5 per square meter to 60 percent or JD 2 per square meter; tires, from 200 fils per kilogram to 300 fils per kilogram; chandeliers and lighting equipment, from 45 per- cent to 60 percent. November 7. Imports of commercial vehicles, tele- vision sets, cameras, video recorders, nonmedical furniture, microwave ovens, tiles, glass, marble, sculptures and antiques, artificial flowers, and ar- tificial fruits were prohibited through 1989. The customs tar iffs on other nonessential goods were increased. Payments for Invisibles November 7. The airport departure tax was increased. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN 269 Exports and Export Proceeds July 2. Exporters were allowed to deposit their proceeds from exports in foreign currency with local banks and financial institutions. November 27. Exporters were allowed to retain 50 percent of export proceeds in deposits with local commercial banks or financial institutions and to use the proceeds to make payments for imports of inputs. Capital June 6. Commercial banks were prohibited from extending loans in dinars against foreign currency deposits and required to settle outstanding bal- ances in three months. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kenya is the Kenya Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of currencies. The mid- dle rate of the Kenya shilling for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank is determined on the basis of the daily U.S. dollar-SDR rate. The Central Bank's buying and selling rates are each set at 0.15 percent below and above the rate thus deter- mined. On December 31, 1988, buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K Sh 18.5715 and K Sh 18.6273, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other curren- cies1 are determined on the basis of New York U.S. dollar closing rates for the currencies concerned. The Central Bank does not deal in other foreign currencies, except occasionally on behalf of the Government. Commercial banks are authorized to enter into forward exchange contracts with their customers in pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and deutsche mark, for periods of up to six months at premia or dis- counts administratively set by the Central Bank. Forward cover is permitted for trade transactions only. Commercial banks may also cover their for- ward exchange contracts in markets abroad in other foreign currencies against U.S. dollars or pounds sterling, but they are not permitted to hold un- covered positions. The Central Bank deals up to six months forward with commercial banks. There are no official schemes for currency swaps or exchange rate guarantee schemes for external debt servicing. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the admin- istration of exchange control to the Central Bank. Authority is delegated to the authorized banks for approving certain payments for imports, many pay- ments for current invisibles, and some capital payments. Import controls are administered by the Director of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. The responsibility for issuing import licenses rests with 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Ethiopian birr, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and Zambian kwacha. the Director, to whom applications must be submit- ted by the importer in Kenya before orders are placed abroad. Applications for the allocation of for- eign exchange for imports are forwarded by the Director to the Central Bank. The approval of ap- plications for imports is granted by the Import Man- agement Committee (IMC), and the Foreign Ex- change Allocation Committee (FEAC) deals with policy issues on imports. Both of these committees are composed of representatives from the Minis- tries of Finance, Planning and National Develop- ment, Commerce and Industry, and the Central Bank. The Director of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry also deals with export promotion and issues special licenses for the export of restricted goods such as maize and other food products. Most other goods may be exported with special licenses. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries other than South Africa may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of an External Account in Kenya or in any foreign currency. Receipts may be obtained in Kenya shillings from an External Account in Kenya or in any marketable foreign currency. Remittances to South Africa are prohibited, with the exception of pensions payable by the Government of Kenya. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of countries other than South Africa with authorized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control ap- proval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any currency (other than South Afri- can currency) and gold by nonresidents to autho- rized dealers. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents and nonresidents. Nontransferable funds of nonresidents are cred- ited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed pro- cedures, balances on Blocked Accounts (other than those in the beneficial ownership of residents of South Africa) may be used for approved domestic expenditures and for the purchase in Kenya of spec- ified bonds issued by the Government or by local 270 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 271 authorities and officially quoted in Kenya.2 The re- demption proceeds of these securities are transfer- able, and interest is freely transferable to nonresi- dents as and when it accrues. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. For purposes of import licensing requirements, prod- ucts are classified into three schedules. Import li- censes are valid for three or six months, depending on product categories. All private sector imports require a license to receive an allocation of foreign exchange, and licenses are issued jointly by the Director of Internal Trade and the Central Bank. Applications must be approved before firm orders can be placed. Schedule 1 consists of a list of mainly high- priority capital goods, raw materials, and inter- mediate inputs. The approval of licenses for imports on this schedule is, in principle, virtually automatic. Licenses are approved by the Director of Internal Trade, and foreign exchange is allocated by the Cen- tral Bank. Items on Schedule 2 are of relatively high priority and require ministerial or government ap- proval, in general relating to technical criteria, prior to the granting of a license. The approval of licenses associated with Schedule 2 is, in principle, auto- matic once the technical criteria are met. Items on Schedule 3 are subdivided into three groupings re- lating to the ease with which licenses are granted. Items on Schedule 3A, which include final goods, are licensed as are those in Schedule 1, but licensing may be subject to some minor delay. Some of the final goods contained in Schedule 3 A have tariffs to protect domestic industries. Schedule 3B contains items that receive lower priority; they may require advance government approval and are subject to quantitative restrictions. Schedule 3C contains items that receive the lowest priority, including items that are either domestically manufactured or items for which domestic substitutes are available. Applications for foreign exchange allocation li- censes for imports are subject to a charge of 1.5 per- cent of the cost and freight value of the application. When an exchange allocation license has been obtained from the Central Bank or when such a license is not required, authorized banks are per- mitted to provide exchange against documents, but normally not prior to customs entry. Prior exchange control approval must be obtained for imports of capital goods on deferred payment terms, and for imports of machinery and equipment, which are regarded as a contribution toward equity capital or are to be accounted for on a loan basis. All imports with an f .o .b. value in excess of K Sh 50,000 are subject to preshipment inspection for quality, quantity, and price. A "Clean Report of Findings" must be obtained before shipment, and authorized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clearance of imports until this Clean Report has been received. All goods pur- chased by importers in Kenya must be insured with companies licensed to transact insurance business in Kenya. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled. Autho- rized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments without limitation or up to established limits. Amounts above these limits as well as other current payments may be approved administratively, and most current pay- ments are in practice unrestricted. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 24,000 a person for a full scholastic year3 and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon presentation of evi- dence of debt. The Central Bank may approve higher remittances for education expenses. Foreign nationals who work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as certain categories of the self-employed, such as doctors and dentists) and have not been in the country for more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to one third of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 4,000 a month; in addition, they may remit funds to cover mainte- nance, educational expenses, etc., provided that their total remittances including savings do not ex- ceed one half of their monthly salaries. Expatriates who have stayed for over four years may continue to remit from salaries as above, up to the end of the tenth year of their residence in Kenya, but in that case they are not entitled to transfer additional sav- ings upon emigration within that period. Remit- tances to South Africa, other than certain pensions, are prohibited. Nonresident individual property owners may re- mit up to K Sh 20,000 of net rental income in each 12- month period. Any excess of net rent over the per- mitted transfer is placed in a Blocked Account and may be invested in approved securities with at least 2Such securities must be payable in Kenya shillings and they must not be redeemable earlier than five years from the date of acquisition. 3Authorized dealers are not allowed to remit any funds for educational support to students at primary or secondary schools who were not abroad in the 1975-76 academic year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 272 KENYA five years to maturity, after which period the re- demption proceeds may be remitted to the nonresi- dent beneficiary. Real estate companies deriving income solely from rent are permitted to transfer annually up to 10 percent of the book value of their properties as of September 25, 1970, or an amount not exceeding 10 percent of issued capital. Where income is derived from rent as well as from other sources, applications must be submitted to the ex- change control authorities for approval of remit- tance of such incomes. Exchange control approval is required for outward remittance of profits and divi- dends on nonresident equity holdings. The basic allowance for travel by adults holding round-trip tickets is K Sh 4,000 a person (K Sh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every two years. Holders of one-way tickets who have been granted emigration status or final departure rights are not entitled to the basic travel allowance, but to an allowance of K Sh 2,000 a person. The basic allowance is not available for travel to South Africa. Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange for business travel to Tanzania and Uganda up to K Sh 400 a night for a maximum period of ten days at a time. Business travelers to other countries are granted an allowance of up to K Sh 1,500 a day for a maximum period of 20 days. A once-only ha jj pil- grimage allowance of K Sh 16,000 for adults is avail- able only to persons who have not used the basic travel allowance within the preceding two years. Nonresident travelers may freely take out any un- used balance of foreign currency notes they brought in upon entry. Residents of Kenya traveling abroad on international flights and holding return tickets may carry up to K Sh 100 with them for local ex- penses on return, but otherwise the export of Kenya bank notes is prohibited. Temporarily, all sales of tickets to Kenyan residents for nongovernmental travel outside Kenya are subject to exchange control approval. Applications for travel tickets must be ac- companied by a deposit of 10 percent of the value of the air ticket and 5 percent of the sea ticket, return- able only if the applications are not approved. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports of certain foodstuffs and agricultural products require special licenses and may be subject to re- striction to ensure adequate supplies in the domes- tic market. Exports of tea, coffee, minerals, precious stones, and other essential strategic materials are also subject to special licensing. Most other goods may be exported without special licenses other than exchange control approval. Effective October 1, 1988, coffee, tea, and horticultural produce may no longer be exported unless a sales contract is regis- tered with the Coffee Board, Tea Board, and Hor- ticultural Crops Development Authority, respec- tively. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be made in Kenya in an appropriate manner within three months of the date of export and sold to the Cenral Bank of Kenya. Exports of manufactured goods with at least 30 percent domestic value added are eligible for export compensation equivalent to 20 percent of the f .o .b. value. About 793 export items, other than coffee, tea, sugar, sisal, pyre- thrum, horticultural products, petroleum products, soda ash, and most goods produced with raw mate- rial inputs not subject to import duty are covered by the export compensation scheme. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Nonresidents must settle hotel bills in foreign currency or against an External Account. Travelers may freely bring in foreign currency notes, except those of countries with restrictions on exportation of their currencies. The import of domestic bank notes is prohibited, except that residents returning to Kenya may bring in up to K Sh 100 previously taken out by themselves. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are regulated. Transfers to South Africa are prohibited. With the exception of expatriate employees who have opted for remittance of savings from salaries, an emigrant is allowed to transfer up to K Sh 300,000 a family unit from his declared assets as a settling-in al- lowance to the new country of residence. Of this sum, K Sh 100,000 is made available for immediate remittance, and the remainder will be authorized for remittance in not more than five annual install- ments not exceeding the equivalent of K Sh 40,000 each year. The initial settling-in allowance of K Sh 100,000 lapses if it is not remitted within the first two years of the emigrant's departure from Kenya. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in ap- proved securities, and redemption proceeds be- come transferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. If assets in Kenya are valued at K Sh 1 million or more, they must be liquidated before any exchange control approvals are sought, and the pro- ceeds must be invested in prescribed securities. The investment of foreign funds in Kenya is not generally restricted, but to ensure eventual re- patriation it is necessary to obtain from the Treasury ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 273 a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the invest- ment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval. Foreign inves- tors may repatriate the value of the original equity investment denominated in the currency in which the investment was initially made and the value of any profits which were reinvested valued in the currency of the original investment at the time of reinvestment. Local borrowing by non-resident- owned or non-resident-controlled companies, as well as borrowing by residents from nonresidents, requires exchange control approval and is re- stricted. Capital gains on foreign investors' blocked funds may be invested in government securities. All imports and exports of securities require ap- proval. Approval is granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to a Blocked Account unless they are reinvested. Residents are not nor- mally permitted to purchase foreign securities. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler require exchange control approval. Import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths, and imports of gold coin are not being licensed. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments June 16. Import products for licensing purposes were reorganized under three main schedules. June 16. The number of tariff categories was re- duced from 25 to 17, and the rate categories of 55 percent, 65 percent, 75 percent, 90 percent, 95 percent, 110 percent, 125 percent, and 170 per- cent were abolished. June 16. Import duties on the following products were raised: magnesite, live horses, washing ma- chines, biscuits, calf leather, locks, keys, unas- sembled monochrome television sets, leather prod- ucts, and shoes and leather shoe uppers. Import duties on the following products were reduced: tele- vision sets, graphite lead, raw hides and skins, billets, wire rods, buses, and bicycles. Import du- ties were eliminated on unexposed film brought into the country by film-shooting companies. Im- port duties on yarn were consolidated into one rate. Exports and Export Proceeds June 16. An additional 43 items became eligible to receive export compensation. Capital June 16. Capital gains of foreign investors, which are required to be blocked for five years before re- mittance, were allowed to be invested in govern- ment securities instead of in lower specified rates of interest. August 11. The Foreign Investment Protection Act was amended to define the value of foreign invest- ment that can be repatriated in terms of the foreign currency of the original investment instead of in terms of Kenya currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KIRIBATI (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The official currency of Kiribati is the Australian Dollar; a small number of Kiribati coins are also in circulation. There is no central monetary institution, and the authorities do not buy or sell foreign ex- change. The Bank of Kiribati quotes daily rates for 15 currencies1 on the basis of their respective values against the Australian dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Kiribati formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 22, 1986. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward payments may be set- tled in Australian currency or in any foreign cur- rency.2 Purchases and sales of foreign currencies by residents in exchange for Australian dollars must be undertaken with an authorized foreign exchange dealer, of which the only one is the Bank of Kiribati. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are normally not required. A lim- ited range of goods is prohibited for health, safety, ^.S. dollar, Fiji dollar, pound sterling, New Zealand dollar, Japanese yen, Hong Kong dollar, deutsche mark, Singapore dol- lar, Canadian dollar, Papua New Guinea kina, Solomon Islands dollar, Swiss franc, Tongan pa'anga, Vanuatu vatu, and Western Samoa tala. 2Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. or environmental reasons. Tariffs, which apply to most private imports, are imposed for revenue purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. There are no taxes or quantitative restric- tions on exports, but copra can be exported only through the Kiribati Copra Cooperative Society. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for or re- ceipts from invisibles. Capital The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct investment. Approval by the Foreign Investment Commission is required for all invest- ments. Export-promoting or import-substituting in- vestments are preferred. Under the Foreign Invest- ment Promotion Act, investors may be granted duty-free imports of capital goods and raw mate- rials and a tax holiday of up to five years. Repatria- tion of profits and capital is normally unrestricted. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 274 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Korea is the Korean Won, which is linked to a multicurrency basket (consisting of a trade-weighted basket and the SDR basket), but other factors are also taken into account if necessary. The Bank of Korea establishes daily the exchange rate of the won in terms of the U.S. dollar, which is the intervention currency. On December 30, 1988, the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Korea for the U.S. dollar were W681.70 and W686.50, respec- tively, per US$1, and the telegraphic transfer buy- ing and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were W 681.30 and W 686.90, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are posted daily by foreign exchange banks on the basis of buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transactions, futures transactions, swaps, and op- tions between foreign currencies as well as between the Korean won and foreign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of forward con- tracting in respect of interbank transactions. However, the terms of forward contracts between a foreign exchange bank and a nonbank customer must be based on a bona fide transaction, and the contract amount must not exceed the expected re- ceipt or payment on the transaction. Korea formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 1, 1988. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance initiates policy with re- spect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital trans- actions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes most of the above functions; it also regulates operations in the ex- change market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has been delegated authority to control payments related to invisibles and certain capital transactions. The foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of foreign banks, are authorized to engage in commercial international banking and in all foreign exchange dealings, with the exception of those specifically prohibited. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other coun- tries are made in convertible currencies. The pro- ceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Korean traders are permitted to enter into export and import contracts denominated in Korean won, provided that settlements are to be made in designated foreign currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of cur- rency notes upon departure from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remit- tances abroad or transfers to other foreign currency accounts, for withdrawals of foreign means of pay- ment and purchases of other foreign means of pay- ment, or for payments relating to approved transac- tions. The sale of deposits for domestic means of payment has been restricted since March 28, 1988. All residents are allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts. The holders of these accounts may change the currency composition of these ac- counts as they wish. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses; for certain imports (see below), licenses are issued upon application. Imports are divided into two categories: automatic approval or restricted items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import li- censes are automatically approved), unless they are on a list of restricted items. On December 30,1988, out of 10,205 basic items on the Harmonized Sys- tem, 534 were classified as restricted items. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are normally approved automatically, irrespective of their classification. However, in order to limit in- creases in recently liberalized imports, the au- thorities have the right to place items on an import JIn addition to the Hong Kong dollar and the Swiss franc, the list of prescribed currencies comprises the currencies of the member countries of the Fund that have accepted the obligations of Article VIII of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 276 KOREA surveillance list, which means that approval from the Korea Traders' Association is required before an import license can be opened. At the end of Decem- ber 1988, only 342 items were on the surveillance list. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders; to maintain the status of a registered trader, ordinary exporters are required to export a mini- mum value of US$0.5 million for at least one or two calendar years. The commercial terms of payment on which im- ports may be contracted are regulated. A10 percent advance deposit is required when usance (deferred payment) or sight letters of credit are opened. The customs tariff is a "flexible" ta r i f f. To limit increases in recently liberalized import items, ad- justment tariffs of up to 100 percent may be applied in addition to the basic tariff rates. Adjustment tar- iffs may be applied only to recently liberalized items; they are subject to review every six months, up to a maximum cumulative period of three years. Emergency tariffs of up to 40 percent may be ap- plied temporarily to discourage nonessential im- ports (mainly luxury goods) or to assist a domestic industry facing injury owing to a surge in imports. As of end-December 1988, no adjustment tar iffs were applied, and five items were subject to emer- gency tariffs. On July 1,1987, a new Trade Act came into effect, which, among other things, introduced a system of safeguards against import surges that is more com- prehensive and less restrictive than the system of import surveillance lists and adjustment tariffs. Un- der the provisions of the Trade Act, a five-member Trade Commission was established on July 1, 1987; the Trade Commission will judge if imports of for- eign products have harmed domestic industries. If substantial damage is ascertained, the Trade Com- mission will recommend the form of import relief to be provided. Possible measures include imposing quotas or other restrictions on the import category in terms of quantity, quality, or other relevant factors. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual li- censes. Payments for invisibles connected with for- eign trade and for certain other items, such as bank- ing charges, insurance premiums, communication fees, and periodicals, are licensed automatically. Korean companies are authorized to obtain foreign 2On January 1, 1989, the remaining 34 items were removed. exchange for meeting the expenses of their overseas branches. Residents traveling abroad may, in general, pur- chase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$5,000 a trip as the basic travel allowance;3 addi- tional foreign exchange may also be purchased for specified expenses, including transportation costs. In addition, up to US$5,000 of foreign exchange may be purchased by Korean residents without use of a passport. The monthly allowance for residents stay- ing abroad for over 60 days is US$3,000 (allowance for Korean nationals working in an overseas branch of a firm is US$10,000). Credit card holders are al- lowed to charge all expenses that are directly asso- ciated with their travel without limit during busi- ness and official travel to foreign countries. In addition, they may carry US$10,000 for cash pay- ments. The basic monthly allowance for students living abroad is US$1,500 per individual, and for students with a family, an additional allowance of US$500 for the spouse and US$300 for each child is granted. Korean residents are allowed to remit up to US$5,000 a transaction as living expenses to their parents and children living abroad, or as a gift to their relatives abroad for weddings or donation for funerals. In addition, remittance by a resident of up to US$10,000 a transaction is permitted without ap- proval, provided that the reason for the remittance is confirmed by a foreign exchange bank. The Gov- ernor of the Bank of Korea grants approval for any bona fide exchange application for additional amounts. Korean currency notes in excess of W 2 million and foreign currency notes may not be exported without special permission. Upon leaving the coun- try, nonresidents may acquire foreign exchange up to the amount for which they have proof of conver- sion. Foreigners employed by Korean and expatriate firms in Korea may remit their salaries, except for basic living expenses, and retirement allowances to their home countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports on a restricted list require individ- ual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an automatic approval procedure. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must either be sur- rendered to a foreign exchange bank at its posted customer rate, or be deposited in foreign currency accounts in banks. 3Those who are visiting countries whose currencies have ap- preciated significantly against the U.S. dollar can carry an addi- tional $2,500. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA 277 Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds derived from invisibles must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank for won or be depos- ited in foreign exchange accounts in the banks. However, Korean residents are authorized to retain up to US$5,000 in foreign exchange. Nonresidents must register the foreign exchange that they bring into Korea if the amount exceeds the equivalent of US$3,000. The import by travelers of Korean cur- rency in excess of W 2 million is restricted. Nonresi- dents are prohibited from converting more than US$10,000 equivalent of foreign exchange into won without the approval of the Bank of Korea. The proceeds received by construction companies from construction activity abroad must be depos- ited in foreign currency accounts, and the conver- sion of these deposits is subject to approval by a foreign exchange bank after ascertaining the bona fide nature of the transactions; approval is given virtually automatically. Capital All overseas investments and loans by residents to nonresidents require approval. Overseas invest- ments of less than US$2 million by Korean residents are authorized automatically if the documentary re- quirements are met; investments of less than US$5 million are not subject to government deliberation. A Korean business incorporated abroad is allowed to retain profits for the purpose of the expansion of its overseas investment business or the improve- ment of its financial status. The foreign exchange allowance for emigrants is subject to a limit of US$200,000 for current expenses and US$300,000 a household for investment purposes. Additional al- lowances for emigrant investment abroad are sub- ject to the recommendation of the Ministry of For- eign Affairs. Foreign exchange banks may grant authorization for such remittances. Regulations governing foreign investment in Korea and the con- tracting of loans to residents by nonresidents are as follows. Foreign investment The Amended Foreign Capital Inducement Act (1983), which came into effect on July 1, 1984, provides that direct investment will be allowed in all industries, except those specified in a "negative" list; previously, direct investment was allowed only in industries belonging to a "positive" list. As of De- cember 31,1988, the negative list comprised 211 out of a total of 999 industrial sectors, implying a liberal- ization ratio of 79 percent. In the manufacturing industries, the negative list comprised 13 out of 522 sectors, implying a liberalization ratio of 98 percent. The negative list distinguishes between "pro- hibited" and "restricted" sectors. The former are activities reserved exclusively for the Government or public entities, or those that may be injurious to public health or moral standards. Restricted ac- tivities are not, in general, open to foreign invest- ment, but specific projects may be approved on a case-by-case basis. Partnership with local firms is no longer required of foreign-invested companies. Tax privileges may be granted to foreign-invested projects that make a significant contribution to improving the balance of payments and to those accompanied by the transfer of advanced technology. As of July 1,1987, tax priv- ileges were reduced and after-investment controls were relaxed to treat foreign companies and local companies on the same basis. Automatic approval is now applied to investments that satisfy the follow- ing requirements: (1) the value of the investment does not exceed US$3 million; (2) the share of the foreigner is less than 50 percent; and (3) tax priv- ileges do not apply. Acquisition of land by foreign- invested companies is subject to the approval of provincial and local governments. Investment ap- proval is normally granted within 30 days, and in the case of automatic approval, within 10 days. The overseas remittance of dividends and legitimate profits accrued from stocks or shares owned by a foreign investor is freely permitted. The repatriation of foreign capital is freely permitted. Loans Authorization is required for foreign borrowing. Foreign borrowing of more than US$1 million and with a maturity in excess of three years is governed by the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. Foreign borrowing repayable within three years is governed by the Foreign Exchange Control Act. Regulations governing the use of foreign borrowing for short-term trade finance have been tightened on several occasions in recent years. At the end of De- cember 1988, the maximum maturity for trade credits (usance letters of credit) was limited to 30 days for imports from Hong Kong, Japan, the Philip- pines, and Taiwan Province of China (on account of their geographical proximity), and 60 days for im- ports originating in other countries. Subject to certain ceilings, foreign bank branches can enter into foreign currency swap transactions with the Bank of Korea at a fixed yield of 0.3 percent to secure funds for their domestic currency lending. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, or sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports of gold in any form other than gold coins in circulation do not require any ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 278 KOREA approval or license. This means that certain com- memorative coins that are legal tender but not in circulation may be freely imported. Exports of gold in any form, other than finished and processed products, the main material of which is gold, re- quire the approval of the Bank of Korea. Domes- tically produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement November 1. Korea formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency November 1. Korean traders were allowed to enter into export and import contracts denominated in Korean won, provided that settlements are made in designated foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Tariff rates on a large number of prod- ucts were reduced, bringing the average un- weighted basic tariff rate to 18 percent. January 1. Eight items were removed from the import surveillance list. January 1. Tariff quotas were established on 356 items, lowering their tariff rates by an average of 9.9 percentage points. Tariff rates on 194 items were reduced, including passenger cars (from 50 per- cent to 40 percent), tobacco products (from 70 per- cent to 50 percent), and film (from 20 percent to 15 percent). January 7. Restrictions on imports by manufactur- ing firms partly or wholly owned by foreign inves- tors were liberalized. Firms with foreign ownership of less than 50 percent were permitted to import freely, whereas those with foreign ownership of more than 50 percent were permitted to import raw materials and capital goods used for manufacturing purposes. February 24. Tariff quotas were established on 117 items, lowering their tariff rates by an average of 7.5 percentage points. April 1. A total of 145 items, including passenger automobiles with engines of less than 2,000 cc, were removed from the restricted list, and three sugar products were added to the list. This brought the number of automatically approved items to 7,550 out of a total of 7,911 items under the CCCN eight- digit classification. At the same time, 23 items were removed from the surveillance list, leaving 25 items on the list, and it was announced that this system would lapse by January 1, 1989. July 1. A total of 71 items were removed from the restricted list. Tariff quotas were established for 691 items, lowering their effective tariff rates by an aver- age of 8.5 percentage points. July 7. The prohibition on importation of beef, which had been suspended, was resumed, and a quota of 14,500 tons was established for 1988. August 12. The prohibition on the importation of heat-treated, frozen french fries was abolished. November 22. Tariff rates on 1,071 items under the Harmonized System containing ten-digit classifica- tion, including automobiles, trucks, and buses, were reduced by an average of 6.4 percentage points. December 2. A total of 59 items were removed from the restricted list. Payments for Invisibles November 1. Korean residents were authorized to purchase up to US$5,000 in foreign exchange from banks for travel purposes in addition to the existing US$5,000 travel allowance. The limit on the export of Korean currency notes was raised from W 500,000 to W 2 million. The limit on overseas remittances by Korean residents to relatives abroad for weddings and funerals was raised from US$2,000 to US$5,000. Limits on expenditures by businesses for export and import commissions, payments to foreign experts, and operations abroad were liberalized, and un- limited spending was permitted for sales promotion activities. Proceeds from Invisibles March 25. Korean residents were permitted to retain up to US$5,000 of foreign means of payment required through remittances from abroad or car- ried into the country upon return from overseas travel. March 26. Nonresidents were prohibited from converting more than US$20,000 of foreign ex- change into won on each trip to Korea without au- thorization from the Bank of Korea. September 1. The limit on the amount of foreign exchange that can be brought into Korea without registration was lowered from US$5,000 to US$3,000, and the limit on conversion of foreign exchange into won by nonresidents was lowered from US$20,000 to US$10,000 per visit. Capital January 7. Advertising and motion picture dis- tribution were opened to foreign investment, and restrictions on foreign investment in the Korean ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA 279 insurance industry were liberalized. Foreign adver- tising firms were permitted to establish joint ven- tures with minority ownership, and foreign motion picture producers and distributors were permitted to establish wholly owned subsidiaries. Insurance underwriters of the United States were permitted to establish joint ventures with all but the 15 largest Korean insurance companies; previously the re- striction applied to the 30 largest Korean firms. March 19. The limit on foreign exchange holdings for investment in foreign securities by Korean se- curities firms authorized to handle international businesses was raised from US$10 million to US$30 million. Insurance and investment trust firms were also authorized to hold up to US$10 million for such purposes. March 25. The foreign exchange allowance for em- igrants was raised to US$200,000 a household for current expenses and to US$300,000 for investment purposes. October 19. Foreign subsidiaries and joint ven- tures were authorized to import and distribute all products except for 12 restricted items. November 1. The limit for overseas investments by Korean residents subject to automatic approval was raised from US$1 million to US$2 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement Imports and Import Payments The currency of Kuwait is the Kuwaiti Dinar. The exchange value of the Kuwaiti dinar is determined on the basis of a fixed but adjustable relationship between the Kuwaiti dinar and a weighted basket of currencies, with the weights reflecting the relative importance of currencies in Kuwait's trade and fi- nancial relations. The Central Bank sets the rate for the U.S. dollar on the basis of the latest available market quotations for that currency in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. On December 29, 1988, the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank for the U.S. dollar were KD 0.28256 and KD 0.28266, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The most common arrange- ment for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official and the commercial banking sectors is handled through dealings in the interna- tional forward exchange markets. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control, and residents and nonresidents may freely purchase and sell foreign currencies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currencies of Israel and South Africa are prohibited.1 General and individual import licenses are issued by the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry. A limited control over exports is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Customs and Ports Administration. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Trade and economic agreements are main- tained with the People's Republic of China, Italy, Jordan, and Thailand. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwaiti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. JIn addition, all imports from these countries and all exports to them are prohibited; payments may not be made to them or be received from them for any type of transaction. Import licenses are required for all commercial imports other than fresh fruit and vegetables; li- censes, except for wheat and flour, are issued freely to registered Kuwaiti merchants and companies. Registered importers handling a variety of com- modities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which are also valid for one year. Imports of industrial equipment, machin- ery, and their spare parts require industrial licenses, valid for onetime use. Licenses are issued to regis- tered and licensed industrial establishments after the approval of the Industrial Development Com- mission at the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Private imports of personal objects may be permit- ted under individual or specific licenses. Importa- tion of certain items (mainly oxygen, certain steel and asbestos pipes, pork or foods tuffs containing pork, alcoholic beverages, used vehicles over five years old, portable telephones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders) is prohibited. Commercial imports are limited to registered im- porters. To be registered, the importer must be ei- ther a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwaiti nationals, or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaiti nationals own at least 51 percent of the stock. Imports from any per- mitted source may be paid freely. In concert with the other member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) (Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emi- rates), Kuwait adopted a uniform tariff structure on September 1,1983. In line with the GCC Ministerial Council Resolution adopted on May 18-19, 1983, a minimum tariff of 4 percent was fixed on imports from non-GCC states; tar iffs on imports from other GCC countries, which have a local value-added component of at least 40 percent, were abolished. In August 1985, in line with a GCC resolution, Kuwait adopted a system of preferential tariffs al- lowing industries catering to at least 40 percent of the local market to apply for tariff protection. Tariff rates differ, depending on the domestic value- added content of the products in question. If the domestically produced goods contain at least 20 percent, 30 percent, or 40 percent of domestic value added, protective duties of 15 percent, 20 per- cent, or 25 percent, respectively, may be applied. The degree of protection given by the formula is 280 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT 281 reduced by 5 percent in the case of consumer goods. In 1985 tariffs of between 15 percent and 25 percent were applied to such products as gypsum, portland cement, fiberglass, paper products, biscuits, glass bottles, and linens. During 1986 customs tariffs continued to be used for the protection of domestically produced goods; in this context, the list of items receiving similar tariff protection was expanded to include paint, building materials, reinforced glass products, com- mercial refrigeration units, central air-conditioning units with a capacity of 20-25 tons, electric and telephone cables, and synthetic sponges. In 1987 the tariffs on steel and iron that had been removed in 1986 were reinstated. Imports of portable tele- phones, chewing tobacco, and gas cylinders were prohibited for health or safety reasons. In line with a resolution of the November 1986 session of the GCC, Kuwait adopted a priority system for govern- ment procurement of goods and services, which provides for preference to be accorded to Kuwaiti- produced goods up to a price margin of 5 percent over goods produced in the other GCC states and 10 percent over goods produced outside the GCC. Similarly, goods produced in the other GCC states are accorded a 5 percent price margin over goods produced outside the GCC.2 In total, some 46 items receive tariff protection from the Government. The maximum duty that may be imposed on products that compete with locally manufactured goods is 100 percent. As a general rule, protection is accorded to a firm only if the value added is in excess of 40 percent. Imports are subject to customs duties at a minimum rate of 4 percent. Imports of foodstuffs as well as some industrial establishments' imports of machinery and equip- ment, spare parts, and raw materials are exempt from import duties. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry and of certain other items (such as sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh fruits, vegeta- bles in any form, beans, lentils, chick-peas, jams, and cement) may be prohibited in time of emer- gency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only, under a special license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Exports of arms and ammunition require 2Kuwait has also negotiated trade and economic agreements with Cyprus, Italy, and Jordan. The Jordanian agreement calls for the gradual elimination of tariffs on some items over a period of five years and the immediate elimination of tar iffs on other goods. licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the cur- rency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in Kuwaiti or other bank notes. Capital There are no exchange controls or restrictions on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capi- tal in resident corporations in Kuwait; at least 51 percent of ownership of new Kuwaiti companies must be held by nationals. Beginning in 1983, the participation of nationals of countries of the GCC in companies established in Kuwait may reach up to 75 percent of the capital. In January 1985 the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry resolved, in line with a GCC resolution, to eliminate restrictions regard- ing non-Kuwaiti participation in retail trade enter- prises by GCC nationals as from March 1987. However, import licensing restrictions for non- Kuwaitis were to remain in effect for GCC nationals. No restrictions are imposed on outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Dealings in domestic or foreign stocks in the official Kuwait Stock Exchange are subject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. Besides the approved do- mestic stocks, trading is permitted in certain stocks of companies of the GCC countries, but dealings are restricted to Kuwaiti citizens. The listing of Kuwaiti dinar-denominated bonds in the Exchange is sub- ject to the approval of the Exchange Committee. At the end of 1986, 26 Kuwaiti dinar bonds were listed, and foreigners were permitted to sell and buy these bonds in the Exchange. Gold The monetary authorities and merchants regis- tered with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-karat fine; gold jewelry may not be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Kuwaiti nationals may freely, and without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, carry their holdings of gold ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 282 KUWAIT in any form, without restriction or license. Jewelry and precious metals in any form, manufactured or unmanufactured, are subject to an import duty of 4 percent. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Re- public is the Kip (KN). The exchange rates are set by the State Bank of the Lao People's Democratic Re- public (the Central Bank). On December 30, 1988 the official exchange rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the central bank was KN 450 = US$1 (buying) and KN 455 = US$1 (selling); these rates are used for all transactions. Buying and selling rates for cer- tain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, based on the cross rates for these currencies in rela- tion to the U.S. dollar. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Administration of Control The Lao Bank for Foreign Trade (BCEL), a subsidi- ary of the Central Bank, handles all official foreign exchange transactions related to foreign trade and services. All other official transactions are handled by the Central Bank, which also administers ex- change controls. Import and export authorization is granted by the Ministry of Commerce to state trad- ing companies, mixed companies (joint ventures between domestic enterprises and foreign inves- tors), cooperatives, and public enterprises. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are im- posed on receipts or payments, but in principle, the central bank provides and accepts only deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, Thai baht, and U.S. dollars. The Lao People's Democratic Republic has bilateral trad- ing arrangements with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Mongolia, Poland, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. These are multiyear trading arrangements and are implemented through annual protocols which specify imports and exports in volume terms and shadow prices (expressed in rubles). Except for trading arrangements with Hungary and the U.S.S.R., all other trading arrangements are on a purely countertrade basis. If balances exist at the end of a given year, agreement must be reached with the partner country to settle the balance dur- ing the year. In principle, balances have to be settled 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, and Thai baht. by means of trade transactions. In the case of the agreement with Hungary, the same regulation ap- plies if the countertrade deficit exceeds a certain line of credit granted by Hungary. Under the trading arrangement with the U.S.S.R., the import value of the Lao People's Democratic Republic may exceed its export value by 400 percent. Trade deficits, up to a maximum limit specified at the outset of the year under the agreement with the U.S.S.R., are con- verted into long-term loans at the end of each year. The Lao People's Democratic Republic has bilat- eral payments arrangements with the German Democratic Republic, Democratic Kampuchea, and Viet Nam covering noncommercial transactions re- lated to expenditures of embassies of these coun- tries in the Lao People's Democratic Republic and expenditures of the embassy of the Lao People's Democratic Republic in these countries. Imports and Import Payments Imports are conducted by state trading com- panies, mixed companies, cooperatives, and public enterprises. Import licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, are required for all im- ports and are granted only to exporters. A national import-export plan is a key element of the trading system. This plan is formulated by the Department of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and takes into account the plans of individual enter- prises and the requests furnished by each ministry and the provincial governments. Payments for au- thorized imports are made by using retained export earnings, foreign exchange allocated by the BCEL, and foreign exchange obtained from the parallel market. Margin requirements for opening letters of credit are determined by the BCEL, on a case-by- case basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all invisibles are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce. For higher amounts, authorization by the Ministry of Commerce is required. The BCEL is authorized to provide foreign exchange for traveling up to a limit of US$1,000. With authorization, persons holding foreign exchange deposits with the BCEL are per- mitted to withdraw foreign exchange. In practice, there are no restrictions on profit remittances. 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 284 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC Exports and Export Proceeds Export trade is conducted by state trading com- panies, mixed companies, cooperatives, and public enterprises. At present, the public sector has a mo- nopoly on the exportation of strategic goods.2 Only the Societe du Commerce Lao (SCL), provincial trading companies, and specially authorized public enterprises can export these goods. All other goods can be freely exported by the private sector. A de- cree issued in mid-1988 stipulates that the export of logs is to be banned effective January 1, 1989, and that this ban will be replaced later by a quota. Ex- ports of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. In practice, it is not required to surrender export earnings, and they may be kept in foreign exchange deposits with the BCEL (to make payment for au- thorized imports of goods and services, to make payments in foreign currency by check for domestic purposes, and to make cash withdrawals in kip). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are in practice treated in the same way as foreign exchange earnings accruing from merchandise exports. 2Coffee, tobacco, cardamom, benzoin, stick lac, logs, pro- cessed wood, rattan, cattle, wild animals, minerals, and other special goods. Capital Outward capital transactions are not permitted. Although not yet officially approved, the Foreign Investment Law regulating inward capital transac- tions, profit remittances, and repatriation of capital is being applied. This law imposes no restrictions on these transactions. Gold Residents may buy and sell gold within the coun- try but may not take it abroad except by authoriza- tion of the BCEL. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement April 1. The exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was adjusted to KN 350 (buying) and KN 355 (selling) per US$1. July 1. The exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was adjusted to KN 375 (buying) and KN 380 (selling) per US$1. September 1. The exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was adjusted to KN 435 (buying) and KN 440 (sell- ing) per US$1. November 1. The exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was adjusted to KN 450 (buying) and KN 455 (sell- ing) per US$1. December 1. The representative exchange rate ap- plicable to transactions with the World Bank was changed to KN 450 = US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of foreign exchange transactions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the for- eign exchange market. On December 31, 1988, the rate for the U.S. dollar was LL 530 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The calculation of duties and taxes on goods and services on amounts invoiced or expressed in foreign currencies is based on an ex- change rate of US$1 = LL 6. There are no arrange- ments for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Prescription of Currency No restrictions are imposed on exchange pay- ments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some transac- tions with Poland, with which Lebanon has a bilat- eral payments agreement, may be made through specific accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (mainly arms and am- munition, narcotics, and similar products) are ei- ther prohibited or reserved for the Government. All imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of wheat and wheat derivatives, as well as of certain agricultural products that are produced locally, are either prohibited year-round or during a specified period of the year. Imports prohibited year-round include wheat, which, in principle, may be imported only by the Government, and citrus fruits, apples, olives (excluding olives in cans weighing less than 2 kilograms), olive oil, and pea- nuts; imports prohibited at certain times include squash, eggplant, green beans, watermelons, peas, peaches, and apricots. The Government has a mo- nopoly over petroleum imports. Imports of certain other agricultural products and all seeds require a license. Import licenses are also required for certain finished goods, sanitary ceramic wares, and insu- lated electric and telephone wires, and cables made of copper. All other commodities may be imported freely without a license. Foreign exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely. Banks are obliged to ensure that importers are in possession of a valid import license, if required, before issuing letters of credit. A prior deposit in a local currency amount equivalent to 15 percent of the value of import letters of credit must be placed by importers with their banks; such deposits are not required to be deposited by the banks with the Bank of Lebanon. A municipality tax of 3.5 percent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those originat- ing in an Arab country. A stamp tax is applicable to all imports, except gold and bank notes, at the rate of LL 3 per thousand of the value of goods. The tariff regime is based on the Brussels Tariff Nomencla- ture. Ad valorem duty rates on most products range from 18 percent to 90 percent, and are applied on a most-favored-nation basis, except for certain im- ports from member countries of the European Eco- nomic Community (EEC) and Arab countries that are subject to a preferential rate. A few products are subject to a specific duty. A surcharge of 10 percent of the applicable import duty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Surcharges are also levied on motor vehicles, imitation jewelry, watches, and al- coholic beverages. The rates of surcharge on motor vehicles are as follows: 40 percent for vehicles with values of up to LL 10,000; 90 percent for vehicles with values between LL 10,001 and LL 30,000; and 150 percent for vehicles with values exceeding LL 30,000. The rate of surcharge on watches and imitation jewelry is 7 percent. The rate of surcharge on alcoholic beverages is: beer, LL 140 per 100 liter; champagne, 60 percent of the value; wine and arak, 20 percent of the value; and whisky, 30 percent of the value. An additional construction tax of 11 per- cent and a municipality tax plus an internal tax ranging from LL 2.5 to LL 9.5 per liter are also imposed on champagne, wine, liqueurs, and whisky. A tax of 60 percent is imposed on other beverages. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles. Foreign exchange may be obtained in the free market. 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 286 LEBANON Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (mainly arms and am- munition, narcotics, and similar products) to any destination and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of wheat and wheat deriva- tives to any country, and all exports to the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea require a license. Foreign exchange receipts from exports may be re- tained, used, or sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Foreign exchange may be obtained or sold in the free market. Banks are permitted to pay inter- est on non-resident-held deposits denominated in Lebanese pounds. However, banks are required to hold reserves with the Bank of Lebanon equal to 100 percent of the amount of the deposits. Banks are prohibited from receiving deposits, or opening ac- counts in Lebanese pounds, for nonresident banks and financial institutions. Banks are also prohibited from extending credit in Lebanese pounds to non- residents. Bank credit in Lebanese pounds to resi- dents for the purchase of foreign exchange for pur- poses other than foreign trade transactions is subject to a special reserve requirement; the re- quired reserve amounts to 40 percent of Lebanese pound loans that directly give rise to foreign cur- rency deposits and 15 percent of foreign currency deposits directly arising from Lebanese pound loans to depositors. Banks are authorized to main- tain net foreign currency positions up to 15 percent of the amount of their own capital. Under a "free zone" banking facility, the commercial banks are exempt from reserve requirements and fees for de- posit insurance in respect of foreign currency de- posits. Nonresidents are exempt from the 10 per- cent tax on interest earnings from foreign currency deposits. Under a National Investment Insurance Scheme, new foreign investments are insured against losses arising from noncivil risks, including war. Compen- sation is paid on losses exceeding 10 percent of the insured value. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license but must be officially recorded. The import, export, and domestic sale of foreign gold coin must be covered by a certificate indicating the gold content and weight, issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lesotho is the Loti (plural Ma- loti), which is pegged to the South African rand at M 1 = R 1. Under the Common Monetary Area (CMA) agreement, the rand is also legal tender in Lesotho. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1988, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were M 2.3770 and M 2.3780, respectively, per US$1. Authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations. They undertake such operations through their correspondent banks abroad on rates quoted by the latter. Forward exchange cover is not, however, common in Lesotho. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. A dual exchange rate system (discontinued in February 1983) was reintroduced in September 1985 in the Common Monetary Area (CMA). Under the system, local sales proceeds of CMA securities and other investments owned by non-CMA residents cannot be transferred in foreign currency, but must be retained in the form of "financial rand" balances. Such balances are transferable among nonresidents at a freely determined exchange rate. On August 2, 1986, the scope for investment of the financial rand, which initially was restricted to quoted securities of manufacturing enterprises, was broadened to cover unquoted securities, the establishment of new com- panies, and the acquisition of property. There are no forward cover arrangements for exchange transac- tions in the financial rand market. Exchange Control Territory Lesotho forms part of the CMA, which is an ex- change control territory comprising Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. The amended Trilateral Monetary Agreement among these three countries became effective on April 1,1986. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA; these are uncontrolled and unrecorded. In relation to coun- tries outside the CMA, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are largely similar to those of South Africa and Swaziland. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Lesotho (CBL) controls exter- nal currency transactions. Authority to approve cer- tain types of current payments is delegated to com- mercial banks up to established limits. Lesotho's trade licensing arrangements are designed mainly to raise revenue and to prevent tax evasion; permits are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try. Licenses for financial institutions and insurance agents are issued by the Central Bank of Lesotho. Imports and Import Payments Lesotho is a member of a customs union with Botswana, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from coun- tries outside the customs union are usually licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regula- tions; Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. A wide range of imports from outside the customs union is subject to surcharges ranging from zero to 60 percent. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the for- eign exchange required to make payments for im- ports from outside the customs union. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing for reve- nue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is re- stricted to the export of diamonds. Most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to Lesotho and surrendered within six months of the date of the export transaction. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, although subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of cur- rent payments has been delegated to authorized dealers up to established limits. The basic annual exchange allowance for tourist travel to neighboring countries outside the CMA region—Malawi, Mo- zambique, Zambia, and Zimbabwe—is M 4,000 an adult and M 2,000 a child; the corresponding annual allowance for tourist travel to other countries out- side the CMA region is M 10,000 and M 5,000, respectively. For business travel to neighboring countries outside the CMA region, the basic annual allowance is M 8,000 a person at rates not exceeding M 600 a day; the corresponding limits for business travel to other countries are M 15,000 and M 750, respectively. A higher allowance may be obtained 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 288 LESOTHO for business and medical treatment travel. Emigrant allowances may be transferred through the financial rand market, up to M 100,000 a family or up to M 50,000 a person. The maximum amount of earn- ings on blocked assets emigrants are allowed to transfer is M 300,000 a year. Capital Inward capital transfers should be properly docu- mented in order to facilitate the subsequent re- patriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident, without prior approval. Applications for outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The rulings on applica- tions for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resi- dent. Certain tax incentives for inward direct invest- ment are provided to manufacturing undertakings approved by a Pioneer Industries Board under the Pioneer Industries Encouragement Act, 1969. Funds in blocked maloti accounts may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments that may be approved by CBL. The free transfer of in- come from an emigrant's blocked assets is limited to an annual maximum of M 300,000 a family unit. The transfer by nonresidents of dividends and profits from investments held in Lesotho is not restricted. An emigrant family or an individual may export one automobile only, with a maximum value of M 40,000, provided that the automobile was pur- chased at least one year prior to emigration. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell any gold coin that is legal tender. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments August 12. The across-the-board 10 percent sur- charge on a wide range of imports from outside the customs union was replaced by a differential system of surcharges ranging from zero to 60 percent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles August 12. The maximum amount of earnings on blocked assets emigrants are allowed to transfer was limited to M 300,000 a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Liberia is the Liberian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at $1 = US$1. There is no official intervention. U.S. currency is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along with Liberian coinage.1 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gam- bia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauri- tania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments Arrears are maintained with respect to import and other external payments. There is no general system of import control, but the importation of some items is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions administered by the Ministry of Com- merce. These items include exercise books and note pads, liquefied bleaches, PVC pipes, toilet tissues, bottled carbonated drinks, portland cement, and liquefied petroleum gas. A few items (e.g., arms and ammunition and explosives) require prior li- censes. In addition, imports of certain goods (e.g., narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports from South Africa are prohibited. Pe- troleum is imported by the Liberia Petroleum Refin- ing Company (LPRC) and the Liberia Electric Com- pany (LEC). In May 1987 a regulation was enacted that withdrew the privilege previously granted to mining, rubber, and logging companies to import petroleum for their own use. Rice is imported pri- marily by private distributors. Licenses to import JU.S. dollar notes, which used to form a major portion of the currency in circulation, have almost totally disappeared from circulation. Full convertibility between the Liberian dollar and the U.S. dollar at par does not, de facto, exist, and the U.S. dollar attracts a substantial premium in large parallel market transac- tions, and abnormally high commissions are charged by com- mercial banks for their sales of offshore funds. rice are issued to private distributors by the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry. A user fee of 10 percent is levied on a range of imports. Preshipment inspection of imports is required to ascertain the country of origin, the quality, the quantity, and the value of all goods to be exported to Liberia. Both final and intermediate goods are sub- ject to inspection, except for imports with an f.o.b. value of less than $3,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Export licenses are at present required for elephant tusks and ivory, wild animals, cement, agricultural prod- ucts other than rubber, flour, and sugar, and certain other items, such as arms and ammunition and explosives. Licenses are generally issued freely, and no licenses are required for direct exports by foreign concession holders; licenses serve mainly to enforce taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure cer- tification of quality and origin and to safeguard the export monopoly of the Liberia Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC). In October 1987 a regulation requiring that wood products exported must have a local processing content of at least 25 percent was enacted, but it has not yet been enforced. Exporters are required to surrender 25 percent of export proceeds—in addition to any other arrangement that may already exist between exporters and the Government for the offshore payment of some of their obligations to the Government —to the Na- tional Bank of Liberia through the commercial banks. The Government and the National Bank of Liberia receive priority for the purchase of this for- eign exchange. That portion of the foreign exchange surrender that is not purchased by the public sector is then made available to commercial banks at par. An export tax at the rate of 15 percent a troy ounce is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no governmental limitations on pay- ments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents, other than a limit of $1,000 a person on 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 290 LIBERIA capital export in the form of cash. Under the Invest- ment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises undertaking new investment projects may be granted a five-year, 90 percent duty exemp- tion on imports of raw materials and machinery, total tax exemption on reinvested profits, a 50 percent exemption on distributable profits, and a protective tariff on competing imported products. The five-year incentive may be renewed for a further two years in certain circumstances. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form are sub- ject to licenses issued by the Ministry of Land, Mines, and Energy; import licenses are issued freely, but export licenses are granted restrictively. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya is the Libyan Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at the rate of LD 1.00 = SDR 2.80. Margins not exceeding 7.25 percent are allowed around this fixed relationship, and the dinar has been depreciated to the maximum extent permitted within those margins to LD 1.00 = SDR 2.60465. Buying and selling rates of the Libyan dinar in terms of 17 currencies1 are based on their exchange rates vis-a-vis the SDR, as communicated by the IMF. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, as of the end of December 31, 1988 was LD 0.2853 = US$1. The Central Bank of Libya deals with commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through their foreign correspondents. The banks may not deal among themselves in foreign currencies. Neither authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward com- mitments in foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to imports and exports is determined by the Popular Congresses and executed by the General People's Committee for the Economy and Light Industry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries are made in con- vertible currencies, usually U.S. dollars or pounds sterling, but payments for Libyan oil exports are not accepted in U.S. dollars. All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Central Bank, who is gainfully employed in the country is permit- Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. ted under the exchange control regulations to open and maintain a nonresident account in Libyan dinars with any authorized bank. Legitimate earn- ings of such nonresidents can be credited to their nonresident accounts. Similarly, authorized banks have authority to credit interest earned on savings balances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. (For debits of such accounts, see section on Payments for Invisibles, below.) Funds brought in by nonresident contractors un- dertaking contracts in their own names are required to be kept with an authorized bank. Payments re- ceived by contractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank after submission of the pre- scribed evidence but, in general, remittance is per- mitted up to the net-of-tax amount specified in the contract. Non-resident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked ac- counts. With the approval of the Central Bank, funds in blocked accounts (with certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya up to LD 500 a year to cover the cost of visits by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payment of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of perma- nent residence (up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year); and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qualify, upon payment of due taxes, for remit- tance in full to the owner in his country of perma- nent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (with certain exceptions) who have left the country permanently are being released in installments; bal- ances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have been released. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports included in the annual Com- modity Budget are undertaken exclusively by state- owned enterprises without license. Importers are required to deal directly with producers abroad and not through intermediaries. However, imports not included in the Commodity Budget are subject to 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 292 SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA licensing. Resident and nonresident firms under- taking development projects may import needed items that are not included in the annual Com- modity Budget and not available locally. There is a prohibited import list, consisting mainly of consumer and luxury goods.2 Only gov- ernment agencies may act as commercial agents, including import agents, for foreign companies. A state-owned company controlled by the Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of gold and precious metals. With certain exceptions, all exchange permits re- quire central bank approval. Exchange permits re- quired for imports are readily granted by the autho- rized banks following central bank approval, provided that there is a firm contract and an import license has been obtained from the Secretariat of Economy and, if the import is to be made on a letter- of-credit basis, that a marine insurance policy from a local insurance company is submitted before the letter of credit is established. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durable goods may be opened by an authorized bank with- out a required cash margin based on the import price. Importers must present to the bank granting the exchange permit, within two months of customs clearance, a customs declaration confirming clear- ance and stating the valuation. The approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank is required for all payments by residents. Imports are subject to customs duties and customs surcharges, the latter consisting of 10 per- cent of the applicable customs duty. All Tunisian products and certain Moroccan products are ex- empt from duties. Payments for Invisibles Remittances from nonresident accounts main- tained by nonresident workers and technicians may be approved by authorized banks up to limits spec- ified below: (1) nonresidents employed by the state, state-owned enterprises, and foreign companies may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries each month if their contracts do not specify that lodging, board, or both will be made available free of charge by the employer, or up to 75 percent of net salary if their contracts specify that both lodging and board at worksites in remote areas will be made available free of charge by the employer in accordance with applicable Libyan laws and regulations; (2) non- 2These include mineral water, fruit juices, instant tea, certain types of coffee, green vegetables, poultry, preserved meats and vegetables, alcoholic beverages, peanuts, fresh fruit, oriental rugs, soaps, envelopes, crystal chandeliers, toy guns, luxury cars, and furs. residents employed by the Libyan private sector may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries, provided that the monthly net remittance does not exceed LD 40 for agricultural and unskilled workers, and LD 60 for technical workers. In general, non- residents may not transfer income derived from overtime work. In addition to limits on transfers, there is an upper limit of LD 400 on the value of goods that nonresidents going abroad permanently can take; the value in excess of this allowance is deducted from the transferable portion of earnings. Staff of United Nations agencies, embassies, consul- ates, and medical institutions are exempt from these regulations. Banks may issue traveler's checks and foreign currency notes to nonresident workers and technicians within the limits mentioned. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, in- cluding tourist travel, may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 (LD 150 for chil- dren under 12) in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Additional amounts may be granted in special cir- cumstances. Pilgrims are entitled to a special quota. Temporary residents may take out any traveler's checks or foreign currency notes that they had pre- viously brought in and declared to customs. Trav- elers from the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya may not take out Libyan currency. All other payments for invisibles, as well as pay- ments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require prior approval of the Central Bank. Applications are considered on their merits. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for fish, raw wool, hides and skins, and for agricultural prod- ucts. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Exports of nonmonetary gold (other than for pro- cessing abroad), vegetable oils, and scrap metals are prohibited; exports or re-exports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, tomato paste, and macaroni, which are subsidized com- modities, are also prohibited. All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange receipts must be surren- dered. Traveler's checks or foreign currency notes may be encashed only at an authorized bank, an exchange office, or a hotel licensed by the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA 293 Travelers entering the country may bring with them traveler's checks, letters of credit, securities, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in un- limited amounts; these must be declared to customs. Foreign exchange converted into Libyan dinars by visiting tourists may be reconverted upon departure, with the exception of a minimum local expenditure of US$50 for each day spent in the country. Capital Under the provisions of Foreign Capital Invest- ment Law No. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, as well as profits thereon, may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 per- cent of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be transferred on the basis described above in the section under Payments for Invisibles. Central Bank approval is required and customarily granted freely for all such transfers. Foreign participation in industrial ventures set up after March 20, 1970 is permitted on a minority basis, but only if it leads to increased production in excess of local require- ments, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the sur- plus production. Insurance companies and foreign shareholdings in banks have been nationalized. Commercial firms have been Libyanized in varying degrees, and 51 percent or more of the Libyan inter- ests of the international oil companies have been nationalized. Real estate may be owned in Libyan Arab Jam- ahiriya only by Libyans. Non-resident-owned capi- tal that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Non- resident Accounts, above). Residents require the prior approval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents must have prior permis- sion from the Secretariat of Economy and Light In- dustry to purchase real estate abroad or to invest abroad in securities. The investment of national cap- ital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20, 1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. The Central Bank imports processed and unprocessed gold and pre- cious metals; it also sells gold in bars to domestic goldsmiths for manufacture at prices announced from time to time. The gold is processed before it may be sold to the public. Unworked gold is subject to an import duty of 15 percent. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments February 1. A few items (including fruits) were removed from the list of prohibited imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy Franc. The exchange rate for the Malagasy franc is managed flexibly with reference to a basket of sev- eral currencies. The weight assigned to each cur- rency in the basket is based on the distribution of Madagascar's trade during 1973-80. There is no single intervention currency, although the majority of transactions take place in French francs and U.S. dollars. In accordance with the movement in the basket, the Central Bank of Madagascar adjusts the Malagasy franc exchange rates on a daily basis against ten currencies1 which it quotes. The autho- rized banks are not permitted to maintain an ex- change position in any foreign currency, although they may hold trade bills as foreign assets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of for- eign exchange. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. On December 31, 1988, the midpoint rate for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Madagascar was FMG 1,526.43 = US$1. Administration of Control All countries other than Madagascar are consid- ered foreign countries, and financial relations with all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Office of the Directorate of the Treasury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar, all outward in- vestments, and inward direct investment. Some of the approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries, and all exchange transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be effected through such intermediaries. With the implementation of the open general licens- ing (OGL) system for all imports, effective July 1, 1988, all economic agents are allowed to import and receive the total amount of foreign exchange re- quested at the prevailing exchange rate. However, a list of imports, which currently includes 88 customs nomenclature, is subject to administrative control, 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. mainly for security and health reasons. Since September 1,1988, private operators and state trad- ing companies are authorized to export, with the exception of vanilla, to any market at prices freely negotiated by exporters and importers. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized intermediaries, which may deal with the Central Bank of Madagascar (CBM) in any of the quoted currencies. A bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Mauritius. Nonresident Accounts The principal type of nonresident account is the Foreign Account in Malagasy Francs. Such accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized transactions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a Foreign Account, they must be credited to a Special Blocked Account, bal- ances in which may be used by the holder for per- sonal expenses in Madagascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day for the account holder and FMG 10,000 a day for each accompanying family member. Any other operation requires the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Imports and Import Payments Under the OGL system, which was introduced on February 1, 1988 and extended to all imports on July 1,1988, all economic agents, without exception, may import and receive the total amount of foreign currency requested at the prevailing exchange rate. Import licenses are not required for imports fi- nanced with foreign exchange provided by the CBM, and all administrative formalities, including statistical data, are handled by the concerned banks through which the import transactions are effected. No restrictions of any kind apply to the opening of credit or the means of financing imports; importers may use their own resources, borrow from the banking system, or avail themselves of external loans, including suppliers' credits, to finance im- ports. The temporary requirement under the OGL 294 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 295 that importers set aside provisions in local currency covering the full amount of their imports was abol- ished on May 10,1988, and each commercial bank is free to decide on the desirability of requiring such a provision, which in no case may exceed 20 percent of the c.i.f. value of imports. In accordance with Notice (Avis) No. 10-MC/DGCE of January 1, 1988, all import prohibitions have been lifted, except for 94 items in the customs nomenclature, mainly for health and security reasons, which were subse- quently reduced to 88 nomenclatures. On January 1, 1988, the authorities replaced quantitative import restrictions with a simplified eight-bracket tariff structure with a minimum rate of 5 percent and a maximum tariff of 80 percent as well as a temporary surcharge of 30 percent to ease the transition period. All imports except those sim- plified in accordance with international treaties are now subject to the minimum 5 percent tariff. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which has delegated approval authority to the Di- rectorate of the Treasury and to authorized inter- mediaries, either up to specified limits or for any amount that is properly documented. Residents may purchase foreign exchange for tourism subject to an annual limit of FMG 180,000 a person a year (FMG 90,000 for children under 10 years). Any for- eign exchange remaining after return to Madagas- car must be surrendered. The foreign exchange al- lowance for business travel is the equivalent of US$100 a person a day, subject to a maximum of US$1,500 a trip and a limit of two trips a year. Au- thorized banks may not sell foreign bank notes in excess of the equivalent of FMG 20,000 a person a trip for tourist or business travel. Applications for additional amounts and applications for exchange for any other type of travel must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Applications for additional foreign exchange may be approved for bona fide business trips and for medical treatment abroad, but not for tourism. Allocations for different types of travel may not be combined without the prior approval of the Directorate of the Treasury. There are limits for educational expenses and cer- tain other current invisibles. Dividends are trans- ferable in full when distributed by industrial firms and up to 75 percent in other cases; they may be transferred only to nonresident physical or juridical persons of foreign nationality. The transfer of sav- ings from wages and salaries earned by a foreigner working in Madagascar is permitted, upon presen- tation of his work contract and employment permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. The amounts allowed are up to 25 percent of the net salary for bachelors and persons whose families are in Madagascar, and up to 45 percent for those whose families live outside Madagascar (100 percent for both categories during leave spent outside Madagascar); in all cases, the transferable amount may not exceed FMG 600,000 a person a month. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any remaining foreign bank notes and coin and other foreign means of payment declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds On September 1, 1988, a new export law was published whereby all exporters can freely export their products, except vanilla, at prices negotiated directly between exporters and importers. Further- more, the requirement of quality control or certifica- tion of exportable goods by the Government has been abolished for a number of products and is now limited to only four: vanilla, coffee, shellfish, and meat. Certificates of quality have also been abol- ished on exports of cloves. Mining products are covered by a special arrangement under the mining law. Quality control is limited to a quality or sanitary inspection certificate from a government agency or a specialized private company of international stand- ing, at the option of the exporter. For vanilla and coffee, the control is effected at the level of stocks and not at the time of embarkation. For shellfish and meat, control is exercised at the time of embarkation in the absence of a mechanism directly agreed upon by the importer and exporter in conformity with international agreements. For the 1988/89 crop year, all coffee producers are permitted to freely negotiate and execute export contracts. Apart from Madagascar's international commitments under the International Coffee Or- ganization, there is no prior authorization require- ment or other administrative restriction on coffee exports by economic agents. During this period, a reference price, established by a committee of ex- perts on the basis of international data and updated weekly, is used as the basis for calculating taxes on exports and for determining the amount of foreign exchange to be repatriated. Export proceeds must be repatriated within 90 days of the date of shipment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 296 MADAGASCAR Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other coun- tries in respect of services, and all income or pro- ceeds accruing in those countries or from nonresi- dents, must be repatriated within one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of means of payment denomi- nated in a foreign currency and up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bank notes. Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and for- eign countries and between residents and nonresi- dents are subject to prior authorization by the Minis- try of Finance and Economy. Special controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward di- rect investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct investments in Madagascar2 re- quire prior approval of the Minister of Finance and Economy (the Directorate of the Treasury). Mal- agasy direct investments abroad3 are subject to prior authorization from the Ministry of Finance and Economy. The total or partial liquidation of such investments must be declared to the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Malagasy investments abroad or foreign invest- ments in Madagascar, must be reported to the Min- ister within 20 days following each transaction. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company. Any transfer of a nonresi- dent's participation in the capital of a company in Madagascar is subject to the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance and Economy. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar requires prior au- thorization by the Minister of Finance and Econ- omy. Exempt from authorization are operations in connection with shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Madagascar has pre- viously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or pri- vate, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy, although loans contracted including those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Madagascar of foreign companies. Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Madagascar and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Madagascar. by authorized banks or credit institutions with spe- cial legal status are exempt. Lending abroad is sub- ject to authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. In accordance with the Investment Code of June 18,1985 (Law No. 85-001), foreign or domestic enterprises of special importance to the economy may be granted preferred status arrangements. Such enterprises may benefit from specified advan- tages relating to import duties, income taxes, im- port licenses, and other financial and economic benefits. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Madagascar. Imports and ex- ports of gold require prior authorization by the Min- istry of Commerce after review by the Directorate of Industry and Mines. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank, and (2) imports and exports of man- ufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Travelers are authorized to export 50 grams or 250 carats of gold jewelry or gold articles a person, and 50 grams or 250 carats of numismatic items a person. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. Newly mined gold must be surrendered to the Directorate of Industry and Mines, which, in principle, must deliver it to the Central Bank after processing. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments January 1. A simplified eight-bracket tariff struc- ture with a rate range of 5-80 percent and a tempo- rary surcharge of 30 percent was introduced. February 1. The following measures were intro- duced: (1) an open general licensing system (OGL) for raw materials and spare parts replacing the pre- vious liberalized import regime (LIR) for these prod- ucts; (2) a 100 percent advance deposit requirement for opening letters of credit; and (3) a reduction in the number of products for which imports are pro- hibited or subject to prior authorization to 94 customs nomenclature categories. March 31. All imports, except those exempted in accordance with international treaties, were subject to the minimum tariff rate of 5 percent. May 10. The 100 percent advance deposit require- ment for imports of raw materials and spare parts (introduced in February 1988) was abolished. July 1. The 5 percent import license application fee was eliminated, and the OGL system was extended to imports of all goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR 297 August 5. The number of products subject to pro- hibition or prior authorization mainly for security and health reasons was reduced to 88 customs no- menclature categories. Payments for Invisibles July 1. The foreign exchange allowance for busi- ness travel was increased from the equivalent of US$54 to the equivalent of US$100 a person a day, subject to a maximum of US$1,500 a trip and a limit of two trips a year. Exports and Export Proceeds January 18. The following measures were intro- duced: (1) monopoly of state trading companies on the export of pepper and cloves was abolished; (2) export card and export declaration requirements were abolished; and (3) maximum period for the repatriation of foreign exchange was changed from 30 days after arrival of the goods at their destination to 90 days after the date of shipment of goods. June 2. For the 1988/89 crop year, all coffee pro- ducers were'permitted to freely negotiate and ex- ecute export contracts. September 1. The following measures were intro- duced: (1) all products, with the exception of va- nilla, were allowed to be freely exported, and export prices were allowed to be freely negotiated between exporters and foreign buyers; (2) the requirement of quality control or certification of exportable goods by the Government was abolished, with the excep- tion of vanilla, coffee, shellfish, and meat (quality control was limited to a quality grade or sanitary inspection certificate from a government agency or a specialized private company of international stand- ing, at the option of the exporter, but in conformity with the international agreements to which Mada- gascar is a party); (3) as a transitional arrangement, exports of cloves required a certificate of quality until December 31, 1988; and (4) preferential treat- ment of basic import needs of exporting firms was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position on December 32, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malawi is the Malawi Kwacha, which is pegged to a basket of currencies based on the geographical composition of Malawi's trade and the invoicing currencies in Malawi's foreign ex- change transactions. The middle rate of the Malawi kwacha for the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, quoted by the Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) is determined on the basis of the daily calculations of the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar in terms of the SDR. On December 30, 1988, the Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 2.5880 and MK 2.6076, respectively, per US$1. The Reserve Bank also quotes buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound ster- ling, the South African rand, the Swiss franc, the Zambian kwacha, and the Zimbabwe dollar, which are determined on the basis of the appropriate daily cross rates as communicated by the International Monetary Fund. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the RBM under the authority delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Import policy is formulated by the Min- istry of Trade, Industry, and Tourism (MTIT), which is also responsible for issuing import and export licenses. Commercial banks are authorized dealers in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Ma- lawi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident account maintained by the recipient or in any convertible foreign currency1 traded in Malawi. Payments from residents of other countries may be received in Ma- lawi kwacha from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi kwacha are considered foreign currencies. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other countries are designated nonresident ac- counts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any convertible foreign cur- rency, with authorized payments in Malawi kwacha to foreign countries by Malawian residents, and with transfers from other nonresident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose and may be transferred freely to other nonresident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to the account holder while he is tem- porarily resident in Malawi. Blocked Accounts in Malawi kwacha are held with authorized banks by nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior autho- rization of the exchange control authorities. Nor- mally, authorization is given for the investment of balances of Blocked Accounts in an approved man- ner. On application to the exchange control au- thorities, the interest on Blocked Account balances is normally transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are subject to the open general li- censing system. However, for a number of items,2 specific import licenses are required from the MTIT. Goods originating in Commonwealth countries or in non-Commonwealth countries that are members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) may be imported under an open general license. Imports monitored most closely, and for which licensing procedures are strictest, are salt, fertilizer, secondhand clothing, and cement. Spe- cific import licenses are usually issued within a week of application, and are normally valid for a period of six months. To obtain foreign exchange for imports, private sector importers must file with a commercial bank an application for an import order, accompanied by 2Certain agricultural and food products, new (military type) and used clothing, gold, sugar, fertilizers, newsprint and certain paper products, office stapling machines and staples, printing inks, erasers, hand-operated numbering stamps, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammunition, game traps, mist nets, wild animals, live fish, cassava, and copyright articles. 298 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI 299 pro forma invoices, including, where necessary, a specific import license. Commercial banks are au- thorized to approve, without reference to the RBM, import order applications for "liberalized" items. Liberalized imports include about 75 percent of nonpetroleum raw materials and industrial spare parts, some intermediate goods, and all chemicals and spare parts.3 In the case of restricted (not liber- alized) imports, import order applications filed with commercial banks must be approved by the Ex- change Control Department of the RBM. The RBM allocates foreign exchange for restricted imports ac- cording to the guidelines that give priority to items deemed to be "essential," e.g., nonliberalized raw materials and spare parts, machinery, certain chem- icals, and basic foodstuffs. When imports arrive in the country and pay- ments are due, the importer must submit applica- tions for foreign currency payments. Such applica- tions must be accompanied by relevant customs documents. Commercial banks may require coun- terpart deposits depending on means of payment (e.g., letter of credit). This is a matter of banking practice and is not required by official regulations; approval of the RBM is required in the case of for- eign exchange applications for payment of restricted items. The normal period needed to complete the administrative procedures for import payments is about one month. Any prepayment for imports is prohibited, except with the permission of the exchange control au- thorities. Payments against sight letters of credit and sight bills of exchange are not permitted with- out the prior approval of the RBM. Imports may be paid for in Malawi currency to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. Customs tariffs on nongovernment imports are ad valorem and range from zero to 45 percent of the c.i.f. value, with a weighted average of about 21 percent. Government imports are exempt from customs tariffs. Imports are also subject to a surtax, which is applied on the c.i.f. value including customs tariffs.4 The surtax rates range from zero to 35 percent for nonluxury items, and from 55 to 100 percent for luxury goods. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to provide for- eign exchange, up to certain limits and without reference to the exchange control authorities, for certain invisible payments, e.g., private travel, edu- cation, medical treatment, and family maintenance. The basic exchange allowances for private travel are: MK 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of MK 600 a calendar year; MK 200 a year for children up to 10 years of age; and MK 300 a year for children between the ages of 10 and 18 years. Annual travel allowances are not cumulative but may be increased by up to 50 percent if the traveler has not applied for an allowance during the preceding three years. Al- lowances are subject to a combined maximum of MK 2,000 a year for a family traveling together. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is MK 400 a trip for any number of trips in a year. Travelers may take out up to MK 20 in Malawi cur- rency and £ 10 or US$15 in bank notes, or the equiv- alent of £ 10 or US$15 in any other convertible for- eign currency notes, in addition to their basic travel allowance. Foreign exchange for payments for most other invisibles (or for amounts exceeding standard basic allowances such as those mentioned above) requires the prior approval from the Exchange Control De- partment of the RBM. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts and holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit, subject to RBM approval, up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain commodities5 are subject to export licens- ing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of domestic supplies. Minor specific duties or cesses are levied on exports of hides and skins and tobacco.6 Export proceeds in foreign currency must be surrendered no later than five working days after payment has been made to the exporter's account in a foreign bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coin that may be imported by travelers, but not more than MK 20 in Malawi currency notes and coin may be imported. Capital Inward transfers of non-debt-creating capital are not restricted. The taking up of loans from abroad 3Imports of petroleum products have not been subject to tight foreign exchange controls. 4The surtax is levied on both imported and domestically pro- duced manufactured goods. Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic en- ergy materials, and certain agricultural and animal products. 6The cess on tobacco is also levied, with some exemptions, on tobacco sold locally. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 300 MALAWI by residents requires prior exchange control ap- proval, which is normally granted, provided that the terms of repayment, including the servicing costs, are acceptable. Outward transfers of capital are controlled mainly for residents. Nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country. Apart from the need to obtain exchange control approval, there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of dividends and profits of foreign- owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing to finance the transfer. Residents may not purchase any foreign se- curities without specific exchange control approval. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, they are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange that accrues to them. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresidents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly from outside Malawi. Approval to lend to non-resident- controlled firms may be withheld if it is felt there is excessive recourse to local borrowing and that a firm has brought in insufficient working capital from abroad. All applications for emigrants' allowances must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval. Departing persons over 50 years of age are allowed exchange equivalent up to MK 15,000, whether single or married. Married persons under the age of 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on departure, together with MK 500 for each child, up to a max- imum of MK 8,000 for a family. Unmarried persons under the age of 50 years are allowed MK 3,000 on departure. The balance of the emigrants' funds is blocked, but on the anniversary of the departure date from Malawi, a sum equal to the original emi- gration allowance is permitted to be transferred to the new country of residence, up to a maximum of MK 8,000. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for numismatic purposes. With this ex- ception, residents other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Industry in consultation with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement January 16. The external value of the kwacha was devalued by 15 percent against the basket of curren- cies to which it is pegged, and this resulted in a change in the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar from MK 2.0938 to MK 2.4619 per US$1. Imports and Import Payments February 1. The first stage of import liberalization was introduced, eliminating exchange controls on about 25 percent of imports of nonpetroleum raw materials and industrial spare parts. April 1. The customs duty and import levy sched- ules were combined into one tariff schedule; at the same time, taxes on luxury imports were shifted from the old import duty schedule to the surtax schedule. The surtax is levied on both imported and domestically produced manufactured goods. As a result, tariffs on imports would range from zero to 45 percent. In the case of imports, the surtax, levied on the c.i.f. value inclusive of customs tariffs, would range from zero to 35 percent for nonluxury imports and from 55 percent to 100 percent for luxury imports. August 8. The liberalization of foreign exchange controls was extended to an additional 50 percent of imports of nonpetroleum raw materials and indus- trial spare parts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malaysia is the Ringgit. The ex- ternal value of the ringgit is determined on the basis of its relationship to a basket of currencies weighted in terms of Malaysia's major trading partners and the currencies of settlement. The exchange rate of the ringgit in terms of the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, is determined in the foreign exchange market, and the Central Bank of Malaysia inter- venes only to moderate volatile daily fluctuations in the value of the ringgit in relation to the basket of currencies. Rates for all other currencies are deter- mined on the basis of the ringgit-U.S. dollar rate and the U.S. dollar rates for those currencies in markets abroad. On December 30,1988, the middle rate for the U.S. dollar was M$2.7125 = US$1. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates for all currencies, other than Israeli and South African currencies, to customers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Commercial banks are permitted to deal forward in all currencies other than Israeli and South African currencies, and are free to determine the rates. For- ward exchange contracts may be in respect of both commercial or financial transactions. Forward cover for the commercial banks is provided usually for up to three months for purchases and sales at market rates. Malaysia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank administers exchange control throughout Malaysia on behalf of the Malaysian Government, the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Most of the au- thority for approving payments abroad is delegated to authorized banks. The authority for import con- trol rests with the Royal Customs and Excise De- partment of the Federal Ministry of Finance. The day-to-day administration of import licensing throughout Malaysia is carried out jointly by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and other specified authorities, such as the Ministry of Primary Indus- tries, Malaysian Timber Board, and the Veterinary Department, on behalf of the Royal Customs and Excise Department. Prescription of Currency All payments to countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made either in ringgit or in any currency other than Israeli and South African cur- rencies. Receipts from exports to countries other than Israel and South Africa must be obtained ac- cording to the timing of payment specified in the commercial contract, but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of exportation, either in any foreign currency except currencies of Israel and South Africa, or in ringgit from an Exter- nal Account. Special rules apply to settlements with Israel and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts The accounts in ringgit of residents of countries other than Malaysia are designated as External Ac- counts. There are no restrictions on debits to Exter- nal Accounts. Credits to these accounts for what- ever purpose are freely permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$10,000. The proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to External Accounts. For amounts exceeding M$10,000, permission may be given by authorized commercial banks. Balances in External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any currency except Israeli and South African cur- rencies. Accounts of residents of Israel and South Africa are designated as Israeli Accounts and South African Accounts, respectively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have been fully unified. Depending on the nature and origin of the goods, import licenses are required for certain imports as specified in the Customs (Prohibition of Imports) Order 1988, for reasons of health, security, or public policy; various conditions must be satisfied before import licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quantitative restrictions as a temporary 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 302 MALAYSIA measure to protect local industries. These restric- tions are reviewed from time to time. Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of motor vehicles are subject to an import license with quantitative restrictions (quota). Move- ments of live animals between Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak are subject to movement per- mits issued by the Veterinary Department. Imports of meat, bones, hides, skin, hooves, horns, and offal of any animal or any portion thereof from India require an import license. Imports of primates re- quire an import license, subject to approval from the Department of Wildlife and National Parks. Pay- ments for permitted imports valued up to M$l 0,000 from any country other than Israel and South Africa may be made without restriction after exchange con- trol requirements have been met. Payments in ex- cess of M$10,000 require completion of forms and approval by any authorized commercial bank. Raw materials and machinery for the manufactur- ing sector are eligible for preferential duty treat- ment as follows: (1) raw materials for production of goods for the domestic market that are not manufac- tured locally are subject to a reduced rate of duty or tax of 3 percent; (2) manufacturers for the domestic market can be further exempted from this 3 percent duty or tax if they comply with the New Economic Policy in terms of equity participation, manage- ment, and employment structure; (3) in the case of companies manufacturing products for the export market, full exemption from duty or tax is granted when local materials are competitive in price and quality; (4) all customs duties and sales tax on im- ported machinery and equipment that are unavail- able locally and used in the manufacturing process can be considered for exemption; and (5) import duty drawback can be claimed by any manufacturer on imported raw materials or components that are incorporated in the finished products and exported within a year, provided that evidence of export performance and importation of raw materials is submitted. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made without re- striction after exchange control requirements have been met. There is no restriction on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, royal- ties, and profits on all bona fide investments are permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts in excess of M$10,000. There is no restriction on the export of currency notes by travelers. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are totally pro- hibited. Exports of sawlogs above 40 centimeters in diameter from Peninsular Malaysia are prohibited. For sawlogs of 40 centimeters and below in diame- ter, only those species other than the 27 banned species are allowed to be exported. The customs areas and export control systems between the three territories of Malaysia have been harmonized. Ex- change control forms have to be completed for ex- ports valued at more than M$20,000 f.o.b. a ship- ment (for exports to Indonesia, forms are not required except when exports are valued at more than M$100,000). Proceeds from exports must be received according to the timing of payments spec- ified in the commercial contract, but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of export, in any foreign currency except the curren- cies of Israel and South Africa, or in ringgit from an External Account. This regulation does not apply to commercial samples or goods exported for repair or exchange. Exports of rubber from Peninsular Mal- aysia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports of tiles, bricks, minerals, rice and paddy in whatever form, milk and specified milk products, textiles, and all other goods as specified in the second sched- ule of the Customs (Prohibition of Exports) Order, 1978, of the 1967 Customs Act are subject to licensing. Export incentives are provided to companies ex- porting Malaysian products. The main incentives include abatement of adjusted income for manufac- tured exports, an export allowance for agricultural products, double deduction of expenses incurred in overseas promotion, export credit financing, and duty drawbacks. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control authorities do not regulate exchange receipts from invisibles, but receipts from exports are subject to exchange control. No limita- tion is imposed on the import of currency notes by travelers. Capital Inward investment covered by the guidelines is- sued on February 20,1974 (regarding the acquisition of assets, mergers, and takeovers) requires prior approval by the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC). The guidelines stipulate that the approval of the FIC is required for any acquisition of Malaysian assets or interests exceeding M$5 million in value. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 303 In respect of acquisition of equity interest in a Mal- aysian incorporated company, for any proposed ac- quisition of 15 percent or more of the voting power by any foreign interest or associated group or by foreign interests in the aggregate of 30 percent or more, the approval of the FIC is still needed even if the value involved is less than M$5 million. However, incorporation of a Malaysian company by a foreign interest does not require the approval of the FIC; any subsequent transaction by the com- pany that is covered by the guidelines, including increasing its paid-up capital, would need its approval. Foreign investors are permitted to hold whatever level of equity up to 100 percent if the company exports 80 percent or more of its production, whether or not the company's products compete with products presently being manufactured locally for the domestic market. For projects that involve the extraction or exploita- tion of nonrenewable resources, majority foreign equity participation of up to 100 percent is permit- ted. In the determination of the percentage for these projects, criteria such as level of investment, tech- nology, risk involved, availability of Malaysian ex- pertise in the area of exploration, the degree of inte- gration, and level of value added involved are taken into consideration. Foreign investors are allowed to hold equity of up to 100 percent for a period of five years from the date of production in manufacturing and agricultural projects where local participation cannot be found, subject to the following conditions: (1) the company must export at least 20 percent of its production; (2) foreign investors must negotiate with the Minis- try of Trade and Industry if they cannot find local partners; and (3) for agricultural projects, the ap- proval of the State Government with regard to land ownership is required. For new hotel and tourist projects, foreign equity ownership of up to 100 percent is allowed for five years from the date of operation. After five years, the foreign equity ownership distribution will be subject to the same guidelines as those that apply to the manufacturing sector. Foreign investors whose applications are received during the period of October 1, 1986-December 31, 1990 are also permitted to hold whatever level of equity up to 100 percent, if the company exports 50 percent or more of its production or employs 350 full-time Malaysian workers and the products do not compete with products presently being man- ufactured locally for the domestic market. Export sales are defined to include sales to free trade zones and licensed manufacturing warehouses. The proceeds of investments may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the completion of ex- change control forms for amounts above M$10,000. Companies in Malaysia controlled by nonresidents are permitted to borrow in Malaysia up to M$10 million without exchange control approval, pro- vided that total credit facilities obtained by the bor- rower in Malaysia do not exceed M$10 million, and that at least 60 percent of the borrower's total do- mestic credit facilities are obtained from commercial banks and other financial institutions incorporated in Malaysia. The permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is freely given for direct and port- folio investments by Malaysian residents in coun- tries other than Israel and South Africa, provided that they have not obtained any domestic credit. If an investor has any domestic credit, such invest- ments require prior approval from the Central Bank. Commercial banks are not encouraged to give loans to finance investments abroad that are considered unlikely to lead to long-term benefits for the econ- omy; such funds should be used to finance the expansion of productive capacity in Malaysia. Com- mercial banks are permitted to have a long or a short foreign exchange position up to M$400,000 for each foreign currency without specific approval from the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Borrowing in foreign currencies from nonresi- dents may be made freely for loans of M$l million or less, provided that the total outstanding amount owed by the borrower to nonresidents, including undrawn facilities, does not exceed the equivalent of M$l million; beyond that amount, permission must be obtained from the Controller of Foreign Exchange, stating the main terms and conditions of the loan and the purpose for which the loan pro- ceeds would be used. However, loans in foreign currencies in excess of the equivalent of M$200,000 and up to the equivalent of M$l million must be reported to the Controller of Foreign Exchange. For- eign borrowing in ringgit of any amount requires prior approval, and such approval is normally not granted. Service payments on approved foreign loans may be permitted by the commercial banks on behalf of the Controller, provided these payments are in accordance with the approved terms and con- ditions of the loans. Commercial banks and mer- chant banks in Malaysia can lend in foreign cur- rency to residents and accept deposits in foreign currency from nonresidents. Loans in foreign cur- rency by banks in Malaysia must be for business and productive purposes in Malaysia, including (but not exclusively) payment for the import of goods and services, payment of interest or repay- ment of principal on loans from nonresidents, or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 304 MALAYSIA payment for the purchase from nonresidents of im- movable properties in Malaysia or stocks and shares. In addition, for the purchase of property or shares (1) the FIC must give its approval; (2) the amount borrowed must not exceed the equivalent of M$25 million; and (3) repayment of principal cannot be made with funds borrowed in ringgit from resi- dents. The approval of the Controller is required for all other foreign currency loans. As an incentive, interest paid to nonresidents by the commercial banks is exempted from payment of the 20 percent withholding tax. Intercompany accounts, which exclude proceeds from the export of Malaysian goods and proceeds from loans extended to Malaysian companies, can be maintained with associate companies outside Malaysia, provided monthly returns are submitted to the Controller. In addition, companies located in free trade zones, or those that are licensed ware- houses may, with prior permission from the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange, be allowed to offset their export proceeds through intercompany ac- counts against payables to their affiliated or parent companies overseas for the supply of raw materials and components. Gold Residents of Malaysia are freely permitted to deal (i.e., purchase, sell, import, export, borrow, etc.) in gold in whatever state or form with any person except residents of Israel and South Africa. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments March 3. The licensing requirement for imports from the People's Republic of China was abolished. Capital July 19. Foreign stock brokerage firms were al- lowed to increase their equity share in local bro- kerage firms from 30 percent to 49 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Maldives is the Maldivian Rufiyaa. Since March 1, 1987, the Maldives Mone- tary Authority (MMA) has followed a floating ex- change rate policy under which the exchange rate has been determined by demand and supply condi- tions in the market. The midpoint exchange rate of the rufiyaa in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 31,1988 was Rf 8.525 = US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk operating in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation. Trade regulations are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industries, which also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Since March 1,1987, all settlement of tourism bills must be made in foreign currency. There are no restrictions on maintaining balances in foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents; and there are no restrictions on keeping foreign currency balances. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Import operations may be conducted only after being registered and licensed at the Ministry of Trade and Industries. Staple commodities (such as rice, wheat, flour, sugar), medicines, and petroleum products are mainly imported by the State Trading Organization. Ad valorem import duties are calcu- lated on the c .i .f. value of imports. Duty rates on daily necessities and essentials range from 5 to 30 percent, and those on luxuries and items that are not essential for economic development range from 35 to 200 percent. Some items imported for personal use are exempted from duty. Payments for Invisibles Travelers may take out any amount in domestic or foreign currency without any restrictions. Tourist resorts, hotels, and guest houses must pay their taxes and rent in foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Export operations may be conducted only after being registered and licensed at the Ministry of Trade and Industries. Exports of black coral and tortoise shells are prohibited, except in the form of a product. An export duty is levied on ambergris ex- ported by a Maldivian, goods exported by a Maldi- vian jointly with a foreigner, and goods exported by a foreigner; re-exports are exempt. Exporters of du- tiable goods are required to import goods or foreign exchange equal to the value of the goods exported, within the time period specified in the license. In the case of duty-free exports, other than fish caught outside the 75-mile zone from the shore line, export- ers may, at the request of the Government, be re- quired to import specified goods in an amount not exceeding 33 percent of the value of the goods ex- ported; this requirement has not been applied to date. Proceeds from Invisibles Private sector receipts from current invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the foreign exchange market. Trav- elers may bring in any amount of foreign currency without restriction. Capital Residents and nonresidents may freely import and export capital through the foreign exchange market, and residents do not require permission to maintain foreign currency accounts at home or abroad. Inward direct investment requires ap- proval. All foreign investors are required to provide at least 75 percent of their capital investment either in the form of cash or in capital goods financed from outside Maldives. Transfers of profits are permit- ted, and exemptions from taxes other than tourism may be granted for a period of up to ten years. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 306 MALDIVES Gold Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form, at home or abroad, and the import and export of gold are not restricted. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments April 1. Import licenses were issued for new im- porters (previously licenses had been based on the value of imports in 1985), raising the number of licensed importers to 258 from 200. At the same time, the import quota for the period April 1988- March 1989 was raised by 30 percent. May 1. Import duties on consumer goods were reduced. December 25. Import duties on a number of basic necessities were reduced, effective from January 1, 1989. December 26. Import quotas were abolished, effec- tive from January 1, 1989. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mali is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for all other currencies that are officially quoted on the Paris exchange market are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currencies concerned. The BCEAO levies commissions of 0.1 per mill and 2.5 per mill, respectively, on transfers to or from nonmembers of the West African Monetary Union (WAMU). The banks also charge a separate commis- sion, a portion of which is transferred to the Trea- sury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange rate cover is authorized only for import payments to be effected through docu- mentary credits, and cover for other means of im- port payments requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance and Commerce. There are no official schemes for currency swaps or guaran- teed exchange rate for external debt servicing. With the exception of measures relating to the repatriation of export proceeds, Mali's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco, and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central Afri- can Republic, Chad, the Comoros, Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are consid- ered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Commerce has sole authority in exchange control matters; certain ex- change control powers have been delegated to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The bilateral pay- ments agreement accounts2 are operated by the De- 1The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Mali maintains bilateral payments agreements with the Peo- ple's Republic of China, Hungary, Morocco, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. With the exception of those with the People's Republic of China and the U.S.S.R., these agreements are inoperative. velopment Bank of Mali. Licenses for imports and exports are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies and through accounts established under such agreements. Since Mali has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other member of the French Franc Area. Settlements with all other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Settle- ments with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are, in principle, based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed directly to the BCEAO Agency in Bamako by foreign correspondents of the authorized banks; such notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs opened by these correspondents with an autho- rized bank in Mali. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited without prior authorization with BCEAO bank notes mailed directly by authorized intermedi- aries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments The revised trade regulations introduced in 1986 establish three categories of imports: (1) imports admitted freely and requiring only an import certifi- cate (Regime A); (2) imports subject to quotas and 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 308 MALI requiring an import license (Regime B); and (3) imports subject to special prohibitions for rea- sons of security, public health, etc. (Regime C). Im- ports originating in a member country of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) are subject to Regime A; some products from EC (European Communities) countries, such as foodstuffs and other basic necessities, are also included in Regime A. Other products from the EC countries, such as luxury consumer goods and products that compete with local production, are subject to quotas under Regime B, as are all commodities from all other countries. Imports financed directly from foreign resources, for example, from grants, foreign invest- ment, or development loans, are admitted virtually freely under Regime A. Imports from Israel, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports are licensed in accordance with an an- nual import program. A license is valid for six months but, if necessary, may be extended for a further period of three months. However, the sys- tem is implemented flexibly, and licenses in excess of the program are issued for justified need or un- foreseen circumstances. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require autho- rization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are subject to approval. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account may obtain an annual ex- change allocation equivalent to CEAF 250,000 a per- son (CFAF 125,000 for children under 10 years), which may be used on several occasions during the year; any unused foreign exchange must be surren- dered to an authorized intermediary within eight days of the traveler's return to Mali. For business travel, the allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 250,000 a trip.3 Residents traveling to foreign countries may 3Exchange for tourist travel purposes is made available only to persons submitting an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Security Services. take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, or the equivalent in Bank of France bank notes, or bank notes issued by other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign bank notes up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000; higher amounts may be taken out only if declared upon entry. They may also take out CFAF 50,000 in BCEAO bank notes, or the equivalent in Bank of France bank notes, or bank notes issued by other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account, and any payments instruments drawn up abroad in their name. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period or where there is a reciprocity agreement with the foreigner's country of nationality. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be recorded with an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, including those originating in France and other countries linked to the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account, must be repatriated and surren- dered within 30 days of payment due date or within 90 days of shipment if no payment date is specified in the sales contract. All exports require only a certificate. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the coun- tries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all in- come earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Mali, France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of restrictions; capital transfers to all other countries require authorization from the Ministry of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI 309 Finance and Commerce and are restricted, but capi- tal receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, although the De- velopment Bank of Mali is exempt from these controls. The special control measures also do not apply to relations with France (as defined above) and the countries linked to the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Under the Investment Code of January 24, 1986, the Government may grant special privileged sta- tus, providing for transfer, tax, and other preferen- tial treatment to foreign investments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic Plan. Gold Travelers may export gold jewelry and personal belongings, other than gold coin and ingots, up to a maximum weight of 500 grams. Commercial im- ports and exports of gold do not require authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce but are subject to all foreign trade regulations, including bank domiciliation, customs declaration, and the obligation to repatriate export proceeds. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments June 30. Quotas on ten products were removed. October 31. The Societe Malienne d'Import-Export was abolished, and its activities were transferred to the private sector. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malta is the Maltese Lira. The value of the Maltese lira is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Maltese lira and a transactions-weighted basket of currencies1 representing Malta's important trading partners. The daily exchange rate between the Maltese lira and the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is derived by adding up the latest dollar values of the currency components of the Maltese lira basket; the midday quotations in Hong Kong are normally used in the computations. In dealings with the commer- cial banks, a spread of 0.125 percent is applied on the middle rate to compute the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and for the various other currencies quoted by the Central Bank. On Decem- ber 30, 1988 the buying and selling rates for the Maltese lira in terms of the U.S. dollar in such deal- ings were US$3.0145 and US$3.0069, respectively, per Lm 1. The Central Bank also quotes daily rates for various other currencies, including the deutsche mark, the Italian lira, and the pound sterling, on the basis of the rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the principal exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank's basic rate (mid- dle rate) for the pound sterling was £ stg. 1.6775 per Lm 1. The commercial banks' rates for currencies not quoted by the Central Bank are based on the latest market rates as reported by Reuters. These rates are treated as provisional, and are quoted on request. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial banks are obliged to cover with the Central Bank any forward contracts entered into with their customers in the currencies included in the basket as well as in the European Currency Unit (ECU). Any forward contract concluded between a bank and a customer must be accompanied by a similar contract between the bank and the Central Bank. The forward facilities offered by the Central Bank to the commercial banks are intended to provide cover for firm contractual commitments for current transactions—i.e., payments and receipts pertaining to merchandise trade and other invisible transactions. Capital transactions are excluded. The Central Bank assumes all the exchange risk entailed Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and SDKs. in its forward contracts with the commercial banks. The Central Bank also provides forward cover di- rectly to government departments and various parastatal bodies in respect of imports. The Central Bank of Malta offers a guaranteed exchange rate for the pound sterling to operators of tours from the United Kingdom. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Cen- tral Bank, as agent for the Minister of Finance; trade controls are administered by the Director of Trade in the Ministry for Development of the Tertiary Sector. The approval authority for the allocation of foreign exchange for certain purposes has been delegated to the authorized banks. They may also give or renew guarantees and idemnities for any purpose, for the account of both residents and nonresidents. In the latter case, the authorized banks must hold full cash cover in external Maltese liri or foreign currency or foreign securities for the period of the guarantee. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Maltese liri to an External Ac- count or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Maltese liri from an External Account or in any foreign currency. Bilateral trade and payments agreements are maintained with a number of countries.3 Outstand- ing balances under these agreements are settled in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Malta may maintain with authorized banks nonresident ac- counts in Maltese liri, designated External Ac- counts. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments to nonresidents, with trans- fers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of gold or any foreign currency (including bank notes). External Accounts may be 2Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Maltese lira. 3As of December 31, 1988, Malta maintained bilateral pay- ments agreements with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Poland, and Turkey. 310 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA 311 debited freely for payments to residents, for trans- fers to other External Accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any foreign currency (including bank notes). Authorized dealers may freely open and main- tain Foreign Currency Accounts for nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with payments in foreign currency to the account holder, with trans- fers from another foreign currency account belong- ing to a nonresident, and with interest payable on Foreign Currency Accounts. They may be debited for payments by the account holder to residents, for transfers to other Foreign Currency Accounts, and for transfers abroad. Subject to exchange control permission, companies controlled by nonresidents or residents may maintain Foreign Currency Ac- counts in Malta or abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are subject to licens- ing requirements. The importation, in finished form, of certain goods that can be produced domes- tically is restricted; this restriction covers more than 60 different products, mostly leather goods, textile goods, chocolate, confectionery biscuits, and meat products. Certain imports are subject to state trad- ing. These include commodities, such as evapo- rated tinned milk, butter, meat, wheat, barley, corn, potatoes, soybean oil, sugar, certain tinned meat and fish, cheese, tea, fruit, and cement. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that the prescription of currency regulations are complied with and that supporting documents, including the customs entry form and the related import license, are submitted to the in- termediary bank. As a form of exchange cover, and subject to exchange control approval, residents may keep Foreign Currency Accounts to settle import payments; on the same basis, import payments may also be offset against export proceeds. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities, but approval au- thority for most types of payment has been dele- gated to authorized banks. In any calendar year, each person is entitled to an annual travel allowance of Lm 1,000. In the case of trips of five days or less (including persons traveling abroad and returning within the same day), the allowance is set at a max- imum of Lm 50 a day. In the case of trips of six days and over, the allowance a trip cannot exceed Lm 600. Persons who do not utilize any of their travel al- lowance during a calendar year are allowed to trans- fer Lm 300 to the following year, and this amount can be utilized only if the traveler avails himself of this amount in addition to the full allowance of Lm 600 (i.e., a maximum of Lm 900) during the first trip of the year and if the trip is at least six days in duration. On return to Malta, any unutilized por- tion of the travel allowance, including the special extra allowance of Lm 300, must be surrendered. Business travelers are allowed an exchange alloca- tion equivalent to Lm 100 a day per person, subject to a limit of Lm 2,000 a trip. Frequent business travelers may obtain a blanket six-month authoriza- tion with actual expenses reconciled every six months or upon exhaustion of the funds authorized. Expenses defrayed in advance in Malta in connec- tion with overseas trips are not counted as part of the foreign exchange allowance. Requests beyond the specified limits require the exceptional consid- eration of the Central Bank. The allowance for edu- cational expenses abroad is the equivalent of Lm 5,000 a person for an academic year.4 Applica- tions for allowances in excess of these amounts are approved by the Central Bank if it is satisfied that no illicit capital outflow is involved. Nonresident trav- elers may import any amount of foreign currency and may export foreign currency up to the amount brought in by them and declared to customs on entry. The transfer of profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments requires central bank permission, which is normally given, after compliance with certain formalities. Life insurance expressed in Malta currency may be contracted only with insurance companies that are duly licensed as required under the Insurance Business Act, 1981. Remittances for the maintenance of dependents abroad are allowed on application showing evidence of hardship. Up to Lm 25 in Maltese notes and coins may be exported by a traveler. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of works of art and certain essential goods, all commodities may be exported freely. However, certain textile products for export to EC (European Communities) countries, Norway, and Sweden are subject to license or certificate. The proceeds of exports must be received and surren- dered within six months of shipment and be surren- dered within a reasonable period. Under an Export 4For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study, residents are defined as physical persons who are at the time living in Malta and either have lived there for at least three years or intend to continue living there for at least three years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 312 MALTA Stabilization Scheme, exporters receive a subsidy calculated on the basis of the appreciation of the Maltese lira against the currency in which the in- voice is expressed and the value added by the export firm. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes, but, without an authorization by the Minister of Finance, importa- tion of any notes and coin that are or have been legal tender in Malta is permitted only up to Lm 50. Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts, al- though receipts in foreign currencies must be of- fered for sale to an authorized bank. Payments abroad of a capital nature require prior approval. Applications for outward direct investment by resi- dents and for direct investment in Malta by nonresi- dents are considered on their merits. The Immov- able Property (Acquisition by Nonresidents) Act, 1974, administered by the Ministry of Finance, pro- hibits the acquisition of immovable property in Malta by nonresidents,5 with the exception of cer- tain special cases mainly related to economic de- velopment. Applications for the acquisition of prop- erty for use as a residence by individuals who do not already hold property in Malta are given favor- able consideration. Purchases of personal real estate situated outside Malta require prior exchange con- trol approval. Foreign nationals who take up residence outside Malta normally are allowed to transfer all their as- 5For the purposes of this Act, the term nonresidents means (1) individuals who are not residents of Malta but excluding Maltese citizens living abroad or foreign spouses of citizens of Malta; and (2) any association of persons, or any entity, whether corporate or not, if (a) it is registered outside Malta, (b) it has its principal place of residence or business outside Malta, (c) 20 per- cent or more of its shares or other capital is owned by a nonresi- dent person, or (d) it is in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, controlled by one or more nonresident persons. sets to their new country of residence. Maltese na- tionals who emigrate may transfer abroad up to the equivalent of Lm 15,000 for each family; any excess amount is normally released over a period of three years in three equal instalments after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank. Banks, other than those licensed to borrow and lend only outside Malta, are restricted in the acquisition of net foreign assets. Gold Malta has issued 23 denominations of gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents are allowed to hold coin and to acquire jewelry, but they require exchange control permission to purchase and sell any gold coin that is not legal tender. The import of gold coins is controlled to ensure that such coins are genuinely for numismatic purposes. A specific im- port license is required for imports of gold coin, gold bullion, and manufactured or semimanufactured articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold or silver are prohibited. Subject to exchange control permission, authorized importers may import gold bullion only to supply jewelers and other industrial users. The export of gold by residents other than the monetary authorities also requires exchange control permission. Gold bullion and gold coin are free of import duty. Changes During 1988 Payments for Invisibles January 1. The annual travel allowance was re- duced from Lm 1,500 to Lm 1,000, with no restric- tions on the number of trips; the previous allowance consisted of Lm 500 for the first trip and Lm 250 for additional trips, subject to a limit of five trips a year. The settling-in allowance for Maltese emigrants was doubled to Lm 15,000. Various other exchange con- trols were eased, including payments for advertise- ments abroad, life insurance premia, education al- lowances, subscriptions of periodicals, directors' fees, and inheritance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mauritania is the Mauritanian Ouguiya. The exchange rate for the ouguiya is de- termined on the basis of a basket of currencies com- prising the Belgian franc, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Italian lira, the Spanish peseta, and the U.S. dollar. The relative weights assigned to these currencies are based on the currencies' rela- tive importance in Mauritania's total exchange transactions and are revised from time to time. The opening spot rates of the currencies in the basket against the U.S. dollar on the Paris exchange market are used for determining the ouguiya's daily ex- change rate against the U.S. dollar. Daily exchange rates for 17 other currencies,1 including the curren- cies used in the basket, are obtained from the daily reference rate for the U.S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the Paris exchange market. On December 30,1988, the midpoint exchange rate of the ouguiya in terms of the U.S. dollar was UM 75.71 = US$1. Commissions of 0.75 percent are applied in re- spect of purchase and sale transactions through commercial bank accounts, and commissions of 1.75 percent are applied in respect of purchase and sale transactions involving traveler's checks and for- eign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. A quarterly average exchange rate is applied for foreign clearing transactions of the Postal Admin- istration. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sectors. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the Ministry of Commerce. The Central Bank has delegated to authorized banks power to conduct transactions through convertible ouguiya accounts that have been approved by the Central Bank. The Central Bank is authorized to obtain any informa- tion necessary to compile balance of payments sta- tistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Admin- istration. Import and export licenses, where re- quired, are issued by the Foreign Trade Department in the Ministry of Commerce. All import licenses require exchange control approval by the Central Bank.2 Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Settlements with other countries usu- ally take place in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of nonresident accounts: Convertible Ouguiya Accounts and Convertible Foreign Currency Accounts. Convertible Ouguiya Accounts may be credited only with transfers from other Convertible Ouguiya Accounts and with 15 percent of the repatriated proceeds from fish exports through the Mauritanian Fish Marketing Company. These accounts may be debited in for- eign currency only for expenses relating to ex- porters' production activities. Convertible Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited only with pro- ceeds from the sale of foreign currency and trans- fers from other Convertible Foreign Currency Ac- counts; they may be debited for any payment without central bank approval, but payments and withdrawals from these accounts may not be made in foreign bank notes without the prior approval of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited, and imports of a few goods are prohibited for reasons of health or public policy. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in import transactions. Prepayment of the minimum turnover tax in the amount of UM 300,000 is neces- sary to obtain the card. Imports of all goods must be authorized by the Ministry of Commerce and by the Central Bank. The National Import-Export Corpora- tion (SONIMEX) has a monopoly over imports of sugar, rice, and green tea. Although there is no Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi rial, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2However, the state mining enterprise (SNIM) is exempted f rom all import-licensing requirements, and the National Import- Export Corporation (SONIMEX) is exempted from exchange control approval by the Central Bank. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 314 MAURITANIA formal quantitative import program, an annual im- port plan is established on the basis of projected foreign exchange receipts, and import authorization is granted within that framework. Import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, except in the case of imports di- rectly financed from abroad. After the import li- cense has been obtained from the Ministry of Com- merce and the foreign exchange transaction approved by the Central Bank, the importer is en- titled to purchase the necessary foreign exchange, but not earlier than ten days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or eight days before the payment is due if the goods have already ar- rived. Advance payments for imports require prior approval of the Central Bank. The Central Bank authorizes only the payment of import bills quoting c. & f. prices, and all imports must be insured with the Mauritanian State Insurance and Reinsurance Company (SMAR). There are special arrangements for imports in border areas. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Payments for invisibles to other countries are subject to the approval of the Central Bank, which has delegated its approval authority for im- port payments (c. & f.) to authorized banks. Basic exchange allocations have been established for various types of invisibles. For tourist travel, residents may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to UM 10,000 a person (UM 5,000 for children under 10 years). For business travel, the allocations are the equivalent of UM 50,000 a person a trip to African countries, UM 90,000 to Europe, and UM 120,000 to other destinations; annual limits range from UM 100,000 to UM 800,000, depending on the applicant's business turnover. Bona fide re- quests for higher amounts for travel may be granted on a case-by-case basis. The use of all travel alloca- tions must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet. The transfer of savings from salaries by foreigners working in Mauritania is permitted up to varying percentages, according to marital status. At the end of their stay in Mauritania, they may trans- fer all their assets abroad. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all countries in excess of UM 5,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Ex- porters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. Exports to all countries require authorization and endorsement by the Central Bank. Export proceeds must be sur- rendered not later than the due date of the receipt, which normally must not be more than 60 days after the date of shipment. Exports of iron ore are the monopoly of the National Industrial and Mining Company (SNIM), and exports of demersal fish are the monopoly of the Mauritanian Fish Marketing Company (SMCP). A special exemption applies to the repatriation of export proceeds of SNIM. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered. All amounts due from nonresidents in respect of services and all income earned abroad from foreign assets must be collected and surren- dered within four months of the due date of the payment. The importation of domestic bank notes by travelers is prohibited. Capital Transfers of capital between Mauritania and Is- rael and between Mauritania and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Mauri- tania and all foreign countries are subject to ex- change control; capital transfers to all countries re- quire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts normally are permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indicated below. All investments abroad by residents require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Foreign direct investments in Mauritania3 and Mauritanian direct investments abroad4 must be declared to the Cen- tral Bank before they are made. The Central Bank has the right to request the postponement of the projects within 15 days from receipt of the declara- tion. The full or partial liquidation of inward or outward investment also requires a declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether Mauritanian investments abroad or for- eign investments in Mauritania, must be reported to the Central Bank within 20 days following each op- eration. Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. Including those made by companies in Mauritania that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Mauritania of foreign companies. including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mauritania and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Mauritania. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 315 Mere participation is not considered as direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania requires prior au- thorization by the Central Bank, as does borrowing by residents from nonresidents. The Investment Code (Ordinance No. 79046 of March 15, 1979) provides for various benefits for private investments in Mauritania and stipulates that profits and dividends accruing from such in- vestment can be transferred freely. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. All imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Exempt from this requirement are imports and exports by the Central Bank and man- ufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement During the year, the external value of the ouguiya was adjusted on several occasions against the basket of currencies used for determining its exchange rate, resulting in the change in the exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar from UM 71.59 = US$1 at the end of December 1987 to UM 75.71 = US$1 at the end of December 1988. Nonresident Accounts September 1. Exporters of the fisheries sector were authorized to retain up to 15 percent of the proceeds in a Convertible Ouguiya Account. Imports and Import Payments June 1. The import-licensing requirement for small enterprises was simplified, and only foreign exchange authorizations by the Central Bank were required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mauritius is the Mauritian Rupee, the external value of which is determined on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of currencies of Mauritius' major trading partners. Buying and selling rates for foreign currencies are quoted by the Bank of Mauritius (central bank) with asymmetrical margins, amounting to 0.125 percent (buying) and 0.25 percent (selling) in respect of exchange transactions in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, and 0.1875 percent (buying) and 0.25 per- cent (selling) in respect of exchange transactions in French francs, using rates obtained on the basis of the fixed peg to the basket of currencies. On Decem- ber 30,1988, the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Mauritius (telegraphic) were Mau Rs 24.8731 and Mau Rs 24.9665, respectively, per £ stg. 1; Mau Rs 13.8839 and Mau Rs 13.9361, respectively, per US$1; and Mau Rs 2.2755 and Mau Rs 2.2855, respectively, per F 1. Commercial banks are authorized to deal in the French franc, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dol- lar at rates based on the rates quoted by the Bank of Mauritius for these currencies. Spreads allowed be- tween buying and selling rates of the commercial banks for transactions by telegraphic transfers are up to 1 percent for transactions in the pound ster- ling, 1.25 percent for the U.S. dollar, 1.6 percent for the French franc, 2.25 percent for the Japanese yen and the Swiss franc, and 2.375 percent for the deut- sche mark. Commercial banks' buying and selling rates for other foreign currencies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the London market and the cost of forward cover in appropriate cases. Forward exchange facilities in pounds ster- ling, French francs, and U.S. dollars are made avail- able by the Bank of Mauritius for industries operat- ing in the Export Processing Zone (EPZ) and for banks engaged in foreign borrowing for on-lending to the sugar sector. The maximum period for for- ward cover is six months; the forward rates are based on a uniform margin of 3 percent a year. In addition, companies operating in the EPZ and other Mauritian exporters and traders dealing in priority imports are authorized to engage in forward cover transactions in foreign exchange markets abroad through their banks in Mauritius. Companies op- JThe exchange control regulations of Mauritius def ine foreign currencies as all currencies other than the Mauritian rupee. erating in the EPZ and the service zone and certain other companies are authorized to maintain with local commercial banks accounts denominated in foreign currencies. They may retain the foreign cur- rency proceeds f rom exports in foreign currency accounts for a reasonable period of time to meet payments for their imports. A stamp duty of 45 per- cent is applied to authorized outward transfers of capital (other than banking funds and repatriation of approved foreign investments) and, under cer- tain conditions, to purchases of gold coin and gold bullion. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated to it by the Fi- nancial Secretary. Commercial banks, as agents of the Bank of Mauritius, are authorized to approve and effect payments for current transactions. The Ministry of Trade and Shipping is responsible for the issuance of import and export permits, where required. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Mauri- tian rupees from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. Similarly, payments from nonresidents may be received in Mauritian rupees f rom a nonresident account or in any con- vertible foreign currency. A bilateral payments agreement is maintained with Madagascar. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened by residents and firms of other countries and may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mauritius, (2) any transfers f rom other external ac- counts, and (3) the proceeds of sales to an autho- rized dealer of any convertible foreign currency by nonresidents. These accounts may be debited for (1) any payment to residents of Mauritius, (2) any transfers to other external accounts, and (3) the cost of purchase of any convertible foreign currency or gold. The "Nonresident (External Account) Scheme/' reintroduced on September 25, 1985, is intended to provide Mauritians abroad with incen- tives to transfer their savings to Mauritius and to open accounts with commercial banks in Mauritius in rupees in the fo rm of savings or fixed deposit 316 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS 317 accounts and in designated foreign currencies in the form of term deposits with a minimum period of one year. Interest on such deposits is exempted from income tax. As long as they are abroad, holders of such accounts are free to transfer at any time balances held therein, together with interest. Any related exchange risk involved in maintaining accounts in designated foreign currencies is borne by the Bank of Mauritius. In addition to the above, there are also Blocked Accounts to which are credited funds owned by persons and firms resident outside Mauritius and realized from investments made by them before April 5, 1966, as well as funds representing emi- grants' assets in excess of Mau Rs 200,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments by resi- dents of Mauritius that have been specifically autho- rized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from Blocked Accounts may, with approval, be in- vested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such investments, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Account. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be licensed under the Licenses Ordinance. Under the Supplies (Control of Imports) Regulations of 1982, all imports other than goods exempted or prohibited, as specified in the third and fourth schedules, respectively, require import permits from the Ministry of Trade and Shipping; the permits are essentially for statistical and tax purposes. Commercial banks are authorized to ap- prove and transfer funds for import payments with- out limit. Certain imports are subject to customs surcharges; a stamp duty of 17 percent based on the c .i .f. value is levied on most imports. Local commer- cial banks are discouraged from extending credit for imports of goods of lower priority. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports are per- mitted without restriction. Foreign exchange for for- eign travel and gift remittances may be provided up to specified limits by the commercial banks without prior reference to the central bank. The basic per- sonal travel allowance is the equivalent of £ stg. 1,200 a person for every two calendar years for travel to any country. A 10 percent tax, together with a surcharge of 10 percent thereon, is levied on all air tickets purchased by Mauritian residents for international travel. The allowance for business travel is the equivalent of £ stg. 100 a day plus £ stg. 20 a day for entertainment expenses. Resi- dents may hold international credit cards and use them for paying travel expenses abroad, subject to the terms and conditions set by the central bank. There are established limits for payments and trans- fers in respect of family support, salary remittances by non-Mauritian nationals, gifts, trade commis- sions, subscriptions to clubs and societies, publish- ing rights, advertising outside Mauritius, royalties, professional and technical services, education, and leave salaries. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be granted by the ex- change control authorities. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident trav- elers may take out any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, platinum, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art are pro- hibited, unless permission is obtained from the Fi- nancial Secretary. All exports valued at more than Mau Rs 1,000 and all exports of food products val- ued at over Mau Rs 50 require an export permit from the Ministry of Trade and Shipping. Exports of cer- tain foodstuffs, including fruits, are controlled. The Mauritius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar. A graduated tax is levied on sugar exports at the rate of 15.75 percent of f .o .b. value for export volume within the range of 1,001-3,000 tons, and 23.625 percent for exports exceeding 3,000 tons. All export proceeds in any currency other than Mauri- tian rupees must be repatriated within six months after shipments and offered for sale to an autho- rized dealer. However, permission may be given to large export-import companies to retain export pro- ceeds for a reasonable period of time to meet pay- ments for imports. Exports to Canada and the United States of knit shirts and sweaters of cotton, wool, and man-made fibers are effected under bilateral export restraint agreements. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coin that may be imported, but not more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coin may be imported by travelers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 318 MAURITIUS Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Out- ward transfers of capital are subject to certain re- strictions. Nonbank residents of Mauritius may, subject to permission, transfer a reasonable amount of capital to any country on payment of a 45 percent stamp duty. Nonresidents also require permission to transfer capital to any country; such transfers are subject to a 35 percent stamp duty. Foreign-owned companies may freely transfer abroad dividends, profits, and interest on capital. Permission for re- patriation of capital is not granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the country of origin. Proceeds from the sale, liquida- tion, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatri- ated must be credited to Blocked Accounts. However, permission for repatriation of capital is normally given for capital brought in on or after April 5, 1966. Repatriation of capital by foreign in- vestors is tax free up to the amount of original in- vestment. Any capital gains are blocked. The blocked funds may, however, be released either for transfer abroad against payment of the 35 percent stamp duty, or for investment in Mauritius without payment of the stamp duty. Legislation permitting the establishment of off- shore banking facilities came into force on Jan- uary 1, 1989. Emigrants may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of stamp duty, the equivalent of Mau Rs 200,000 a family from their Mauritian assets when emigrating to any country; this facility is available upon redesignation as a nonresident, which occurs upon departure. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited to a Blocked Ac- count; any releases that may be approved for trans- fer abroad are subject to payment of the 35 percent stamp duty. Persons emigrating from Mauritius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the emigration facilities. However, they are entitled to foreign exchange allowances of up to the equivalent of £ stg. 200 a person to cover incidental expenses to be incurred in connection with travel to their new country of residence. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for numismatic purposes (gold bullion coins of Mau Rs 100, Mau Rs 250, Mau Rs 500, and Mau Rs 1,000, and such commem- orative gold coins as Mau Rs 200 and Mau Rs 1,000) or as personal jewelry and ornaments. The import and export of monetary gold are prohibited, except when made by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a specific import permit. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Pay- ments in respect of private imports of gold coin and gold bullion are subject to the 45 percent stamp duty. Imports of certain jewelry are subject to tem- porary customs surcharges. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments February 22. Wide-ranging reform of the customs tariff regime focusing on improving its administra- tion and use of international conventions for the product classification entered into force. July 1. Commercial banks were authorized to ap- prove and transfer funds for import settlement without restriction. Payments for Invisibles July 1. Commercial banks were authorized to provide foreign exchange for payments for invis- ibles relating to imports without restriction. July 1. Residents were allowed to hold interna- tional credit cards and use them to pay for travel expenses abroad subject to certain conditions. Capital July 1. The allowance for emigrants was increased from Mau Rs 100,000 to Mau Rs 200,000 a family. Gold November 12. The Bank of Mauritius began to is- sue gold bullion coins called "dodo" in four de- nominations, i.e., one ounce with a face value of Mau Rs 1,000, one half ounce with a face value of Mau Rs 500, one quarter ounce with a face value of Mau Rs 250, and one tenth of an ounce with a face value of Mau Rs 100. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mexico is the Mexican Peso. There are two exchange markets: the controlled market and the free market. In principle, the ex- change rate in the controlled market is adjusted daily on the basis, inter alia, of the following factors: (1) the demand and supply of foreign exchange in the controlled market; (2) the objective regarding an adequate level of international reserves; (3) the movement of domestic and foreign prices; and (4) movements in other exchange rate relation- ships.1 Transactions at the controlled market rate include (1) merchandise export receipts (with some exceptions); (2) payments by in-bond industries for wages, salaries, leasings or rents, and the purchase of Mexican goods and services, other than fixed assets; (3) royalties for the use of foreign tech- nologies and patents; (4) payments of principal, in- terest, and related expenses resulting from financial and suppliers' credits by the public and private sectors; (5) payments for imports with some excep- tions; (6) expenses in relation to the Mexican foreign service and contributions regarding Mexico's mem- bership in international organizations; and (7) other transactions specifically authorized by the Secre- tariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP). Eligible participants in the controlled market may choose to complete the transaction at a retail rate, agreed between participants and the banks, or at the "equilibrium exchange rate," which is deter- mined for the controlled market each day at a fixing session (in the Bank of Mexico), in which represen- tatives of the major banks exchange bids for pur- chases and sales of foreign exchange; the Bank of Mexico may also submit bids in these sessions. On December 30, 1988, the equilibrium exchange rate in the controlled market for the U.S. dollar was Mex$2,281 per US$1, and the buying and selling rates in the same market were Mex$2,241 and Mex$2,273 per US$1, respectively. Within the free market, no limitations apply to the access to, ownership, or transfer of foreign exchange. On December 30, 1988, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the free market were Mex$2,270 and Mex$2,330 per US$1, respectively. 1Frhe exchange rate in the controlled and free markets was held constant during March-December 1988. Beginning January 1, 1989, the peso is being depreciated daily against the U.S. dollar by preannounced fixed amounts. The Bank of Mexico provides, through the Trust Fund for the Coverage of Foreign Exchange Risk (FICORCA), an instrument for forward cover of for- eign exchange for the repayment of certain foreign debt obligations in respect of debt contracted or rescheduled on a long-term basis with foreign fi- nancial entities and suppliers. On January 5, 1987, the Bank of Mexico began to operate a short-term foreign exchange risk coverage market through which commercial and financial operations are cov- ered against exchange rate fluctuations. The scheme applies only to the U.S. dollar, and the coverage is based on the equilibrium exchange rate prevailing on the date of contract. All Mexican credit institutions are authorized to operate in the free market either directly or through their exchange houses. Mexican banks are pro- hibited from receiving domestic currency deposits from foreign financial institutions abroad or from non-Mexican exchange houses, except when such funds represent the counterpart of foreign currency sold to a Mexican bank for the purpose of a borrow- ing operation, or when authorized on a case-by-case basis by the Directorate of International Operations in the Bank of Mexico. Financial institutions located in the areas bordering the United States are permit- ted to open checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars for Mexican residents. On November 12,1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared formally to accept the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Foreign exchange policies are established by SHCP and the Bank of Mexico. The exchange control system is administered by the Bank of Mexico through Mexican credit institutions, which carry out most of the transactions in the controlled market. Prescription of Currency Apart from the exceptions described below, there are no obligations prescribing the method or cur- rency for payments to nonresidents, neither in the free nor in the controlled market, but obligations deriving from the selling of foreign exchange in the controlled market must be made in the currencies approved by the Bank of Mexico. In accordance with 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 320 MEXICO the payments agreements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela, controlled market payments to these countries must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Bank of Mexico and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Similar arrange- ments exist with Costa Rica, Cuba, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Yugoslavia. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses from the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Promotion (SECOFI) are required for 325 of the 11,951 items in Mexico's general import tariff, with the exception of temporary imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export production. For the items subject to licensing, ap- plications for import licenses may cover the appli- cant's import needs for six months. Import needs are estimated at 20 percent above previous actual imports but may be increased when justified. New licenses are issued only if the applicant can demon- strate that at least 70 percent of earlier licenses have been effectively used. For some commodities "open-end" import licenses may be granted, allow- ing imports to be effected during a period of six months to one year, subject to an overall limit. De- pending on the importer's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. All imports must be accompanied by an export- er's declaration of shipment. Imports by public en- tities and governmental agencies are subject to prior approval by the Secretariat of Commerce and Indus- trial Promotion. Since July 1, 1988, the import tariff structure has been based on the harmonized prod- uct description and coding system of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Imports from member states of the LAIA and other Latin American countries are subject to preferential tar- iffs. A free zone regime is granted for certain regions until June 30, 1991; this regime allows imports to these zones without duties as long as the goods are not similar to those produced domestically in the same regions. In the controlled market, importers may acquire foreign exchange for the full value of merchandise already imported and for which payment has not yet been made. Importers must register a commit- ment of use (or devolution) of foreign exchange (CUDD) to obtain foreign currency for advance pay- ments; they have a period of 180 days to show evi- dence of use of the foreign exchange for payment of imports and associated expenses or to return the foreign exchange if no adequate substantiation of its use is provided. Full advance payment for all im- ports is allowed if the value of goods does not ex- ceed US$10,000, or if payment is made through letters of credit; in the latter case, there is a 60-day period in which to show evidence of use of for- eign exchange. For an import value exceeding US$10,000, only 20 percent advance payment is per- mitted. Advance payment for associated expenses is permitted up to maximum authorized percent- ages (6 percent f .o .b. value for North American imports, and 8 percent f .o .b. value for other re- gions). Confirmation by suppliers is required for individual transactions exceeding US$10,000. Ex- porters are allowed to retain foreign exchange pro- ceeds up to 100 percent of their requirements for advance payments of imported inputs. These facili- ties are also extended to the imported inputs of their domestic suppliers. Payments for Invisibles Except for the items specified below, payments for invisibles are made through the free exchange market. The payments made through the controlled exchange market consist of: (1) principal and inter- est payments on public and private sector debt with foreign financial entities, foreign suppliers, and Mexican banks; (2) fees related to credits from for- eign financial entities, up to 3/4 of 1 percent of the total amount of each credit; (3) expenses of the Mexi- can foreign service, contributions, and allotments for Mexico's membership in international organiza- tions; (4) expenses related to foreign trade; (5) royalties and obligations deriving from juridical acts in force as of June 1,1984 and recorded with the National Registry of Technological Transfer, with payments to be made through authorized Mexican banks; and (6) expenses on account of scholarships granted by the National Council of Science and Technology (CONACYT) and those approved by CONACYT or the Bank of Mexico for studies in for- eign countries. The contracting of insurance for persons in Mex- ico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are on the account of persons in Mexico, or may occur in Mexico, is permitted only with Mexi- can companies, except when Mexican firms deem it convenient not to execute such transactions, in which case the prior authorization of SHCP is re- quired. The provisions are not applicable to reinsurance. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses. Exportation of a few specified items is prohibited. All merchan- dise export receipts in excess of US$5,000 a week are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO 321 subject to surrender requirements in the controlled market, within a standard period of 90 days. Hand- icraft exports of up to US$8,000 per operation are exempt from the surrender requirement. Special procedures apply for the surrender of export pro- ceeds beyond the standard limit of 90 days. Begin- ning September 5,1986, if a sale of foreign exchange occurs beyond the required period without autho- rization, the applicable exchange rate is only a cer- tain percentage of the rate of the selling day, which varies according to the delay in surrendering the foreign exchange. Exporters of jewelry and precious metals must surrender their proceeds through spe- cifically authorized credit institutions. Exporting enterprises are authorized to open in Mexican banks special accounts denominated in Mexican pesos; but only proceeds from exports can be deposited in such accounts. Interest payable on these deposits is equivalent to the rate of deprecia- tion of the controlled exchange rate against the U.S. dollar, plus the corresponding Eurodollar deposit rates. Mexican banks are also authorized to accept deposits in U.S. dollars by Mexican firms and grant loans in foreign currency for the production, ship- ment, storage, and long-term financing of exports. Such deposits can be constituted only in U.S. dol- lars and do not earn an interest rate higher than LIBOR plus 1 percent. Individual deposit accounts under this scheme must be for a minimum of US$5,000, with the exception of deposits made by enterprises in the free trade zones and border areas. Payments are made abroad in foreign currency. Under the Program for Integral Promotion of Ex- ports (PROFIEX), a drawback system of import duty payments by exporters and their domestic suppliers is in operation. With effect from June 6,1985, the Federal Govern- ment provides a facility called "Certificates of the Right to Import Merchandise for Export" (DiMEx), through which exporters with at least 30 percent value added may import, without permit or license requirement, up to 30 percent of the value of their exports; excluded from the scheme are 297 items of the general import tar iff, representing 3.5 percent of total import items. Exporters are also eligible to purchase imported inputs at the controlled market rate, as are import- ers. In addition, they may use their export proceeds to pay for imports, associated expenses, and re- corded financial and suppliers' debt. Under an understanding on export subsidies and countervailing duties concluded between Mexico and the United States on April 23,1985, Mexico has been granted, until 1991, the benefit of the injury test in countervailing duty investigations, in return for which it has undertaken to phase out export subsidies. Proceeds from Invisibles In-bond industries are required to sell foreign exchange through the controlled market for the equivalent in Mexican pesos of the payment they make for items specified in the Exchange Control Decree, including payment of wages, salaries, leas- ings or rents, the purchase of Mexican goods and services other than fixed assets, local and federal taxes, insurance premiums, interest and other ac- cessory payments pertaining to financing payable in Mexican pesos, as well as any other operational expenditure within Mexico. This regime does not apply to foreign exchange earmarked for payment of credits granted to third parties by foreign finan- cial institutions for the construction of buildings, or industrial p^rks whose use or enjoyment has been granted to such in-bond industries, provided it has been agreed that the amount of the benefits from such use or possession be applied to liquidating the aforementioned credits. In-bond industries must sell their foreign ex- change no later than the last business day of the month in which such expenditures are made. In addition, they must present to the Bank of Mexico, and to SECOFI within the first 15 business days of each month, information as to the dates and amounts of foreign exchange sold to the country's credit institutions during the month immediately preceding, as well as the amounts of Mexican pesos they disbursed to pay each of the specified items. In-bond industries must effect these foreign ex- change transactions through Mexican credit institutions. Capital Foreign investment, including the transfer of funds relating to increment of capital stock as well as payment of dividends, is excluded from the coverage of the controlled foreign exchange market. Accordingly, such activities are effected through the free market and not subject to any restrictions, having only to conform to the norms contained in the applicable laws and regulations. Loan proceeds repayable abroad in foreign currency and obtained from foreign financial institutions or Mexican credit institutions are channeled through the controlled exchange market, except when said proceeds are used for the servicing of specified long-term exter- nal debt or for import payments. The Federal Gov- ernment has ownership and control over certain ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 322 MEXICO strategic areas, such as petroleum, basic petro- chemical production, radioactive minerals, electri- cal and nuclear energy, specified mining activities, railroads, mail and banking services, and other ac- tivities so stated by Mexican law. In addition, for- eign investment is forbidden in the following ac- tivities: insurance and surety bond companies, investment funds, stockbroker firms, money ex- change establishments, radio and television, the public transportation system, and forestry, as well as any other areas specified as such by the Federal Government. New direct foreign investment must have a ma- jority participation of Mexican capital, except those cases approved by the National Foreign Investment Commission (CNIE)2. Direct foreign investments in Mexico must be recorded with the National Foreign Investment Registry. Applications by foreign indi- viduals or enterprises to acquire more than 25 percent of the capital of a Mexican company require the prior authorization of the CNIE. Under resolutions issued by the CNIE in December 1985 to facilitate inflow of foreign investment, no prior CNIE authorization is required for 100 percent for- eign ownership of investment in in-bond industry stocks for stock acquisition by foreign investors, if as a minimum, 51 percent of such stocks were foreign- owned prior to such investment. Gold Goldsmiths or manufacturers may acquire non- monetary gold through authorized Mexican credit Restrictions on participation by foreign capital in new direct foreign investment were liberalized substantially in May 1989. institutions at the controlled exchange rate for the elaboration of products earmarked for export. There is a value-added tax of 15 percent on sales of non- monetary gold. Purchases and sales of monetary gold by Mexican credit institutions are exempt from the tax. Monetary gold exports are exempted from foreign exchange surrender requirements, up to a maximum of 200 grams. Gold may be freely bought or sold in Mexico at the free-market exchange rate. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement March 1. The Government undertook to fix the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar for a period of three months, within the context of the anti-inflation pact. The period of the fixed rate was subsequently ex- tended through the end of the year. Imports and Import Payments April 11. Advance import payments were re- stricted to 20 percent for import values exceeding the equivalent of US$10,000. July 1. A new import tariff system based on the harmonized product description and coding system of the GATT was introduced. Exports and Export Proceeds May 31. The understanding between Mexico and the United States on export subsidies and counter- vailing duties was extended for three years until April 30, 1991. June 20. Export proceeds not exceeding US$5,000 a week were exempted from the controlled market and the surrender requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan Dir- ham. Bank Al-Maghrib fixes buying and selling rates for the French franc daily on the basis of varia- tions in the value of the currencies of Morocco's principal trading partners, weighted in accordance with the geographic distribution of Morocco's for- eign trade and the pattern of currencies of settle- ment. Buying and selling rates for most other cur- rencies quoted in Morocco1 are established on the basis of the daily dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in relation to the French franc in the Paris exchange market. On De- cember 30, 1988, the exchange rate for the French franc was DH 1.35308 buying and DH 1.35714 sell- ing, per F1. On the same date, the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was DH 8.1901 buying and DH 8.2311 selling, per US$1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in Bank Al-Maghrib, but the authorized banks are permitted to offset purchases and sales on behalf of private customers in each currency sepa- rately. Each day, authorized banks must purchase from or sell to Bank Al-Maghrib the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; transactions are effected at rates fixed by Bank Al-Maghrib. Compensation between banks is not permitted, so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. Bank Al-Maghrib also establishes buying and sell- ing rates for transactions with travelers in bank notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit de- nominated in "convertible currencies" (the curren- cies listed in footnote 1, including the French franc but excluding the Mauritanian ouguiya and the Tunisian dinar) and specified other currencies;2 the authorized banks sell to Bank Al-Maghrib their ex- cess holdings of bank notes and replenish them at the Bank when necessary. A forward foreign exchange cover facility was es- tablished by the authorities effective June 1, 1979; the facility is available for exports as well as imports of items benefiting from special customs arrange- ments. Forward contracts for the purchase or sale of Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Mauritanian ouguiya Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, U .A .E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. 2CFA francs and Gibraltar pounds. foreign exchange that have been concluded be- tween banks and their customers result in reverse contracts between the banks and Bank Al-Maghrib. They may be concluded in any foreign currency quoted by Bank Al-Maghrib for maturity periods ranging from a minimum of 1 month to a maximum of 12 months; the guaranteed exchange rate corre- sponds to the spot exchange rate, against the pay- ment of a commission of 2 percent a year, of which a share amounting to 0.25 percent is retained by the authorized banks; provisions are made for extend- ing contract terms, revising contracts in part, or canceling them in whole or in part. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ex- change Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certificates and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and must be countersigned by the Exchange Office. Import com- mitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer himself; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the country of origin of the goods is not the country of shipment, or the goods are bought on a c.i.f. basis. Imports that do not involve payment do not require the visa of the Ex- change Office. A part of the Port of Tangier is desig- nated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxa- tion and from trade, customs, and exchange controls. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the payments agree- ment group, comprising countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agree- ments;3 and (2) all other countries—the "area of convertibility." All settlements with Mauritania and Tunisia are made through accounts denominated in convertible dirhams, or Mauritanian convertible ouguiyas and Tunisian convertible dinars, respectively. Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in convertible currencies nego- tiated by Bank Al-Maghrib. Other settlements with 3Guinea and Mali; however, these agreements are inoperative. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 324 MOROCCO countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in convertible currencies negotiated by Bank Al-Maghrib or through Foreign Accounts in Con- vertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows. 1. Foreign Currency Accounts are held by physical or juridical foreign nationals, either resident or non- resident. These may be freely credited with book transfers from abroad, with foreign bank notes, checks, traveler's checks, or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, and with foreign currency drawn from Bank Al-Maghrib following general or special authorization by the Exchange Office. They may be freely debited for book transfers abroad to the account holder or to a third party foreign national, for the surrender of foreign currency to Bank Al-Maghrib, or for the payment of checks denominated in foreign currency. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are re- served for physical or juridical persons of foreign nationality, who may be resident or nonresident. These accounts may be credited freely with autho- rized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility and with dirhams obtained from the sale to Bank Al-Maghrib of convertible currencies, including bank notes. They may be deb- ited freely for payments in Morocco and for pur- chases from Bank Al-Maghrib of convertible curren- cies. Foreign transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. Holders of these accounts may obtain international credit cards with which to settle their bills in Mo- rocco and abroad. 3. Convertible Dirham Accounts may be opened and maintained by nonresident Moroccans, with an initial deposit of the equivalent of at least DH 500,000 in foreign exchange. Deposits may be either at sight or at term, overdrafts are not allowed, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) dirhams from the sale of convertible currencies, including bank notes, to Bank Al-Maghrib; (2) transfers authorized by the Exchange Office; (3) payments or interest accrued on these accounts; (4) amounts from foreign accounts in convertible dirhams; and (5) amounts from term deposits in convertible dirham accounts. They may be debited freely for (1) the purchase of foreign exchange from Bank Al-Maghrib; (2) dirham payments in Morocco; (3) transfers to foreign accounts in convertible dir- hams; and (4) transfers to term deposits in convert- ible dirham accounts. Provided that appropriate re- ceipts are retained, the accounts may also be de- bited freely, either for the benefit of the account holder or other nonresidents, for the purchase of foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, or other foreign-currency-denominated means of payment. 4. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by Bank Al-Maghrib for central banks (or similar institu- tions) of the countries with which Morocco main- tains bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 3); they are used only for settlements with these countries, including settlements for imports and exports. 5. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any nonresident, are credited with funds that may not be transferred abroad. These include the proceeds from the sale on the Casablanca Stock Exchange of foreign or Moroccan securities without retransfer guarantees and proceeds from the contractual or accelerated redemption of securities quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange that lack retransfer guarantees. Transfers between Capital Accounts re- lated to countries in the area of convertibility or the same country in the payments agreement group are permitted freely. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for purchases of specified government bonds and for personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate relatives during visits to Morocco (subject to a limit of DH 30,000 a Gregorian calendar year for each account, regardless of the number of beneficiaries or of journeys made by them to Mo- rocco. However, at the request of the parties con- cerned, the Exchange Office is prepared to grant higher limits, upon presentation of specific requests giving full details of the nature of the expenditure to be incurred in Morocco). 6. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonresi- dent funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these ac- counts may be used freely to pay taxes due in Mo- rocco, and up to DH 30,000 a year, to pay the costs of the stay in Morocco of the account holder, the spouse, or other immediate relatives; but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 7. Two Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are held by Bank Al-Maghrib for the Central Bank of Tunisia and the Central Bank of Mauritania. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with an an- nual General Import Program, divided into two cat- egories and applicable to all countries. Goods on List A may be imported freely. For a large number of goods on List B, quotas are not established, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 325 imports are approved according to need, licenses usually being issued upon application (SB items). To import goods on List A, the importer signs an im- port commitment (engagement d'importation), which does not require administrative approval unless the goods are imported from a country other than that of origin or are purchased on a c . i .f. basis;4 but for goods on List B, an import certificate (autorisation ^importation or certificat d'importation) must be ob- tained. Cereals, sugar, tea, and fertilizers are im- ported by official agencies. For all imports the import title—import certificate or import commitment —must be domiciled (regis- tered) with an authorized bank, which may make payments upon submission of the required docu- ments. Import certificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the foreign exchange is made available. Import commitments require this visa only when the country of origin and the coun- try of shipment of the goods concerned differ or when imports are contracted for on a c . i . f. basis. Special procedures are applicable to specified im- ports financed by foreign aid or loans. Imports used for the production of export goods can be financed directly from the proceeds of foreign exchange claims of the same exporter within the framework of special lines of credit that Moroccan commercial banks are authorized to contract with their foreign correspondents. At the time the import transaction is domiciled with an authorized bank, a stamp duty of DH 50 is levied on import transactions valued at DH 2,000 or more. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles require the approval of the Exchange Office, but in several in- stances the approval authority has been delegated to the banks. The authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial transaction covered by the relevant import or export documents. Without authorization from the Exchange Office, Moroccan enterprises are permitted to settle in dirhams the expenses in- curred by nonresident foreigners while working for, or on behalf of, the Moroccan enterprise in Mo- rocco. Earnings after tax on approved nonresident investments in Morocco are transferable to the in- vestor's country of residence. The transfer of divi- dends on non-resident-owned shares of Moroccan companies listed on the Casablanca Stock Exchange and having their main office in Morocco is unre- stricted; dividend transfer by unlisted companies 4C.i.f. imports of List A goods require prior exchange control approval. requires the approval of the Exchange Office. Un- distributed profits relating to the financial year 1968 or later remain transferable indefinitely. Some payments are subject to limitations. A for- eign employee may transfer to the employee's coun- try of origin, subject to the initial approval of the Exchange Office, 50 percent of his monthly wages or salary if the spouse does not reside in Morocco, or 30 percent if the employee is single or his family lives in Morocco; teachers attached to the Ministry of National Education are allowed an additional transfer of 35 percent for 30 days' leave taken abroad, 70 percent for 60 days' leave, and 105 per- cent for 70 days' leave. For the medical or paramedi- cal professions, the assessment of transferable amounts (30 percent or 50 percent, according to whether the spouse lives in Morocco) is based on taxable income minus applicable duties and taxes. The same applies to other liberal professions as well as to persons engaged in industry, trade, agricul- ture, and crafts. For retired persons the calculation of the transferable amount (30 percent or 50 per- cent) is based on gross pensions. Moroccan residents as well as residents of foreign nationality who do not periodically transfer funds abroad and who wish to travel abroad are entitled to a foreign exchange allocation equivalent to DH 100 a person a year. There is a special allocation for pil- grimages. Residents of foreign nationality may ac- quire exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 2,500 a year for each passport by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange (other than bank notes) from their own foreign assets not subject to surrender require- ments. Foreign exchange allocation up to the equiv- alent of DH 2,000 a month is granted to foreign nationals residing in Morocco to cover the cost of higher education for a child studying abroad. A special tax of DH 100 a person is levied on Moroccan or foreign residents traveling abroad, with the exception of pilgrims, students, emigrant workers, and those traveling on official business. For business travel a standard allowance equivalent to DH 1,000 a day is granted, up to DH 10,000 a person a trip and within an annual ceiling fixed individually by the Exchange Office; exporters and professional members of the tourist industry may obtain up to the equivalent of DH 1,000 a person a day, up to the equivalent of DH 15,000 a trip, within a ceiling of 3 percent of the foreign exchange repatri- ated during the preceding calendar year. The alloca- tion issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. Moroccan stu- dents pursuing higher studies at the first, second, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 326 MOROCCO or third level abroad and who do not hold scholar- ships may obtain monthly allocations of foreign ex- change up to the maximum equivalent of DH 3,000. Students holding scholarships are eligible for a sup- plementary monthly allocation equivalent to DH 1,500. Students are entitled to an annual in- stallation allowance equivalent to DH 5,000. The export of Moroccan bank notes is prohibited. Visi- tors to Morocco are permitted to repurchase foreign exchange against presentation of the exchange cer- tificate^) for the original conversion of foreign ex- change to dirhams. Workers leaving Morocco to work abroad for the first time or returning to their workplace abroad may be granted DH 5,000 in for- eign bank notes upon presentation of an employ- ment contract. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items. All fruits, fresh vegetables, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported only either directly by the producers or through a state-trading agency, the Office of Mar- keting and Export (Office de Commercialisation et ^Exportation—OCE), which is also in charge of wine exports. All exporters must sign an undertaking to repatri- ate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. The surrender to the exporter's bank must take place within one month of the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the matu- rity date fixed in the commercial contract; in princi- ple, this date must not be set more than 90 days after the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the exporter's bank receives the advice of credit in foreign exchange from abroad, foreign exchange is not automatically surrendered to Bank Al-Maghrib if it represents the proceeds of mobilization of foreign exchange claims arising out of exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accru- ing from all their noncommercial claims and sur- render them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from current transactions. Moroc- cans working abroad must surrender such curren- cies within one month of re-entry, but are permit- ted, when leaving again, to repurchase 15 percent of the amount surrendered, up to a maximum of DH 5,000. The importation of Moroccan bank notes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency. Resident travelers also may bring in for- eign bank notes in any amount, but these must be surrendered within 30 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as com- panies established in Morocco, are obligated to de- clare to the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250 and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The trans- fer of capital abroad by residents must be ap- proved.5 Remittance of the assets of emigrants and transfers in the form of gifts are not normally ap- proved, nor is investment by private individuals in foreign securities or real estate. Exchange alloca- tions for the transfer of inheritances are limited to the equivalent of DH 35,000 a beneficiary. Permis- sible transfers of assets by resident foreigners on final departure are fixed at DH 25,000 for each year of stay, with no upper limit on the amount. In the case of resident foreigners leaving Morocco, Capital Accounts and Suspense Accounts with a balance not exceeding DH 100,000 on June 30, 1986 may be transferred in their entirety, provided that the bank has submitted to the Exchange Office requests for approval accompanied by the necessary informa- tion concerning these accounts before June 30,1987. A new industrial investment code, which came into force in February 1983, provides for full foreign ownership of Moroccan companies in certain sec- tors and an easing of repatriation of capital; it also grants fiscal and other incentives for foreign invest- ment. In addition, an investment code introduced for the tourist sector in August 1983 offers tax and other incentives to domestic and foreign investors in most areas of the tourist sector; it also provides for full repatriation of tourist-related profits after tax, without any restraint on timing. Operations through Capital Accounts that may be effected with approval include: (1) purchases on the Casablanca Stock Exchange of Moroccan and non- Moroccan securities; (2) purchases of Moroccan securities not quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange or participation in a Moroccan firm; (3) subscriptions to (2); (4) investments of any kind, including purchases of businesses or office build- ings; (5) lending to residents; (6) payment of local expenses in excess of DH 30,000 during the account 5Operations involving the conveyance of real property located in Morocco and belonging to foreign persons are not subject to authorization by the Exchange Office. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 327 holder's stay in Morocco; (7) any payments to bene- ficiaries other than the holder of the account or a close relative; (8) any payments from an account held by a foreign juridical person; (9) gifts to social, cultural, or religious institutions; (10) subscriptions to capital increases of Moroccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca Stock Ex- change; (11) subscriptions at the time of issue to long-term or short-term, fixed-yield securities is- sued by a Moroccan public entity; (12) custody charges and commissions on securities; and (13) payment of the cost of maintenance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Subject to approval, Capital Accounts may also be debited for investments in Morocco, within the framework of the 1973 Investment Code, provided that the amounts debited do not exceed 50 percent of the investment undertaken by the nonresident and 25 percent of the company's total capital. The following types of investment are permitted without the prior authorization of the Exchange Of- fice: (1) participation in the equity capital of a com- pany being established; (2) subscription to the capi- tal increase of an existing company; (3) purchase of Moroccan securities; (4) non-interest-bearing con- tributions to partnership current accounts; (5) pur- chase of real property; (6) self-financing of con- struction projects; (7) creation or purchase of a sole proprietorship; and (8) operations to increase capi- tal through the capitalization of reserves, car- ryovers, or reserve provisions that have become available, or the consolidation of partnership cur- rent accounts. Similarly, operations involving the conveyance of investments between foreigners no longer require the authorization of the Exchange Office. In addition, the banks are authorized to transfer to nonresident foreign persons, without limits as to amount or timing, the income generated by their investment in Morocco (dividends, atten- dance fees, profits generated by the Moroccan branches of foreign companies, rental income pay- able to foreign nonresident recipients, and interest generated by loans authorized by the Exchange Of- fice). Similar transactions are permitted by Moroc- cans living abroad, provided that the investments are made in foreign exchange or by debiting con- vertible dirham accounts. The repatriation of capital for the above investments can be guaranteed. Certain government bonds acquired with funds from Capital Accounts are freely negotiable be- tween nonresidents. These are 7.5 percent, five- year bonds on which interest and redemption pro- ceeds are transferable. The import and export of securities require approval. Banks are permitted to engage in short-term borrowing abroad; they may accept convertible currency funds from nonresi- dents for credit to Special Deposit Accounts, provided that these funds are reinvested abroad in the same currency and for the same maturity period. The rate of interest paid by banks on these deposits may not exceed the rate received by them on their corresponding placements. Gold Commemorative gold coins with a face value of DH 250 and DH 500 have been issued and are legal tender. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment pur- poses. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization by the Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes. Each year, the Ministry of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots, which is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. Exports of gold are prohibited. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement February 1. The Mauritanian ouguiya was added to the list of currencies for which Bank Al-Maghrib quotes buying and selling rates. August 2. Authorized banks were given the right to repurchase under certain circumstances foreign exchange sold by them to Bank Al-Maghrib. Administration of Control May 4. Imports without payment were exempted from the requirement of a visa from the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency February 1. Regulations requiring all settlements with Mauritania to be made through accounts de- nominated in convertible dirhams or Mauritanian convertible ouguiya became effective. Nonresident Accounts March 21. The requirement that a customs dec- laration justifying the importation of foreign bank notes had to be presented in order to credit foreign accounts in convertible dirhams with the proceeds from the surrender of foreign bank notes was abolished. May 2. Nonresident Moroccans are entitled to open and maintain convertible dirham accounts in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 328 MOROCCO Morocco, with an initial deposit of the equivalent of at least DH 500,000 in foreign exchange. Deposits may be either at sight or at term, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. Overdrafts are not allowed on the accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) dirhams from the sale of convertible currencies, including bank notes, to Bank Al-Maghrib; (2) transfers authorized by the Exchange Office; (3) interest payments; (4) amounts from foreign accounts in convertible dirhams; and (5) amounts from term deposits in convertible dir- ham accounts. They may be debited freely for (1) the purchase of foreign exchange from Bank Al-Maghrib; (2) dirham payments in Morocco; (3) transfers to foreign accounts in convertible dir- hams; and (4) transfers to term deposits in convert- ible dirham accounts. Provided that appropriate re- ceipts are retained, the account may also be freely debited, either for the benefit of the account holder or other nonresidents, for the purchase of foreign bank notes, traveler's checks, or other foreign- currency-denominated means of payment. Imports and Import Payments February 29. The period within which payments for imports have to be effected was lengthened from 12 to 24 months. October 31. Under the 1988 general import pro- grams some 130 items on List B were transferred to List A. Payments for Invisibles January 26. New regulations liberalizing the pur- chase of, and reimbursement for, tickets for foreign travel were issued. February 17. Regulations permitting Moroccan en- terprises to settle in dirhams the expenses incurred by nonresident foreigners while working for, or on behalf of, the Moroccan enterprise in Morocco went into effect. March 8. For visitors to Morocco, (1) the re-export of all means of payment denominated in foreign exchange became exempt from a customs declara- tion; and (2) regulations permitting the repurchase of foreign exchange against presentation of the ex- change certificate(s) for the original conversion of foreign exchange to dirhams went into effect. June 9. The regulations relating to maritime trans- port were modified and simplified by reducing the number of documents that have to be lodged with the Exchange Office. Exports and Export Proceeds March 23. Exporters were notified that delays in export settlements were no longer subjectt to the prior approval of the Exchange Office, provided that the repatriation of export earnings did not take longer than 120 days from the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. March 28. Authorized banks were informed that the permission of the Exchange Office was no longer required for the transfer of export commissions, provided that the commission did not exceed 5 per- cent and that the export receipts had been repatri- ated and surrendered to Bank Al-Maghrib. July 27. The maximum rate of export commission not subject to the prior approval of the Exchange Office was raised from 5 percent to 10 percent; au- thorized banks were granted permission to transfer export commissions up to the maximum rate of 10 percent without the approval of the Exchange Office. Proceeds from Invisibles January 28. The requirement for Moroccan cit- izens to declare and state the source of foreign ex- change at customs was abolished. March 8. The requirement for nonresident trav- elers to declare the amount and type of foreign exchange being brought into Morocco by them was abolished. March 10. Exporters were notified that their im- portation of foreign bank notes was no longer sub- ject to declaration at customs. Capital March 1. The following types of foreign invest- ment became permissible without the prior autho- rization of the Exchange Office: (1) participation in the equity capital of a company being established; (2) subscription to the capital increase of an existing company; (3) purchase of Moroccan securities; (4) non-interest-bearing contributions to part- nership current accounts; (5) purchase of real prop- erty; (6) self-financing of construction projects; (7) creation or purchase of a sole proprietorship; and (8) operations to increase capital through the cap- italization of reserves, carryovers, reserve provi- sions that have become available, or the consolida- tion of partnership current accounts. Similarly, operations involving the conveyance of investments between foreigners no longer require the authoriza- tion of the Exchange Office. In addition, the banks were authorized to transfer to nonresident foreign persons, without limits as to amount or timing, the income generated by their investments in Morocco. March 14. Operations involving the conveyance of real property in Morocco and belonging to foreign persons are no longer subject to authorization by the Exchange Office. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 329 June 13. Moroccans living abroad were accorded investment rights in Morocco similar to those granted to foreigners (see March 1, 1988, entry above), provided that the investments were made in foreign exchange or by debiting convertible dirham accounts. June 13. Foreigners, either persons or legal en- tities, were permitted to subscribe to two Treasury bond issues of June 1988; the repatriation of capital and income from the investments was guaranteed. The purchase of bonds had to be effected by foreign exchange or by debiting foreign accounts in con- vertible dirhams. Moroccans living abroad were granted the same rights, with their purchases to be effected either in foreign currency or by debiting convertible dirham accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mozambique is the Metical (plu- ral Meticais). Effective January 31,1987, the peg to a basket of six currencies was suspended and the metical was pegged to the U.S. dollar. At the same time, the exchange rate was adjusted from Mt. 38.279 = US$1 (buying) and Mt. 39.069 = US$1 (selling) to Mt. 200 = US$1 (buying) and Mt. 204 = US$1 (selling). With effect from October 15, 1988, the exchange rates of the metical were adjusted to Mt. 620.00 = US$1 (buying) and Mt. 632.50 = US$1 (selling).1 Exchange rates for 20 other currencies are published daily by the Bank of Mozambique.2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The National Planning Commission prepares an- nually, in consultation with central and provincial government agencies, a foreign exchange budget for the following year, as part of the Central State Plan. Imports and exports are authorized by means of licenses, within limits and on the basis of pri- orities established in the foreign exchange budget. Foreign exchange transactions, including the sur- render of foreign exchange proceeds, are effected through the Bank of Mozambique, which is both the central bank and the only bank with external bank- ing functions. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Mozambique has bilateral payments agreements with Tanzania and the German Democratic Re- public. Bilateral payments arrangements are main- tained with Malawi, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe. With effect from January 1, 1989, the exchange rates of the metical were adjusted to Mt. 645.00 = US$1 (buying) and Mt. 657.90 = US$1 (selling). 2Austrian schilling, Belgian franc, Canadian dollar, Danish krone, deutsche mark, Finnish markka, French franc, Italian lira, Japanese yen, Malawi kwacha, Netherlands guilder, Norwegian krone, Portuguese escudo, pound sterling, South African rand, Spanish peseta, Swedish krona, Swiss franc, Zambian kwacha, and Zimbabwe dollar. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents in Mozambique may hold foreign exchange accounts in the Bank of Mozambique. There is no restriction on the use of these accounts. Nonresidents in Mozambique under work contracts and having income in national currency that is earned from providing services under work con- tracts may hold national currency accounts in any bank operating in the country. There is no restric- tion on the use of these accounts. Persons or busi- nesses residing abroad may open nonresident bank accounts for specific purposes based on legitimate interests they retain in Mozambique; credits and debits to these accounts must comply with the reg- ulations established by the competent authorities. Ex-residents (nationals and foreigners who no longer enjoy residency status) may hold bank ac- counts in Mozambique, but their use is subject to prior authorization, in accordance with Ministry of Finance regulations; drawings may be made by the holders of such accounts for payment of taxes, a certain type of debt, maintenance of spouses or relatives, expenses while visiting the country, and other payments within the country. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, within limits established in the Central State Plan. The license specifies, among other things, the place of embar- kation or disembarkation of the goods and the amount and currency of payment. Enterprises may obtain import licenses from the Ministry of Com- merce, which considers applications on a case-by- case basis. Imports of raw materials, spare parts, petroleum, food, and medicines are given priority. Individuals may import goods up to US$500 for personal use without an exchange license if expen- ditures from Mozambique's foreign exchange fund are not involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are processed by the Bank of Mozambique upon presentation of the authoriza- tion granted by the Ministry of Finance. Allowances for travel are made available to individuals only in certain cases, mainly for medical treatment pur- poses. Each ministry receives an allocation to be 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOZAMBIQUE 331 used for business travel and educational travel ex- penses. Foreign experts working in Mozambique may remit abroad the entire amount of their sal- aries. Nonresidents may export foreign bank notes up to the amount declared on entry. Exports and reimports of domestic currency are limited to Mt. 500 a person leaving the country temporarily for the purpose of meeting incidental expenses on re- turn. Citizens leaving the country on business and private travel are entitled to purchase foreign cur- rency at the border up to the equivalent of US$12.50 once a year. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing, and all export proceeds must be collected through the Bank of Mozambique. Export licenses are granted if applica- ble legal requirements are fulfilled. Exporters of traditional products (cashews, cotton, copra, tea, sugar, and citrus) are allowed to retain a percentage of foreign exchange proceeds for purchases of im- ported inputs; their average retention rate is about 50 percent. Exporters of nontraditional products have also become eligible to participate in the system. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the Bank of Mozambique. The Direct Foreign Investment Law, published in April 1984, aims to encourage the participation of foreign capital both in the formation of new enter- prises with exclusively foreign capital and in asso- ciation with other Mozambican enterprises. For this purpose, the Foreign Investment Promotion Office was established in 1984. The Direct Foreign Invest- ment Law specifies guarantees to investors as well as the right to transfer invested capital and a portion of profits abroad. The incentives for foreign invest- ments include tax and customs exemptions for spec- ified periods of time and access to domestic credit. Gold There are no legal limitations on gold acquisitions. Imports of gold jewelry or other precious metals are governed by special regulations. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The exchange rate of the metical was adjusted to Mt. 450 = US$1 (buying) and Mt. 459 = US$1 (selling). July 1. The exchange rate of the metical was ad- justed to Mt. 580.00 = US$1 (buying) and Mt. 591.60 = US$1 (selling). October 1. The exchange rate of the metical was adjusted to Mt. 620.00 = US$1 (buying) and Mt. 632.50 = US$1 (selling). Capital The Government, the Bank of Mozambique, and enterprises are authorized to borrow abroad. All foreign borrowing is channeled through the Bank of Mozambique, which registers such loans, guaran- tees them upon request, and monitors foreign debt. Export and Export Proceeds January 1. The range of retention rates for ex- porters of traditional products was reduced from 30-100 percent to 30-70 percent, resulting in a de- crease in the average rate from about 70 percent to about 50 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese Rupee, the exchange rate of which fluctuates on the basis of a currency basket. On December 30,1988, the official buying and selling rates were NRs 25.10 and NRs 25.30, respectively, per US$1. Buying and sell- ing rates are quoted daily for certain other curren- cies,1 with quotations based on the buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Only buying rates are quoted for Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Italian lire, Danish kroner, Swedish kroner, Hong Kong dollars, and Saudi Arabian riyals, based on buying rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Residents may freely purchase In- dian rupees from Nepalese banks, and they may hold any amount of Indian notes and coin. The Nepal Rastra Bank guarantees free and unlimited convertibility between Indian and Nepalese rupees; however, Indian rupees are not legal tender in Ne- pal. Forward exchange cover is available only in U.S. dollars for export transactions. Administration of Control Permission is required from the Ministry of Fi- nance for all payments in convertible currencies ex- cept for import payments and certain other spec- ified payments. The licensing of imports from countries other than India is administered by the Department of Commerce. Each government minis- try receives an allocation under the foreign ex- change budget. The licensing of exports of most goods to countries other than India is also the re- sponsibility of the Ministry of Commerce. All ex- change transactions with countries other than India must be settled through authorized dealers (the Nepal Bank Ltd., Nepal Arab Bank, Nepal Grind- lay's Bank, Indo Suez Bank, and the Rastriya Ban- ijya Bank). Nonbank authorized dealers are licensed to purchase foreign currencies; any sale of such currencies other than Indian rupees is subject to the prior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB). Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing payments to countries with which no payments agreement is in force,2 and these may be made in foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank. All current transactions with member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) other than India (Bangladesh, Burma, the Islamic Re- public of Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) must be effected through the ACU. Payments for imports from India are settled in Indian rupees. The pro- ceeds of exports to India are obtained in Indian rupees, while proceeds from other countries must be received in any of the quoted convertible curren- cies for which the Nepal Rastra Bank quotes buying and selling rates. Foreign Currency Accounts Commercial banks may accept deposits denomi- nated in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling and deter- mine the rate of interest on such deposits. Eligibility for the opening of such accounts is limited to (1) Nepalese citizens earning convertible foreign currency from employment in international organi- zations, agencies, or embassies; (2) Nepalese cit- izens earning foreign currency by working abroad (except in India and Bhutan) for more than six months; (3) international organizations and foreign nationals; and (4) Indian and Bhutanese citizens residing in countries other than Nepal, India, or Bhutan. Current and time deposit accounts can be opened, the latter for periods of three months, six months, nine months, or one year. Current ac- counts may be opened with a minimum of US$1,000 (or the equivalent), and time deposits with a mini- mum of US$5,000 (or the equivalent). Nonresidents can withdraw their deposits at any time, and these can be converted into any convertible currency at the commercial banks. In the case of Nepalese cit- izens returning from overseas, foreign currency ac- counts have to be surrendered for local currency within one year of return to Nepal. Before that time limit expires, 70 percent of the local currency value of the deposit can be exchanged for import licenses in the same value and the remainder can be ex- changed for local currency. 1 Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupees, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and Singapore dollars. 2Nepal maintains bilateral payments agreements with Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and the U.S.S.R.; payments for transactions under the agreement with Poland are settled through a special account in pounds sterling. 332 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 333 Nonresident Accounts The Nepal Rastra Bank permits nonresidents to open "convertible rupee accounts" with Nepalese banks; balances on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Accounts in Indian currency may be opened only under special arrangements. Foreign currencies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepalese rupees and deposited with a Nepalese bank, can be reconverted for transfer out of the country, subject to prior permission of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Imports and Import Payments Import arrangements vary, depending on the source, user/importer, and commodity in question. Imports from India generally do not require import licenses, while all imports of goods from countries other than India, except imports under baggage rules, require import licenses and are subject to quantitative import restrictions. The licensing of im- ports from third countries is administered by various ministries, which receive a foreign ex- change allocation under the annual foreign ex- change budget. For licensing purposes, imports are classified by end user and fall into the following five broad categories: industries; government offices; corporations, organizations, and missions; commer- cial; and personal. The Ministry of Commerce ad- ministers the issuance of licenses. In the case of industrial imports, approval is required from the Ministry of Industry before licenses are issued, with exceptions for certain items. Goods may be im- ported under several categories depending on the end user, in which case different license premia apply. Imports of certain items, such as cigarettes and matches, goods considered harmful for health, arms, ammunition and explosives, wireless trans- mitters, precious metals, and jewelry (except under baggage rule), require special permission of the Government. Imports of several items, including beef, washing soap (except from India), and de- tergent powder, are banned. Under the Trade and Transit Treaties, Nepal and India have agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Indian goods; Indian goods may, in principle, be imported freely (although some are subject to a permit system in order to prevent their re- exportation, and certain others are subject to export ceilings in India). Reimbursement of the excise duty on products that are directly imported from Indian manufacturers and subject to the excise duty in India is made by the Government of India to the Government of Nepal. Imports of industrial raw materials are almost entirely processed through the passbook system which is administered by the Ministry of Industry. Under the passbook system, industrialists are given an annual entitlement for specified inputs imported from countries other than India based on the pre- vious year's production level and the current year's production program, with the possibility of renewal and adjustment in case of changes in production levels. The entitlement and actual utilization are recorded in the passbook. Approval for a license is readily granted up to the annual entitlement, after the use of the previous imports has been verified. After this, the Ministry of Commerce automatically issues the import licenses, and foreign exchange approval is normally granted by the NRB. More liberal conditions apply to about 40 types of raw materials and intermediate inputs that are im- ported under Open General License (OGL). In the case of raw wool, trading companies and actual users are automatically given import licenses with- out limit, review of past use, or a passbook. In the case of other OGL items, a passbook is required but such items are subject to less frequent reviews of past use than under the basic passbook system. In the case of iron billets, a review is undertaken an- nually while in other cases, the review is under- taken when imports under the next of three tranches are required. Imports of metal for handicraft industries (except silver) are carried out through special importing companies for cottage industries and they receive a special allocation of foreign exchange. As silver handicrafts are being promoted, silver is imported by the NRB and sold to cottage industries through the commercial banks at cost. Import licenses are also auctioned for specified goods. The total value of import licenses to be auc- tioned depends on the available amount of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange is automatically provided to successful bidders at the official ex- change rate. A fee of 1 percent of the value of the license is imposed for all imports, including import licenses that are auctioned, with the exception of personal imports for which the license fee varies according to the goods to be imported and source of finance. Margin deposits are required on letters of credit as follows: (1) 10 percent for industrial raw materials, machinery, and spare parts, if imported by regis- tered industries or allied trading enterprises; (2) 30 percent for development and construction materials (such as cement, iron and iron rods, and corrugated sheets), dairy products, writing papers, newsprint, agricultural goods, medical equipment, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 334 NEPAL and educational and scientific materials; and (3) 50 percent for all other imports. Nepalese citizens returning from abroad who have spent at least seven nights out of the country are allowed to bring in goods worth NRs 1,000, free of customs duties and sales taxes. In addition, they can import, without license but subject to customs duties and taxes, special goods worth up to NRs 15,000 twice a year. For those who have official sources of foreign exchange earnings and have stayed abroad for more than one month, additional imports are allowed. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Indian rupees. For travel to countries other than India for medi- cal treatment, exchange allowance is granted as rec- ommended by a panel of doctors. Students study- ing at their own expense in these countries are granted exchange allowance covering expenses for boarding, lodging, and tuition fees on the recom- mendation of the Ministry of Education. Foreign exchange is made available for certain business trips, but is restricted for tourist travel abroad. Pay- ments for other invisibles depend on the essen- tiality of the transaction and availability of foreign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currencies may be taken out freely to India only by Nepalese and In- dian nationals; the export of these currencies to countries other than India is prohibited. Foreign bank notes, other than Indian bank notes, may not be taken out by residents without permission. Non- residents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign bank notes they brought in; however, nonresidents, other than Indian nationals, may not take out Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of items having archaeological and re- ligious importance, and certain other exports, in- cluding old coins, narcotics, and explosive mate- rials, are prohibited. The re-export to India of non- Nepalese goods and the re-export to any destination of goods imported from India are prohibited. Finished products with no less than 80 percent Nepalese or Indian content are allowed preferential entry into India. This treatment is automatically accorded to 24 items, while an additional 34 items may receive such treatment upon the submission of production details to the Indian authorities on a pro forma basis. In April 1987, the system of export licensing to third countries was changed from a positive list to a negative list. Licenses are now required only for the export of ready-made gar- ments, rice, maize, wheat, pulses, oilseeds, and industrial raw materials. During 1988 the export of rice was banned. Exports of ready-made garments to the United States are limited by a bilateral agreement, which allows for growth in volume of 6 percent a year. The Nepalese Government maintains a floor price for garment exports in order to facilitate the enforce- ment of exchange controls. The Industrial Enterprises Act of 1987 provided for refunds of import duties paid by exporters and for bonded warehouses. However, the introduction of these facilities is still at an early stage. A duty relief scheme has been set up only for the ready- made garments industry and this operates in con- junction with the bonded warehouse scheme. When exporters purchase imports from the bonded warehouses, the duty payable is lodged in an es- crow bank account and is released when the gar- ments made from these imports are exported and the required documentation is provided to verify the use of the imports. The exchange proceeds from exports, except in Indian rupees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or to an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Unit values are defined on an f.o.b. basis. Exports of jute, jute goods, turmeric, catechu, oil cake, foodgrains, pulses, processed and semiprocessed leather, woolen carpet, and ready- made garments to countries other than India in excess of US$1,000 in value are allowed only against irrevocable letters of credit. Foreign tourists leaving Nepal may take out as souvenirs, without permission, Nepalese goods whose value does not exceed the value of foreign currency exchanged in Nepal. Commercial banks may grant pre-export credit of up to 70 percent of the f .o .b. value of products specified by the Government to all individuals and institutions holding irrevocable letters of credit opened or endorsed by foreign banks acceptable to the Nepalese banks. Such credit may be provided for a maximum period of three months; this period may be extended without penalties under special circumstances outside the control of the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Indian rupees, foreign ex- change proceeds derived from transactions in invis- ibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official rate of ex- change. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in only from India, and only by Nepalese and Indian nationals; the import of these currencies ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL 335 from countries other than India is prohibited. When extending their visas, tourists are required to pro- duce evidence that they have converted a minimum of US$5 at the official rate of exchange for each day's stay. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Other foreign bank notes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents, but they must be declared. Capital No conditions are specified concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital remittances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are pro- hibited from making any type of investment in for- eign countries, except investment specifically ex- empted by government notice; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any banking or fi- nancial institution incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. Foreign investors who have obtained an invest- ment guarantee are eligible for outward remittances in respect of the following items: all or part of the sales proceeds of investment, dividends, interest, or principal repayment; amounts arising from the transfer of technology; and compensations on ac- quired assets. The Industrial Enterprises Act of 1987 contains provisions regarding local equity require- ments for foreign investment in enterprises. For- eign investment is not permitted in cottage, small- scale, or defense-related industries. Foreign in- vestors can hold 100 percent equity in large-scale industries and up to 50 percent in medium-scale industries. Small-scale industries are defined as those with fixed assets valued at up to NRs 3 million; for medium-scale industries, the asset value limit is up to NRs 10 million, and those with fixed assets in excess of NRs 10 million are considered large-scale industries. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports of gold are banned, except under baggage rules. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments November 15. The Open General License (OGL) system was extended by including additional raw materials and intermediate inputs. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The bonded warehouse facility and duty draw-back system for the garment industry was extended to cover imports of raw materials from India, in addition to the existing arrangements for imports from third countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands is the Nether- lands Guilder. The Netherlands participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, and Luxembourg in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, the Netherlands maintains the spot exchange rates between the Netherlands guilder and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Netherlands Bank stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1988, these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Netherlands Guilders Upper limit Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 5.5870 100 Danish kroner 30.2100 100 deutsche mark 115.2350 100 French francs 34.3600 1 Irish pound 3.0870 10,000 Italian lire 16.600 5.3415 28.8825 110.1675 32.8475 2.9510 14.725 The participants in the EMS do not maintain ex- change rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the intervention cur- rencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. The authorized banks quote buying and selling rates for 15 foreign currencies and the ECU.l On De- cember 30, 1988, the authorized banks' buying and selling rates were f. 1.99825 and f. 2.00075, respec- tively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward; they are free to deal with resi- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. dents and nonresidents, whether banks or non- banks. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, nor is an underlying trade transaction required. Nonbank residents are free to hold foreign currency accounts in the Netherlands. The Kingdom of the Netherlands formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Transactions with the Netherlands Antilles are subject to the same exchange controls as transac- tions with other countries. With regard to any third countries with which payments agreements might be in force, the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles will, if so stipulated, constitute the Nether- lands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Nether- lands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Finance, Economic Affairs, and Agricul- ture. Import and export licensing, including transit trade,2 is handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. For their payments to and re- ceipts from nonresidents in the Netherlands, resi- dents are generally required to use the intermedia- tion of banks or other domestic institutions or persons authorized by the Netherlands Bank to handle these exchange transactions within the scope of the regulations based on the External Fi- nancial Relations Act of 1980 (see section on Capital, below). To facilitate the compilation of the balance of payments, residents are required to indicate on re- porting forms, for all payments to and receipts from nonresidents exceeding f. 5,000, the nature of the underlying transaction as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Separate regulations govern the reporting of settlements where no trans- fer of money is involved. Residents are free to open and maintain bank accounts abroad and to maintain current accounts abroad for the purpose of settlements. The Nether- lands Bank must be notified of such accounts, and 2The only transit trade transactions still subject to specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods. 336 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 337 entries in them are to be reported to the Bank in accordance with the related regulations. Prescription of Currency In effecting payments to nonresidents or collect- ing receipts from them, residents may make use of guilders or any foreign currency. Payments in any foreign currency between residents may be made freely. There are no bilateral payments agreements in force. Nonresidents are free to open and maintain nonresident accounts with authorized banks in the Netherlands in guilders or in any foreign currency, and to effect payments to, or collect receipts from, residents. All payments or receipts are freely per- mitted, as well as transfers of balances to and from other nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for imports originat- ing in Hong Kong, Japan, and state-trading coun- tries,3 as well as for the importation of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly those of the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors. Except for imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in state-trading countries (see footnote 3), most imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restriction. Most imports from Eastern European countries are formally liberalized. Imports from non-European Communities (EC) countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) of the EC are subject to import levies that have replaced all previous bar- riers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Payments for imports may be made freely, pro- vided that the method of payment conforms to the relevant exchange control regulations. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Residents may take out any amount in for- eign and domestic bank notes and coin or docu- ments of value for travel purposes; these may be used for traveling expenses abroad, as well as for 3State-trading countries are defined for this purpose as consis- ting of Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czech- oslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Dem- ocratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Payments for interest, divi- dends, and contractual amortization due to nonresi- dents are permitted freely. Nonresidents may export all unutilized docu- ments of value for travel purposes, as well as foreign and Netherlands bank notes and coin that they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or by exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few com- modities, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agricultural products, iron and steel scrap and related products, and certain nonferrous metals. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts by residents from current invisibles. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands for travel purposes any amount of foreign bank notes and documents of value; these may be used for traveling expenses in the Netherlands, as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Capital Exchange control in the Netherlands is based on the External Financial Relations Act of 1980. This Act limits potential restriction to capital transac- tions, except when current payments and capital transactions are interwoven, as in payment intervals relating to trade transactions. External capital transactions are unrestricted. Di- rect investment in the form of capital participations (inward and outward) is free of license. Short-term lending (for less than two years) to nonresidents (whether affiliated companies or others) is also free of license, as is longer-term lending. Public issues on the domestic capital market (with maturity of at least two years) on behalf of both residents as well as nonresidents are subject to a flexibly applied issue calendar. Notification to the Netherlands Bank at least one working day before the announcement of an issue in the market is required only for issues of f. 50 million or over. The Netherlands Bank's ap- proval is not required for the timing of an issue. For all issues of guilder-denominated bearer paper, management requirements are in force. Lead man- agers must be registered credit institutions and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 338 NETHERLANDS must have a full-fledged securities/issuing depart- ment in the Netherlands. In addition, reciprority requirements apply. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange take place at official market ex- change rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Placement with residents of unlisted foreign deben- tures denominated in guilders (such as foreign Eu- roguilder notes) and transactions in unlisted stocks are free of license. Nonresidents may have their securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment, and residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Extension of payment and mortgage bor- rowing from nonresidents within the framework of such transactions are free of license. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free. Emi- grants may export any amount in foreign and do- mestic currency. They acquire nonresident status upon leaving the Netherlands and may upon depar- ture have remitted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Nonresidents inheriting from estates in the Netherlands may have the proceeds trans- ferred to them freely. There are no restrictions on commercial banks' spot external positions. Banks must pursue a policy to ensure that they avoid open positions in foreign currency and precious metals in excess of normal banking limits. In this context, the banks are re- quired to report their position in each foreign cur- rency and precious metal (spot, forward, and option positions) at the end of each month; for deutsche mark, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dol- lars, the same data must also be reported at mid- month. Authorized banks may freely extend foreign currency and guilder loans to nonresidents. The banks' freedom to accept deposits from nonresi- dents and to borrow abroad is unrestricted. All capital transfers by nonbank residents must be reported to the Balance of Payments Department of the Netherlands Bank. These include suppliers' credits granted or received for periods in excess of one year. Totals of security transactions must be reported periodically by securities brokers and au- thorized banks or, if transactions take place through a foreign bank account, by the resident parties concerned. Gold Neither the Netherlands Bank nor any govern- ment agency imports or markets gold for industrial use. Authorized banks and nonbank residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coin, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad. Imports and exports of gold do not require exchange licenses or import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Except for transac- tions of the Netherlands Bank, transfers of gold in bars and other elementary forms are subject to a value-added tax of 6 percent, as are domestic sales of gold coin. All other gold transactions are taxed at 20 percent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when they originate in Hong Kong, Japan, or state-trading countries (see footnote 3). Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. (See Appendix for a summary of antidumping duties, countervailing charges, and import sur- veillance measures introduced or eliminated by the European Economic Community during 1988, page 561.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES1 (Position on December 32, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Netherlands Antillean Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at NA f. 1.7900 = US$1. The official buying rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1988 were NA f. 1.77 per US$1 for bank notes and NA f. 1.78 per US$1 for drafts, checks, and transfers. The of- ficial selling rate was NA f. 1.80 per US$1. The Bank of Netherlands Antilles (the central bank) deals with commercial banks within margins of 0.00279 percent on either side of the official buy- ing and selling rates; on December 31, 1988, the buying and selling rates were NA f. 1.7905 and NA f. 1.7895, respectively, per US$1. Official buying and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar abroad. A foreign exchange tax of 1.3 percent is levied on payments made by residents to nonresidents.3 Pur- chases of foreign exchange by resident companies with nonresident status for exchange control pur- poses are exempt from the exchange tax. There are no arrangements for forward cover against ex- change rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the central bank. Import licenses, where required, are issued by the Department of Commerce, Indus- try, and Employment. The commercial banks are permitted by the central bank to provide foreign exchange for almost all current transactions without prior approval. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except the legal tender of the Netherlands Antilles. Re- irThe Netherlands Antilles is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. On January 1,1986, the island of Aruba, which was formerly a part of the Netherlands Antilles, became a separate nonmetropolitan territory within the King- dom of the Netherlands. 2Aruban florins, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Sur- iname guilders, and Swiss francs. All currencies other than the Netherlands Antillean guilder are considered foreign currencies. 3Purchases of foreign exchange by resident companies with nonresident status for exchange control purposes are exempt from the exchange tax. ceipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except the legal tender of the Netherlands Antilles. All payments made by residents to nonresidents and receipts through authorized banks as well as through banks abroad must be reported to the cen- tral bank for the compilation of the balance of payments. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonresident ac- counts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents are permitted to hold nonresident accounts with autho- rized banks (positive balances) in Netherlands An- tillean guilders. Balances in such accounts may not exceed NA f. 200,000 without central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. Im- ports whose delivery and payment dates are more than 12 months apart must be reported to the cen- tral bank. The importation of certain products for which there are locally produced substitutes is sub- ject to quotas. Certain commodities are subject to import surcharges in Bonaire and Curasao. Payments for Invisibles All types of current invisible payments and remit- tances may be made freely. A license is required if the delivery and payment dates are more than one year apart; the central bank must receive notification. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency which they brought in. The export of Netherlands Antillean bank notes is pro- hibited, except for traveling purposes. Transfers of profits and dividends are allowed by the central bank upon application. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. Residents are not required to surrender invisible proceeds. If export proceeds are not received within 12 months of ship- ment, the delay must be reported to the central bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are not required to surrender invisible proceeds. Travelers may bring in with them any 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 340 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES amount of checks, traveler's checks, or bank notes denominated in foreign currency. Capital Foreign investments and transfer of loans to resi- dents in the Netherlands Antilles require licenses, which are normally granted. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are sub- ject to control. Investments by residents in real es- tate abroad as well as capital loans to nonresidents require a license. Investment and disinvestment by nonresidents in real estate in the Netherlands An- tilles do not require a license. Investment by resi- dents in officially listed foreign securities is permit- ted free of license up to NA f. 100,000 annually. Reinvestment of proceeds from the sale of securities is also allowed. Residents are allowed to hold foreign bank ac- counts without a special license. Transfers from a local bank account to these foreign accounts are allowed up to NA f. 5,000 a transaction. Authorized banks' overall position with nonresi- dents is subjected to limits set by the central bank, and must always be positive and in currencies listed in Article XXX of the Fund's Articles of Agreement and/or in Netherlands guilders. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles. Authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Imports and exports of gold do not require a special license. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments January I. Import quotas on 43 locally produced items were reduced to 50 percent of the c.i.f. value of 1987 imports. Capital April 1. The maximum allowed net foreign assets position of commercial banks was reduced by 2.5 percentage points to 7.5 percent of domestic debt. May 1. The maximum allowed net foreign assets position of commercial banks was reduced further by 2.5 percentage points to 5 percent of domestic debt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand Dollar. The New Zealand authorities do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions; spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market, although the Reserve Bank of New Zealand retains discretionary power to inter- vene in the foreign exchange market. On Decem- ber 30,1988, the closing buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$0.6288 and US$0.6283, re- spectively, per $NZ 1. The trading banks and autho- rized foreign exchange dealers are free to adjust exchange rate quotations in response to market con- ditions throughout each business day. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers are permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts to buy or sell foreign currencies in exchange for New Zealand dollars, irrespective of the purpose for which the funds are required or the source from which they are obtained, and they are free to set their own rates of forward transactions with their customers. Forward contracts may be either for a fixed term or for optional delivery dates. The Re- serve Bank does not maintain margins in respect of forward exchange transactions. On August 5, 1982, New Zealand formally ac- cepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Following the relaxation of exchange control reg- ulations in December 1984, receipts and remittances of foreign exchange are free from controls. The Re- serve Bank of New Zealand continues to administer the remaining exchange control provisions, which are as follows: (1) exchange dealers must be autho- rized by the Reserve Bank; (2) except for transac- tions involving foreign currency bank notes, coin, and traveler's checks, which may be undertaken by any party, foreign exchange transactions must be handled by an authorized foreign exchange dealer; (3) for statistical purposes, except for small amounts, details of receipts and remittances are still required for receipts of foreign exchange from over- seas and for remittances of external payments; and (4) information required for the purposes of pruden- tial supervision of foreign exchange dealers and the foreign exchange market must be provided to the Reserve Bank. The Overseas Investment Commission adminis- ters the regulations governing foreign direct invest- ment in New Zealand; licensing of imports and prohibited exports is the responsibility of the Customs Department and the Ministry of Com- merce, respectively. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may be made or received in any foreign currency.1 Payment to and from New Zealand currency accounts held with banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand is also an acceptable form of payment. Nonresident Accounts Overseas banks' accounts in New Zealand may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries. Imports and Import Payments Effective July 1, 1988, import licensing was abol- ished for all imports, except for those covered by industry plans; previously, these licenses were gen- erally issued through a tendering system. Customs tariff rates falling outside the industry plans have also been reduced in the past few years. Average tariff rates for these industries are expected to be reduced by a further one third by the end of 1992 under the program announced in December 1987. The industry plans cover selected industries that were recognized to face high adjustment costs when assistance was reduced.2 The plans provide specific programs for a gradual reduction of tariffs and, in many cases, the removal of import licensing, 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. industries covered by industry plans include canned fruits, carpets, ceramics, electronics, footwear, general rubber goods, glassware, margarine, motor vehicles and components, plastics, shipbuilding, starch and related products, textiles and apparel, tobacco, tires and tubes, wines, and writing instruments. Indus- tries covered by the plans account for about 30 percent of total industrial production. 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 342 NEW ZEALAND although in many cases the pace of liberalization has been accelerated. On December 17, 1987, it was announced that industries currently under industry plans would be included in the general tariff reduction programs on the expiration of the Plans unless compelling reasons exist for continued special treatment. Also, motor vehicles will cease to be covered by import licensing on January 1, 1989, and tariffs will be reduced on January 1, 1989 and January 1, 1990. Similarly, textiles, apparel, and shipbuilding, as a result of the review of the indus- try plans in 1988, will cease to be covered by import licensing in 1989. Under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement (ANZCERTA) and the South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPAR- TECA),3 imports generally enter duty free from Aus- tralia and the SPARTECA countries. A few remaining quantitative restrictions on imports from Australia are expected to be removed by July 1990. Under the ANZCERTA, from July 1990, antidumping actions to be taken by the two governments against each other's imports for purposes of redressing unfair trade practices are expected to be replaced by mea- sures to be taken under domestic trade practices legislation. Eligible imports from developing countries that have not graduated beyond a specified threshold are accorded preferential tariff preferences under the Generalized System of Preferences. In addition, duty-free access is granted to all imports from 36 countries classified as "least developed" by the United Nations. With a few exceptions, tariffs are not imposed on finished goods that are not pro- duced domestically. Payments for Invisibles The registered banks and other authorized for- eign exchange dealers are permitted to sell foreign exchange for invisible payments; and the remit- tance abroad of dividends, interest, profits, and other forms of contractual obligation to nonresi- dents may be freely made, although in both cases there is a reporting requirement for statistical purposes. The ANZCERTA also provided for a liberalization of trade in services between Australia and New Zea- land subject to the foreign investment policies of 3The islands under this arrangement are those constituting the South Pacific Forum (in addition to Australia and New Zealand), Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa. both countries. Certain trading activities are ex- cluded from the ANZCERTA, such as telecom- munications, aviation, radio and television broad- casting, and postal services. Exports and Export Proceeds There is no requirement for obligatory return of export earnings (including foreign currency earned for performing services in New Zealand for foreign nationals) through the banking system. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific requirements have been met and an export permit has been issued. The Export Market Development Taxation Incen- tive (EMDTI), aimed at encouraging the develop- ment of export markets through the provision of tax rebates, is expected to be phased out by 1990. Proceeds from Invisibles Remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies ordinarily resident in New Zealand) and interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio in- vestment are not required to be repatriated. The ANZCERTA provided for a liberalization of trade in services provided by New Zealand residents in Australia, subject to certain conditions (as noted in the section on Payments for Invisibles above). The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles such as in- terest and dividends is permitted, and the foreign currency proceeds may be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers may bring into the country un- limited amounts of foreign and domestic bank notes and coin. Capital In general, consent is not required in respect of capital receipts, although overseas entities seeking to establish themselves in New Zealand must obtain the approval of the Overseas Investment Commis- sion. Nonresident persons or companies wishing to make a direct investment in a New Zealand com- pany through the purchase or exchange of shares are also required to obtain the consent of the Over- seas Investment Commission in respect of any pro- posed offer for such shares whenever the invest- ment would confer on the offerer the beneficial entitlement to 25 percent or more of any class of shares, or enable the offerer to exercise 25 percent or more of the voting power at any general meeting. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 343 Residents are permitted to purchase foreign ex- change for investment purposes. There are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of assets by emigrants. Remittance abroad of legacies from the estate of a New Zealand resident is freely permitted. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coin in New Zealand without restriction. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than gold coin and jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Customs Department; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are licensed restrictively. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments January 1. All customs tariffs on imports from Australia, except those covered by the modified arrangements, were removed under the ANZCERTA. July 1. The import licensing requirements would be phased out for industries not covered by the industry plans. In addition, customs tariff rates would be reduced in five steps over a four-year period starting from this date. Average tariff rates for these industries are expected to be reduced by one third by 1992 under this program. Exports and Export Proceeds September 16. At the request of the United States, New Zealand agreed to limit its beef exports to the United States to 201,852 tons in 1988. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nicaragua is the Nicaraguan New Cordoba. Nicaragua maintains a dual ex- change rate system, consisting of an official ex- change rate of C$920 = US$1 and an exchange rate administered by the two authorized exchange houses (i.e., a legal parallel market, with several branches throughout the country). On Decem- ber 30, 1988, the buying and selling rates of the exchange houses were C$4,500 and C$4,750 per US$1, respectively. The official exchange rate ap- plies to most exchange transactions, except tourism, private remittances, and payments for certain im- ports and invisibles. The latter group of transactions is effected at the exchange rate determined by the exchange houses. In addition, there is an unrecog- nized parallel market in which the value of the new cordoba fluctuates widely. Only the Central Bank, the authorized commercial banks, and the autho- rized exchange houses can buy and sell foreign exchange; transactions outside the banking system and the authorized exchange houses are prohibited. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Foreign currency-denominated accounts can be opened in the banking system. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on July 30, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank has the sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange but has authorized commercial banks and the exchange house to make foreign exchange transactions. However, the Central Bank approves all foreign ex- change transactions of the banking system. All re- quests for purchases of foreign exchange through the banking system are subject to a comprehensive system of administrative rationing. Requests relat- ing to low-priority imports and invisible payments are normally not approved. The Secretariat of For- eign Exchange Allocation (CAD) is responsible for classifying imports according to their relative pri- ority. The Central Bank is also responsible for issu- ing export authorizations. Some transactions not eligible for foreign exchange through the banking system can be effected in the legal parallel market or through an authorized own foreign currency de- posit account. The authorized exchange houses can conduct certain transactions in the legal parallel market. Exchange licensing in the official market is fully integrated with import licensing. There are three steps in the process of approving requests for pur- chase from the banking system of foreign exchange for imports. First, the pertinent sectoral ministry determines if a foreign exchange request is consis- tent with development priorities. Second, the Emer- gency Foreign Exchange Commission (CEO) deter- mines if requests approved by each sectoral ministry are within their exchange budget allocation and if global demand for foreign exchange is consis- tent with the supply. Third, the Central Bank Com- mission on Foreign Exchange Allocation (CAD) does a final check on the requirements of the first two steps and on the actual availability of foreign ex- change. A representative of the President of the Republic presides over the meetings of the CAD, which makes the final decision on requests for for- eign exchange. Importers using their own foreign currency ac- counts are not required to go through the four-step approval process, but they are expected to show proof of sources of funds. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily convertible into U.S. dollars in international markets. Payments to Costa Rica and El Salvador with respect to trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the Central Ameri- can Clearing House; however, there are monthly limits on bank notes per exporter for compensation through the Central American Clearing House. Trade transactions with Honduras are settled on a three-month basis in U.S. dollars through a recipro- cal credit arrangement; if the outstanding balance is in excess of US$5 million, immediate settlement is required. Trade transactions with Guatemala are carried out in U.S. dollars. 344 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA 345 Imports and Import Payments All importers using foreign exchange through the banking system are required to be registered with the Ministry of External Trade; this requirement can be waived for individuals who import only occa- sionally for their own needs and who make import settlements with foreign exchange obtained in the official market. There are three categories of regis- tered importers: (1) Empresa Nicaraguense de Insumos Agropecuarios, which has a virtual monopoly on im- ports of agricultural inputs; (2) Empresa Nicaraguense de Importaciones, which imports capital goods for the People's Property Area (APP) enterprises (both being state enterprises under the supervision of the Ministry of External Trade); and (3) commercial and industrial importers, including border traders. Border traders are given a general license to import or export up to the equivalent of US$1,500 a month (at the exchange house market rate). In principle, general import licenses are valid until the end of the calendar year in which they are issued, but the Central Bank may limit the validity of licenses in certain cases to only 60 days. For individual imports other than imports fi- nanced with own foreign currency deposit accounts or with foreign exchange from the exchange house market, a specific permit is required. Importers must initiate their application with the pertinent sectoral ministry. Applications for goods with the higher priorities are then submitted to the CAD for further examination. Examined applications are submitted to the CAD for approval. Imports eligible for foreign exchange through the banking system are settled at the official rate. Im- ports can also be financed with the use of own foreign currency deposit accounts. Payments for imports from the Central American region must be effected by bank check or certified check in cor- dobas, authorized for conversion through the Cen- tral American Clearing House. Payments for im- ports from outside the Central American region must be settled through the banking system.1 Some import payments are made with sight drafts, but most are made through letters of credit. In addition to custom duties, certain imports are also subject to a selective consumption tax, irrespec- tive of origin, and to a customs fee of C$1,000 per ton or fraction thereof. In addition, most com- 1 However, by virtue of Decree No. 1-L (effective March 1, 1963), the exchange proceeds from bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by-products exported through the ports of the re- gion of El Cabo and the Department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for imports consumed in these areas. modities, whether imported or domestically pro- duced, are subject to a 10 percent general sales tax. Payments for Invisibles Resident travelers are not allowed to take out more than US$1,000 in foreign bank notes or US$3,000 with a receipt from a foreign exchange house. Otherwise travelers must have a special per- mit from the Central Bank allowing them to take any specified amount of foreign bank notes out of the country. Travelers may not take out of the country more than C$1,000 a month in domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Five public enterprises under the Ministry of Ex- ternal Trade have a monopoly on the exports of coffee, cotton, meat, sugar, and certain nontradi- tional exports; exports of these items require a gen- eral authorization from the Central Bank. Other ex- ports require specific authorization from the Central Bank, which is issued after it is verified that the export prices are consistent with those prevailing in international markets. With a few exceptions, foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports must be surrendered to an au- thorized bank within 30 to 60 days of shipment. Failure to surrender foreign exchange from export proceeds will result in revocation of the export li- cense. Proceeds of all exports are surrendered at the official rate. However, 25 percent of the proceeds from industrial exports may be denominated in U.S. dollars and be used for any specified foreign ex- change expenditures of exporters. Also, 50 percent of the proceeds from nontraditional agricultural ex- ports may be retained and used for similar purposes. A few agricultural export products are subject to ad valorem taxes, which are applied progressively with the international prices for those exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles, other than tourism and private remittances, must be converted at the official rate. Transfers, insurance receipts, receipts from tourism, remunerations, and hono- raria and interest receipts may be sold at the foreign exchange house rate. Tourists are required to exchange US$60 at the official rate upon arrival, but can sell any other amount at the legal parallel rate. Charges for hotel rooms (including international telephone calls) must be settled in U.S. dollars. Receipts from pri- vate remittances may be sold at the exchange house rate, subject to a limit of US$500 per month. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 346 NICARAGUA Capital All capital transactions are effected at the official rate and require authorization from the Central Bank. Depending on the availability of foreign ex- change, central bank authorization is given for ser- vicing private external debt. Gold The Nicaraguan Mining Institute manages the country's gold production. The Central Bank is in charge of selling gold at prices prevailing in interna- tional gold markets. The Central Bank can sell gold to domestic, industrial, and other users. Commem- orative gold coins were issued in 1967, 1975, and 1980. Natural and juridical persons may trade gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement February 15. A new monetary unit called the new cordoba, equal to 1,000 old cordobas,2 was intro- duced, and a new official rate of C$10 per US$1 was established for most exchange transactions, except tourist receipts, private remittances, and payments for certain imports and invisibles. The latter group 2The old and new c6rdobas have the same symbol (C$). of transactions continued to be effected at the ex- change house fa te. February 18. The exchange house rate was initially set at C$10.25 per US$1. June 15. The official exchange rate would be ad- justed periodically according to an indicator of do- mestic price changes. Imports and Import Payments February 15. All exchange taxes on imports were eliminated. Exports and Export Proceeds February 15. The policy of guaranteed producer prices for traditional export products was discontinued. February 15. All differential surrender require- ments for the proceeds from nontraditional exports were eliminated, except for industrial exports. Proceeds from Invisibles February 15. The differential surrender require- ments for receipts from certain invisibles were eliminated. March 21. Transfers, insurance receipts, receipts from tourism, remunerations, and honoraria and interest receipts were allowed to be sold at the for- eign exchange house rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Niger is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 - F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.01 percent on transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU) and one of 0.025 percent on transfers to such countries. Transfers by the Treasury and the Postal Administration and transactions in bank notes and traveler's checks are exempted. Banks levy a fixed commission of CFAF 100 plus a propor- tional levy of 0.15 percent for transfers inside the WAMU. For transfers outside the French Franc Area, there is a further exchange commission at a market determined rate. Seventy-two percent of the revenue from commissions charged by the banks on transfers outside the WAMU must in turn be trans- ferred to the Treasury. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold transactions and domiciliation of exports and re- patriation of export proceeds, Niger's exchange con- trols do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Central Afri- can Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are consid- ered foreign countries. The contracting of forward exchange cover re- quires the prior authorization of the External Fi- nance and Insurance Directorate. Such cover may be provided only with respect to payments for per- mitted imports and the currency stipulated in the commercial contract. The maturity period must not exceed one or three months, depending on the na- ture of goods involved, and it is not renewable. JThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. There is no official scheme for currency swaps or guaranteed exchange rates for external debt servicing. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance and Insurance Control Directorate in the Ministry of Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, finan- cial institutions, the Postal Administration, and no- taries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO, the Postal Admin- istration, or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Craft Industry, subject to endorsement by the Exter- nal Finance and Insurance Control Directorate, ex- cept for licenses relating to gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the im- porter himself and are approved by the External Finance and Insurance Directorate. Prescription of Currency Since Niger has an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements with France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any French Franc Area country. Current pay- ments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspon- dent banks in France, in foreign currencies, or in French francs, through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. For- eign Accounts in Francs may be credited with BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Niamey by an authorized bank's foreign correspon- dent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident ac- counts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 348 NIGER that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of soap, cement, and certain printed cotton fabrics are prohibited, irrespective of origin, unless a special authorization is issued by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Craft In- dustry. Imports of rice, paddy, hulled rice, wheat flour, butane gas, several types of fabric, certain footwear, and certain plastic goods require prior authorization, irrespective of origin and whether an import license or import certificate is required. A similar regime applies to imports of sugar, except from member countries of the Common African and Mauritian Organization, and to imports of matches, unless they originate in a member country of the West African Economic Community (WAEC). Im- ports from France and from countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account of all goods other than those mentioned above (or those listed in Article 1 of Order No. 042/MC/DCE of Octo- ber 18, 1982) may be made freely without a license or certificate. Imports from other countries require either a license or an import certificate. Imports of virtually all goods from Algeria, Mo- rocco, Tunisia, and the six original member states of the European Communities (EC), many goods from other Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries and their past or present dependent territories, and a smaller num- ber of items from the United States and Canada are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Imports of nonliberalized goods from non-EC coun- tries outside the French Franc Area are made under global quotas in accordance with an annual pro- gram determined each year by the Ministry of Com- merce, Industry, and Craft Industry. Licenses for certain cotton fabrics are conditional upon pur- chases of the corresponding domestic product. Goods not subject to quantitative restriction may be imported with an import certificate. All import monopolies and quasi-monopolies (de facto monopolies and exclusive trading contracts), with the exception of imports of petroleum prod- ucts, were abolished during the second half of 1985. In particular, since October 1, 1985, the Societe Na- tionale de Commerce et de Production du Niger (COPRONIGER) no longer maintains a monopoly on the import of specified commodities, including salt, cigarettes, green tea, and certain textiles. Effective November 1, 1987, restrictions on the number of traders allowed to import rice and quantitative re- strictions on imports of rice and cement were abol- ished. All import transactions with foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c . i .f. at the border. Import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, pro- vided that the authorized bank is satisfied that the import transaction is genuine and in accordance with the import title. Import certificates require the visa of the External Finance and Insurance Directo- rate if the goods have to be paid for before they are imported. Foreign exchange may not be purchased before the payment due date if the goods have al- ready been imported, or until eight days prior to the shipment date if the goods are covered by docu- mentary credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Finance and Insurance Control Directorate, which for certain transactions has delegated its powers to the authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permit- ted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permit- ted freely when the basic transaction has been ap- proved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account may obtain an exchange alloca- tion equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip (CFAF 50,000 for children under 10 years), which may be taken up to twice a year; any foreign ex- change in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining after re- turn to Niger must be surrendered within eight days to an authorized bank. The transfer of savings f rom their salaries by foreigners working in Niger is subject to prior approval by the External Finance and Insurance Control Directorate and is normally limited to 50 percent of net pay. Larger transfers are permitted, however, against presentation of sup- porting documents. Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account, in addition to their travel ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER 349 allocation. Residents traveling to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes but, when traveling to a country of the French Franc Area outside the WAMU, must declare these if they exceed CFAF 150,000. Nonresi- dent travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon entry,2 or, if no declaration was made, up to CFAF 25,000; they may also take out freely any amount of foreign cur- rency traveler's checks, etc., issued abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports of rice and paddy to all countries require the prior authorization of the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Craft Industry. Exports of millet and sorghum are prohibited unless covered by a ship- ping document in the name of the Office des Pro- duits Vivriers du Niger (OPVN). Gum arabic may be exported only by COPRONIGER. With the exception of peanuts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain other imported items, all of which require a license, all other exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries may be made freely. Exports of domestic products and imported commodities to other coun- tries require a license and an exchange commit- ment. In principle, the due date of payment for exports to foreign countries must not be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destina- tion. Proceeds from exports, regardless of the buy- ing country, must be collected and surrendered through an authorized intermediary bank within one month of the due date. All exports, regardless of destination, must be domiciled with an autho- rized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries 2This amount is reduced, when appropriate, by the amount sold for CFA francs and increased by the amount of foreign notes acquired in Niger by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a foreign currency account, by exchange for other foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase with CFA francs (such repurchase being limited to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000). from foreign assets must be collected and surren- dered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may import any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin). Residents must surrender within eight days of entry any for- eign currency in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000. Capital Capital transactions between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require approval by the exchange control authority and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward and out- ward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Nigerien Govern- ment, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Niger has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and other countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special con- trols are maintained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate development operations abroad; these special con- trols also apply to France (as defined above), Mona- co, and countries linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. All the special provi- sions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Niger re- quire prior authorization by the Minister of Fi- nance;3 75 percent of the value must be financed Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 350 NIGER from borrowing abroad. Foreign direct investments in Niger4 must be declared to the Minister of Fi- nance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the project. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Nigerien invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days of each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying con- trol of a company or an enterprise. Mere participa- tion is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Fi- nance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct in- vestment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not ex- ceed CFAF 2 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds of the loan are immediately sold on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repay- ment of a foreign borrowing constituting a direct investment is subject to the same formalities as the liquidation of a direct investment; the repayment of Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Niger of foreign companies. other borrowings requires authorization only to the extent that the borrowing itself was subject to prior authorization. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted cer- tain guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of July 31, 1968 and its amendments. The facilities granted under the previous Investment Code have been maintained. The new Investment Code provides for privileged or regular treatment. The latter provides assurances, for both new and existing enterprises, with respect to indemnities in the event of expropriation and concerning non- discrimination between Nigerien nationals and for- eign nationals; tax exemptions may be granted for new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and falling within specified categories of industrial activities. Such treatment may be accorded under two dif- ferent regimes, the approval regime and the agree- ment regime. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are: (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian Naira. A two-tier Foreign Exchange Market (FEM), consist- ing of an auction held by the Central Bank of Nigeria and an interbank market, is in operation. The fort- nightly auction is organized by the Central Bank of Nigeria, in which both the authorized foreign ex- change dealers and the Central Bank of Nigeria participate. An exchange charge of 1 percent is levied on transactions in the auction market. The FEM combines the fortnightly price-setting in the auction with the daily operation of interbank and customer exchange markets. There is a 1 percent maximum spread between buying and selling ex- change rates for customer and interbank transac- tions. Authorized dealers must sell foreign ex- change obtained through the auction with a margin of not more than 1 percent of the buying rate. For foreign currency obtained from non-auction sources, the exchange rate is free to vary in response to market conditions, subject to the requirement that the spread between the buying and selling rates quoted by authorized dealers is 1 percent. On December 30, 1988, the midpoint exchange rate of the naira in the auction market was N 5.35 = US$1.1 Forward exchange transactions at market- determined rates are permitted between foreign ex- change dealers and their customers. These transac- tions must be the counterpart of an underlying im- port or export transaction, and the maturity of the Effective January 9, 1989, the exchange system was unified, replacing the two-tier FEM. The new foreign exchange system consists of a dealer market and a daily allocation of foreign exchange to that market by the Central Bank of Nigeria at the prevailing market exchange rate. In the dealer market, foreign exchange from sources other than official receipts from oil ex- ports and official borrowing is sold directly by private sector recipients to the foreign exchange dealers. The Central Bank allocates to foreign exchange dealers all official foreign exchange receipts (after deduction for official payments abroad and the targeted accumulation of international reserves), but the dealers are free to sell to their customers for any payments abroad consistent with Nigeria's liberal exchange control system. The applicable exchange rate, called the central rate, is based on a simple or weighted average of bids submitted by the banks on that day. Variations in the central rate do not exceed 2 percent between any two business days. Unified buying and selling rates are also announced based on bids. Authorized dealers must sell foreign exchange obtained through the market at a margin of not more than 1 percent of the buying rate. On March 11, 1989, the central rate was N 7.59 = US$1, and the buying and the selling rate was N 7.55 and N 7.03 per US$1, respectively. The buying and selling rates of authorized dealers do not differ significantly from the Central Bank's rates. cover must not extend beyond six months in the first instance. Authorized foreign exchange dealers are allowed to grant extension of the maturity of cover for a maximum period of an additional six months without referring to the Central Bank. Any request for fu r ther extension must be referred to the Central Bank for approval. The Central Bank of Nigeria, however, does not engage in forward exchange transactions. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for transfers of capital abroad; for profits and dividends; for granting "ap- proved status" to nonresident investments in Nigeria; and for approving any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank is the principal admin- istrator of exchange control. All licensed commer- cial banks and merchant banks have been ap- pointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance and are empowered to deal in foreign cur- rencies and to approve applications in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central Bank. Any application that does not fall within the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted for the transactions mentioned above to the Ministry of Finance. Certain hotels and rest houses have also been appointed authorized buyers of foreign currency and traveler's checks. Private sector foreign exchange receipts must be repatriated to Nigeria and may be sold in the FEM2 or may be retained in Domiciliary Accounts with commercial banks in Nigeria; they are not required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to some ex- ternal payments falling due on transactions entered into prior to the introduction of the two-tier FEM. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments may be made in naira to an External Account in Nigeria or in any foreign cur- rency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries may be received in naira from an External Account, 2Since January 9, 1989, in the new foreign exchange market. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 352 NIGERIA in any foreign currency that is freely exchangeable for naira, or in any specified currency. Settlements with the central banks of West African states (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo) are normally made through the West African Clear- ing House in West African Units of Account (WAUA). Resident and Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of resident and nonresi- dent accounts: External Accounts, Nonresident Ac- counts, Domiciliary Accounts, and Blocked Ac- counts. External Accounts are maintained for diplomatic representatives of all countries and in- ternational organizations. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries, with payments from other External Accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, with payments to other External Accounts, and for purchases of for- eign currencies. Funds derived from local sources may be deposited in Nonresident Accounts. Such accounts may be credited with proceeds from ser- vices rendered locally, provided that the operation of such accounts has been reported to and approval has been obtained from the Central Bank before any foreign transfers are effected. Domiciliary Accounts may be funded by residents with foreign exchange derived from external sources, but not with foreign exchange purchases in the foreign exchange mar- ket. Blocked Accounts are accounts to which are credited funds that are blocked by directives given under Section 27 of the Exchange Control Act. Imports and Import Payments Import licensing was abolished with the introduc- tion of the FEM on September 29, 1986. However, the importation of some 18 items is prohibited. These include, among others, cigarettes, poultry (except day-old chicks), vegetables, fresh fru i t, eggs, textile fabrics, beer, fresh milk, rice and rice products, maize and maize products, wheat and wheat products, mineral water, and all sparkling wine. All imports valued at US$5,000 (c. & f.) or more, except those specifically exempted by the Govern- ment, are subject to preshipment inspection to en- sure that all imports into Nigeria are of the correct quality and quantity according to the contracts and that only the normal price of that product in the country of supply is paid.3 Unless a "Clean Report of Findings" on the goods to be imported has been issued, foreign exchange settlement for imports may not be effected. Payment for imports covered by confirmed letters of credit is made by the overseas correspondents on behalf of Nigerian banks, on presentation of the specified documents to the overseas correspon- dents. However, such payment is made on the un- derstanding that the goods paid for will arrive in Nigeria and that all shipping documents relating to the imported goods are lodged by importers with the authorized exchange dealer as agents of the Nigerian Government within 21 days of negotiation of the specified documents. Bills of entry (for im- ports covered by confirmed letters of credit) must be submitted to the authorized exchange dealer within 90 days of negotiation and payment by overseas correspondent banks. All other means of payment require submission to the authorized exchange dealer of the full set of documents, evidencing the receipt of the goods in Nigeria. Delivery of foreign exchange for a valid purchase (spot) order must take place within three working days of the date of the purchase contract. Payments for Invisibles Nigeria does not maintain restrictions on pay- ments for invisibles. Basic allowances are provided for some payments. As with imports, verification is on an ex post basis—i.e., depending on the pay- ments arrangements, based on documentation ob- tained af ter the purchase of foreign exchange. The basic allowance for tourist travel is US$500 a year, and for business travel, US$5,000 a trip for an enterprise. Payments for international air tickets are to be made in naira. Hotels appointed as authorized buyers of foreign exchange may buy foreign ex- change from visitors to Nigeria and may convert the unspent naira balances of such visitors into foreign exchange at any time, provided that evidence of previous conversion into naira is adequately docu- mented. Remittances abroad by expatriate residents of up to 75 percent of net salary after tax are consid- ered by authorized dealers subject to documenta- tion requirements. Final balance applications in- volving the transfer of accumulated savings are 3The following items are exempted from the inspection re- quirement: gold; precious stones; objects of art; explosives and pyrotechnic products; ammunition; implements of war; live ani- mals; fresh, chilled, frozen, or tinned fruits and vegetables; scrap metals; household and personal effects, including used motor vehicles; parcel post or samples; and petroleum and refined petroleum products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA 353 considered subject to the approved guidelines and confirmation by the Central Bank that the expatriate concerned had not previously been granted his final balance entitlement. The exportation of naira in excess of N 50 is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of African antiques, works of art, and objects used (or which have been used) in African ceremonies is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. Exports of unrefined gold and pe- troleum products require an export license. Exports of petroleum are handled by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation and are subject to special arrangements. Foreign exchange receipts from private sector ex- ports may be sold freely in the FEM (see footnote 2) or retained in Domiciliary Accounts; all previous requirements for surrender to the Central Bank were abolished, with effect from September 29, 1986. Proceeds from Invisibles For statistical purposes only, declaration of for- eign currency imports of the equivalent of US$5,000 and above is required. However, where the traveler may wish to re-export part or all of the foreign currency brought in in the form of bank notes and traveler's checks, he must declare the total amount brought in even if it is less than US$5,000. The importation of naira is prohibited beyond the max- imum N 50 allowance to residents for settlement of expenses immediately following their return to Nigeria. Capital Applications for capital transfers abroad are ap- proved by the Federal Ministry of Finance subject to satisfactory documentation, and transfers are effected through the FEM. Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies is also subject to approval by the Ministry of Fi- nance. The permission of the Ministry of Finance is required for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any non- resident individual or company, and (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) which is controlled directly or indirectly from out- side Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or over- draf ts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign cur- rency securities or buy from or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and nego- tiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Exchange for the transfer of certain assets by emi- grants or expatriates is granted on final departure from the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply with the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decrees of 1972 and 1977 may take place upon receipt. Ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy have been set by the Indigenization De- cree of 1972, as amended in February 1974, July 1976, and January 1977. Nonresidents intending to make direct investments in Nigeria may apply to the Ministry of Finance for approved status, the grant- ing of which means that sympathetic consideration will be given to fu tu re requests to repatriate the capital and related profits and dividends. Reinvest- ment of remittable dividends is allowed without the requirement of matching capital import. However, the granting of approved status for such investment is subject to the approval of the Federal Ministry of Finance. The granting of approved status is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. Further- more, this status is not normally granted when in- ternally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, or bank credit or locally raised loans are in- vested in local enterprises. Foreign-owned com- panies and commercial banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. To facilitate the inflow of direct capital invest- ment, the Industrial Development and Coordinat- ing Committee (IDCC) deals with all matters relat- ing to approval for direct capital investment, subject to the provisions of the Nigerian Enterprises Promo- tion Decree, 1977. Applications for the remittance of profits, dividends, etc., in respect of capital invest- ment made through the FEM (see footnote 2) are considered by the Federal Ministry of Finance and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 354 NIGERIA approved subject to documentation requirements. Funds so approved are repatriated through the FEM (see footnote 2). In July 1988, the Central Bank of Nigeria pub- lished guidelines for an external debt conversion program for Nigeria and established a Debt Conver- sion Program (DCP) to be supervised by a Debt Conversion Committee (DCC) appointed by the Federal Government. The DCC and DCP regulate the purchase of selected Nigerian foreign debt in- struments at a discount and the disposition of the naira proceeds of conversions of such debt. Eligible instruments were initially defined as uninsured trade debt denominated in promissory notes. When the rescheduling agreement with commercial banks is completed in early 1989, it is anticipated that additional instruments representing debt to com- mercial banks will be made eligible for the debt conversion provisions. All legitimate holders of promissory notes/debt instruments are eligible to apply to the DCC for debt conversion provided that the foreign exchange used to acquire the instru- ments originated from abroad and not from foreign exchange purchases in Nigeria. Eligible uses for the naira proceeds from debt conversion are: (1) conversion to cash for the pur- pose of making a gift/grant to Nigerian entities; (2) conversion for expansion or recapitalization of investments in privatized enterprises; (3) conver- sion for investment in completely new projects. The DCC evaluates each application and determines eli- gibility for participation in an auction to be con- ducted by the Central Bank. The amounts and tim- ing of the auction are determined by the DCC. Restrictions on remittances of redemption pro- ceeds and incomes arising therefrom are: (1) inter- est income, profits/dividends, patent license fees, and other invisibles connected with approved proj- ects under the DCP may not be repatriated for a minimum period of five years from the date of re- lease of redemption proceeds for actual investment or five years after such profits/dividends are made or paid, whichever is later; (2) any capital proceeds arising from subsequent disposal of the investment made under the program may not be repatriated for a minimum period of ten years after effective invest- ment of the proceeds; repatriation of capital after ten years may not exceed 20 percent a year. Gold With the permission of the Federal Ministry of Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not al- lowed, without special permission, to hold or ac- quire gold in any form other than jewelry or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Federal Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Furthermore, the import of gold coins requires an import license. Imports of gold coin and gold and silver bullion are free of duty when made by the Central Bank; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 percent ad valorem. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments February 8. The following items were added to the prohibited list of imports: barley, malt, aluminum sulfate, and retreaded tires. Unmanufactured wood was removed from the prohibited list of imports. Exports and Export Proceeds January 29. The prohibition on exports of refined petroleum products was lifted with respect to ex- ports to West African countries. Capital July 5. The guidelines on an external debt conver- sion program for Nigeria were published by the Central Bank of Nigeria. The guidelines established a Debt Conversion Program (DCP) and a Debt Con- version Committee (DCC). The purpose is to regu- late the purchase of selected Nigerian foreign debt instruments at a discount and to provide for dis- position of the naira proceeds of conversions of such debt. Eligible instruments were initially defined as uninsured trade debt denominated in promissory notes. All legitimate holders of these notes were made eligible to apply to the DCC for debt conver- sion provided that the foreign exchange used to acquire the notes originated from abroad and not from foreign exchange purchased in Nigeria. Eligi- ble uses for the naira proceeds from debt conversion are: (1) conversion to cash for the purpose of making a gift/grant to Nigerian entities; (2) conversion for expansion or recapitalization of investments in pri- vatized enterprises; (3) conversion for investment in completely new projects. Interested parties must submit applications to the DCC, which will deter- mine eligibility for participation in an auction to be conducted by the Central Bank. The amounts and timing of the auction will be determined by the DCC. November 30. The first auction of foreign debt in- struments was conducted for a face amount of US$40 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Norway is the Norwegian Krone. The external value of the krone is pegged to a cur- rency index reflecting the average change in the exchange rates of the 14 currencies most important to Norway's external trade and payments. The ex- change rate is managed so as to allow only limited fluctuations (±2 .25 percent) around the central value for the index. The weights of the index are, in principle, based on Norway's exports of processed goods to each of the countries whose currencies are included, also taking into account competitive rela- tions with third countries. The exchange rate of the krone for the U.S. dollar, the principal intervention currency, is quoted daily, together with those of 18 other currencies, on the basis of the market rates. On December 31,1988, the buying and selling rates the U.S. dollar1 were NKr 6.5590 and for NKr 6.5810, respectively, per US$1. Forward purchases and forward sales of foreign currency against kroner must take place through a Norwegian authorized bank unless special permis- sion has been granted for different procedures. On application and under certain conditions, business enterprises may be permitted to enter into forward exchange transactions with foreign banks. An au- thorized bank may purchase and sell foreign cur- rency for forward delivery from and to domestic and foreign banks as well as other nonresidents. In addition, an authorized bank may purchase and sell foreign currency for forward delivery from and to a domestic customer, provided that it can be verified that the forward transaction covers an authorized payment, that the forward contract falls due not later than the underlying payment, and that the amount of the forward transaction does not exceed the underlying payment. With the permission of the Bank of Norway, au- thorized banks may write currency options for non- bank residents. Currency options, in addition to covering a foreign exchange risk in the period of an offer or tender, are subject to the same rules as forward foreign exchange transactions. Companies that conduct most of their sales on foreign markets and have extensive foreign exchange dealings abroad and close business links with foreign banks may be permitted to enter into foreign exchange transactions with foreign banks. Forward pre- Quotation on the Foreign Exchange at noon. miums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Forward transactions with nonbank residents by authorized banks and foreign ex- change brokers must have a commercial basis. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Norway formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Customs in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. Most current payments are exempt from exchange control, provided that they are made through authorized banks in accordance with the currency prescriptions issued by the Bank of Nor- way. Authority to conduct most current payments has been delegated to authorized banks, which re- port such payments to the Bank of Norway. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner in Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Con- vertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all countries. They may be credited with authorized payments from any country, with transfers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of con- vertible currencies. They may be debited for autho- rized payments from any country to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any for- eign currency. Authorized banks are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts for nonresidents, subject to the regulations on such accounts (see section on Capital, below).2 2Residents with both income and expenditures in foreign cur- rencies may also open foreign exchange accounts at domestic banks without a license from the Bank of Norway. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 356 NORWAY Imports and Import Payments Most commodities do not require an import li- cense, but all imports from South Africa and Namibia are prohibited. Certain textiles and gar- ments are subject to import licensing for sur- veillance purposes. Following Norway's accession to the previous Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) on July 1, 1984, the global quotas formerly in force under Article XIX of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) have been phased out and replaced by bilateral agreements. In this connec- tion, Norway has concluded bilateral agreements with 18 textile suppliers. The agreements entered into under the current MFA are considerably more liberal than those which Norway had under the previous MFA. Norway has been able to maintain its policy of not introducing restraints on imports from developing countries. Besides textile products, there are licensing requirements for a few industrial import items from the Republic of Korea, for certain state-trading countries, and for some additional products from Taiwan Province of China. With these exceptions, industrial goods may be imported freely upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain agricultural goods are re- stricted, irrespective of origin. A global quota list contains a few quotas for agricultural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to all countries. New and sec- ondhand ships and certain categories of fishing ves- sels may be imported freely, but special permission is required in order to ensure compliance with the regulations regarding payments in advance of deliv- ery. The import of radio equipment and radio con- trol equipment is subject to approval by the Directo- rate of Telecommunications. The import of a small number of commodities is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, fishing gear made of textile materials, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. Trade credits may be extended for export and import financing without a license from the Bank of Norway, provided the maturity is less than five years. However, a license is required if such financ- ing is arranged through a foreign or domestic finan- cial institution, although banks may extend short- term bill of exchange credits freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments to any country for all current invisibles, including income from capital and contractual amortization, may be made freely. There are no limits on the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. For business travel, the banks may sell reasonable amounts. Each person leaving Nor- way may take up to NKr 5,000 in Norwegian bank notes. Nonresidents leaving Norway may, in addi- tion, export any foreign bank notes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to any country against a declaration or a license. Exports to South Africa and Namibia, however, are prohibited. Ex- ports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports valued at not more than NKr 2,000 to any country are exempt from declara- tion or export license; for arms and ammunition this limit is NKr 500, and for fish and fish products, Nkr 1,000. If payment is not received within 12 months of delivery, a license from the Bank of Norway is re- quired. In principle, all exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. A person entering Norway may bring in any amount in Norwegian currency and in other means of payment. Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Norway by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. The regulation of inward direct investment in connection with transfers of share capital is limited to a reporting system. Outward transfers of capital require individual licenses. Li- censes for outward transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted freely, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automatically. Payments for contractual amortization are also permitted freely. Nonresidents are allowed to purchase non- quoted as well as quoted shares within the limit of the Concession Acts and the respective companies' Articles of Association. Foreign individuals and for- eign firms are not permitted to buy Norwegian bonds; certain exemptions are provided for foreign insurance companies. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relat- ing to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely. Transfers relating to family loans require a license from the Bank of Norway. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 357 In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other autho- rized investments, have to be surrendered. Nor- wegian shipowners, insurance companies, and bro- kers may open accounts with foreign banks; upon special permission from the Bank of Norway, other Norwegian firms may also hold such accounts. Applications for capital transfers to make direct investments abroad are treated liberally. The grant- ing of loans, credits, or guarantees to and invest- ments in South Africa and Namibia, however, are prohibited. Residents are allowed to purchase quoted and nonquoted foreign shares. However, purchase of nonquoted shares requires a license. Norwegian citizens are allowed to buy foreign bonds within a limit of NKr 1 million a person and NKr 5 million a firm. Residents may, upon applica- tion, transfer capital abroad to purchase real estate for recreational purposes. There is a 5 percent tax on such purchases. There are no nominal limits on authorized banks' borrowing abroad, but authorized banks and larger financial institutions have to balance their combined spot and forward positions in foreign currency at the end of the day within margins varying according to the size of total assets. Banks are permitted to hold positions in any currency that is covered in other currencies. A license from the Ministry of Finance and Customs is required to raise bond loans in foreign countries. All other inward transfers of capital by nonbank residents require approval by the Bank of Norway. Incurring or providing guarantee obliga- tions abroad also requires approval by the Bank of Norway. With the exception of loans to financial and municipal enterprises, new long-term foreign bor- rowing by Norwegian commercial enterprises do not require a license from the Bank of Norway. The level of short-term loans during 1989 should not exceed the outstanding amount at the end of 1988 of NKr 13.8 billion. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coin not contained in jewelry. Domestic sales of gold bullion and gold coin are subject to the regular value-added tax at a rate of 20 percent. Changes During 1988 Capital December 5. The restrictions on long-term borrow- ing abroad by enterprises were further liberalized. All joint stock companies with a share capital of at least NKr 500,000 (with the exception of financial and municipal companies) were allowed to raise foreign currency loans without a license issued by the Bank of Norway if the transaction is conducted through an authorized bank. In addition, the quota on foreign currency loans by enterprises was abol- ished. All companies in the export sector, industries competing on the domestic market, the fish- farming industry, and all joint stock companies with a share capital of at least NKr 500,000 were permitted to raise foreign currency loans abroad and to borrow from Norwegian financial institutions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Oman is the Rial Omani, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RO 1 = US$2.6008. Oman avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Oman maintains fixed buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar; on December 31, 1988, the rates were RO 1 = US$2.6042 (buying) and RO 1 = US$2.5974 (sell- ing), respectively. The commercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Oman informed the Fund on June 19, 1974 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Cen- tral Bank, but there is no exchange control legisla- tion in Oman. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited, and the use of their currencies is also prohibited. No other prescription of currency re- quirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of a few commodities are pro- hibited for reasons of health, security, or public policy. Also, seasonal bans are imposed on the im- portation of fruits and vegetables which are grown locally. In addition, companies operating in Oman and trading in manufactured oil products are pro- hibited from importing such products as long as the domestic refinery is deemed by Oman to be produc- ing the specified products in quantities that satisfy local demand. Licenses are required for imports. Foreign exchange for payments abroad for autho- rized imports may be obtained freely. and foods tuffs may be prohibited in times of short- age in Oman. All other commodities may be ex- ported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the cur- rency involved. Exports of Maria Theresa dollars are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or be received from Israel or South Africa. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents, except that no payments may be made to or received from Israel or South Africa. Investment in business firms in Oman by foreign physical or juridical persons requires prior approval. Such in- vestment is regulated by a foreign investment law enacted in June 1983, and by a law for the Organiza- tion and Encouragement of Industry, which came into effect on January 15, 1979. Under the 1983 foreign investment law, joint ventures are offered a five-year tax holiday, renewable for an additional period of five years under certain conditions; the Oman Development Bank can provide medium- and long-term loans at preferential interest rates for project financing in petroleum, agricultural, fish- ery, and mineral sectors; and assistance in prein- vestment research can also be given. Foreign invest- ment is not permitted in trade and services, and foreign capital is encouraged to be directed to large production or manufacturing projects. Gold The monetary authorities and authorized resi- dent and nonresident banks may, without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also import and export gold in any form without a license and without payment of any customs duties or tax. Transactions involving Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited, and exports or re-exports of live animals Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 358 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan Rupee, for which the U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. A managed floating exchange rate system is operated, under which the State Bank of Pakistan (the central bank) sets on a daily basis the rate at which it will purchase and sell U.S. dollars in its dealings with authorized dealers. On December 30, 1988, the State Bank's spot buying and selling rates for transactions with authorized dealers were PRs 18.6500 and PRs 18.7433, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates forward up to 6 months were PRs 18.6500 and PRs 19.0231 per US$1, respectively; the buying and selling rates for- ward up to 12 months were PRs 18.0905 and PRs 19.3028 per US$1, respectively. All foreign ex- change transactions with the public must be con- ducted through authorized dealers and money changers, whose dealings must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. In the calculation of spot exchange rates for other currencies, a margin of 0.50 percent is provided on the previous day's clos- ing buying and selling rates for the currency con- cerned in the New York market. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover their requirements of specified currencies in foreign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified cur- rencies against U.S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, ei- ther spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. In addition, they offer forward cover in the currencies of member countries for exports and imports effected under the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) arrangement, with the State Bank standing ready to cover forward con- tracts reported by authorized dealers. Forward exchange cover in respect of private for- eign currency loans and suppliers' credits, as well as foreign currency loans under the pay-as-you- earn (PAYE) scheme, is covered by the State Bank under the Government's scheme for exchange risk cover, on payment of a fee based on the difference between the interest rates in Pakistan and interna- tional markets. In addition, forward exchange cover in respect of repatriable foreign currency loans for working capital requirements is allowed by the State Bank upon payment of a fee based on the difference between the interest rate in Pakistan and the inter- est rate payable on the loan. Since August 1, 1985, Foreign Exchange Bearer Certificates (FEBC) have been able to be purchased in foreign exchange by foreigners and Pakistanis. Denominated in Pakistan rupees, FEBCs can be freely brought into and taken out of the country, and can be encashed at any time in Pakistan rupees or in foreign exchange at the exchange rate prevail- ing at the time of the encashment. On December 19, 1988, the certificates were quoted at a premium of 7.3 percent. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated authority to a num- ber of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender require- ments, and to sell foreign exchange for specified purposes within limits prescribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for issuing licenses and permits, as well as for implementing import and export pol- icies. Certain foreign trade transactions are con- ducted through various state-trading agencies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (TCP), the Cotton Export Corporation, Ltd. (CECP), and the Rice Export Corporation, Ltd. (RECP). Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer, in principle, in any convertible currency or in Pakistan rupees from or to nonresident rupee bank accounts. Certain settlements with specified coun- tries are channeled through special accounts. Let- ters of credit for imports from all other countries must be established in foreign currency or in Pakistan rupees for credit to a nonresident bank account of the country of the beneficiary or of the country of origin or shipment of goods. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconvertible currencies. Trade in specified commodities with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czecho- slovakia, Hungary, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Poland, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. is settled through special nonconvertible accounts. The special accounts with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Po- land, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. are maintained in nonconvertible U.S. dollars. 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 360 PAKISTAN Payments to and from the Islamic Republic of Iran and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade and defense materials) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the re- spective central banks in U.S. dollars. Payments to, and receipts from, member countries of the ACU, other than the Islamic Republic of Iran (i.e., Bangla- desh, Burma, India, Nepal, and Sri Lanka), in re- spect of current transactions (other than those relat- ing to petroleum, natural gas, and their products) are effected through the ACU in Asian Monetary Units (AMUs) or in the domestic currency of one of the member countries involved in such transac- tions. No exchange control is exercised over transac- tions with Afghanistan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or in Afghan currency. Payments between Pakistan and Israel and South Africa are suspended. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resident outside Pakistan are designated as nonresi- dent accounts.1 Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for nonbank nonresi- dents without the prior approval of the State Bank in cases where the accounts are to be opened with funds received from abroad through banking chan- nels or with rupee funds that have been accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresi- dent accounts for specified purposes may be made by authorized banks without the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Pakistani nationals residing abroad and foreign nationals, whether resident abroad or in Pakistan, and firms and corporations and charitable bodies owned by persons who are otherwise eligible to open foreign currency accounts may open foreign currency accounts with banks in Pakistan without prior approval of the exchange control authorities. There are no restrictions on the currencies in which the accounts may be denominated; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt from income tax. A deposit holder wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from his account into Pakistan rupees. If a Pakistani national holding such an account returns to Pakistan, he may retain the account unless his stay exceeds three years; thereafter, the account must be closed and the exchange surrendered. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Authorized dealers under the foreign currency accounts facility may accept term deposits in foreign currency from banks operating abroad, including financial institutions owned by them; such term deposits must be at least US$10 million (or the equivalent in other currencies) for a maturity period of at least one year. Imports and Import Payments The 1988/89 Import Policy Order (IPO) outlines the regulations that apply to imports. The IPO di- vides imports into two categories: prohibited and negative list imports, and restricted imports. All items that do not appear either on the prohibited/ negative lists or restricted lists are freely importable. The prohibited and negative lists in principle con- sist of items banned for religious, security, or luxury consumption reasons; capital and consumer goods banned temporarily for protective reasons; and in- termediate goods used mainly in the production of capital and consumer goods that are banned for protective reasons.2 The restricted list of imports consists of six catego- ries: (1) 18 items or categories of goods importable only by the public sector; (2) 7 items or categories of goods importable only by industrial consumers; (3) imports by actual users of 11 items or categories of goods whose value exceeds PRs 10,000; (4) 33 items or categories of goods importable, subject to specified requirements, such as a permit by a public sector agency or fulfillment of technical specifica- tions; (5) 65 items or categories of goods importable only from specified sources under credits, barter trade, loans, or the U.S. PL. 480 program; and (6) 5 specified items subject to quantitative restric- tion. Imports of some items on the negative list are permitted under certain circumstances, principally by export industries, public sector agencies, or un- der the personal baggage scheme. All imports require a license, except goods im- ported by the Central Government for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land routes from Afghanistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification. Licenses are issued on the different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of indi- viduals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresi- dent rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. 2Some categories of currently prohibited imports fall outside of these categories (i.e., some prohibited items are not produced in Pakistan and they do not fit into the category of goods banned for religious, security, or luxury consumption reasons). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 361 basis of notification by the Chief Controller of Im- ports and Exports.3 Generally, licenses remain valid for 12 months, but when machinery is specifically manufactured, licenses can be obtained with a va- lidity period of up to 24 months. Licenses for im- ports are subject to a fee of 4 percent of the value of the license, payable at the time of issue. The import regime is subject to certain other sup- plementary qualifications, the most important of which are as follows: (1) Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports of goods originating in these countries but shipped from third countries. The private sector can import 249 specified items directly from India. (2) Dates may be imported only from Iraq. (3) Special provisions exist for the importation by export industries of items on the restricted (tied) list from untied sources and items on the negative list. Machinery on the nega- tive list may also be imported by nonexporting in- dustries up to specified amounts. (4) Private sector importers, other than those importing goods for personal use, who apply for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 20,000 or more must be mem- bers of approved trade organizations. (5) The max- imum c. & f. values for which licenses for the im- port of machinery and millwork can be issued against various sources of financing to different cat- egories are (a) up to PRs 12 million for commercial importers; (b) up to PRs 60 million for new units or expansion of existing units that are likely to cost less than PRs 700 million and not falling within the specified list of industries (i.e., those that are per- mitted to be set up without sanction of any govern- ment agency). In the case of units falling within a specified list of industries, the limit of PRs 60 million applies, subject to the condition that such units are duly sanctioned by the competent authority; (c) up to PRs 12 million for balancing modernization and replacement of existing units, excluding the textile industry; and (d) from PRs 6 million to PRs 24 mil- lion for balancing, modernization, and replacement of a unit, depending on the type and capacity of the machinery. Procurement of plant and equipment of a higher value is effected by the financing institu- tions, with the approval of the Ministry of Industry. Except for imports of books, journals, periodicals, and magazines, irrevocable letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports, as follows: (1) in the case of licenses issued against cash, letters of credit must be established within 180 days of the registration of the license with the State Bank of Pakistan, failing which the license will be deemed to have expired. (The time limit of 180 days may be curtailed in the case of import licenses for items notified by the Chief Controller of Imports and Ex- ports); (2) in the case of licenses issued against loans or credits, letters of credit must be established within 180 days of the date of issue of the license except as provided for in section (3) below. For im- ports under barter, the letters of credit must be opened within such period as may be specified in the relevant public notice issued by the Chief Con- troller of Imports and Exports; and (3) in the case of imports under tied loans or credits, which require the contracts to be approved by the Government of Pakistan, the importer must submit the contract within 120 days from the date of issue of the license and must open a letter of credit within 60 days from the date of final approval of the contract, failing which the license will be deemed to have expired. Oil companies and refineries are free to open letters of credit for the import of crude oil and petroleum products within the validity period of the underly- ing license. Remittances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in spe- cial cases—e.g., machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be paid to foreign manufacturers —the State Bank may authorize ad- vance payments for a part of the value of the goods. Authorized dealers may also make advance remit- tances, without prior approval of the State Bank, for imports of books, magazines, and journals by com- mercial importers. No payments are permitted for goods originating in or consigned from Israel or South Africa. With specified exceptions,4 the State Bank requires banks to take minimum margins against letters of credit for certain imports, ranging from 25 percent to 35 percent. Import surcharges at the rate of 7 percent ad valorem and Iqra surcharges at the rate of 5 percent ad valorem are levied on the c . i .f. value of imports. Certain items, such as medicine, books, fertilizer, and duty-free baggage, are exempted from the sur- charges. Certain goods, such as kerosene, light die- sel, and fuel oil, are exempted from import sur- charges but are subject to Iqra surcharges at the rate of 5 percent ad valorem. The elements of surcharges paid on imported raw materials for manufactures of export goods are also included in the duty drawback paid on such exports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. 3Licensing restrictions are applicable to arms and ammuni- tions, milk products, and ovaltine. 4The list consists mostly of raw materials and capital goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 362 PAKISTAN No remittances are permitted to Israel or South Af- rica. Authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accordance with the regulations. Certain remittances of a personal nature are subject to annual quotas, but applications in excess of the quotas may be approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remittances by Pakistani nationals to their families abroad require special authorization. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that ac- corded to the underlying trade transaction. Except with respect to certain aid shipments, transport insurance must be taken out with insurance com- panies in Pakistan. Commissions, brokerage, or other charges paid to foreign importers or agents by Pakistani exporters are generally limited to a max- imum of 5 percent of the invoice value, except for cotton and rice, for which the maximum is 1 per- cent. The maximum percentage for sporting goods, surgical instruments, cutlery, leather goods, ready- made garments and other textile made-ups, car- pets, and plastic manufactures is 7 percent; for engineering goods, it is 10 percent; and for books, journals, and magazines, it is 33Vs percent. The remittance of dividends declared out of cur- rent profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Govern- ment's approval. With the approval of the State Bank, profits of branches of foreign companies and banks may be remitted to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistani income tax authorities. Authorized dealers may sell foreign exchange up to US$1,000 a person every two years for private travel irrespective of the number of days spent abroad;5 this allocation can be used in installments. In addition to this quota, each traveler is allowed US$50 a trip. Additional exchange for business travel, medical treatment, education, and spon- sored cultural trips may be granted on an individual basis. Student maintenance and book allowances for study abroad are up to US$8,200 a year; the maximum for actual tuition is US$9,500 a year, and other onetime allowances are US$1,250. Student al- lowances can be drawn through authorized dealers without requiring state bank approval. Separate al- lowances, denominated in pounds sterling, apply to studies in the United Kingdom. Allowances for professional training abroad range from US$750 a month for junior executives to US$1,200 a month for senior executives. There are also specific allowances 5The allowances for travel to India and Bangladesh are less; there is no such allowance for travel to Afghanistan. for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia. Exporters of goods with annual export earnings in excess of PRs 2.5 million and exporters of services in excess of PRs 0.25 million are entitled to a renewable one-year blanket permission for the purchase of travel tickets and travel exchange of US$200 a day up to US$6,000 for each business trip. In addition, business trav- elers can settle credit card charges up to US$100 a day, subject to a maximum of US$3,000 for a 30-day visit, with the encashment of FEBCs. Foreigners leaving Pakistan within six months from the date of their arrival in Pakistan may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in (including foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of US$500 a person, subject to a maximum of US$2,000 a family) and PRs 100 a per- son in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for Afghanistan may take out any amount of Afghan currency. Nationals working abroad who visit Pakistan may retain for one year the foreign ex- change they brought in. When leaving Pakistan within one year from the date of arrival, they may take with them the unspent balance of foreign ex- change (including foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of US$500 a person, subject to a max- imum of US$2,000 a family). Larger amounts of foreign currency notes can be taken out if the cur- rency notes were declared on entry. Residents trav- eling to other foreign destinations may take out PRs 100 a person in Pakistan currency and any amount in foreign currency notes and traveler's checks sold by authorized banks under general au- thority delegated to them or under permission is- sued by the State Bank. Foreigners may make family remittances of up to 50 percent of net income or US$750 a month, whichever is larger. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities to any destina- tion and all exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited.6 Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. However, certain specified exports are subject to export quotas (for example, maize, gram, camels, and split gram), quality controls (such as batteries, electric bulbs and appliances, and oil cakes), or minimum export prices (such as private sector exports of Basmati rice and cotton). The CECP is responsible for the export of cotton, although the private sector has also been inducted 6Prohibited exports include ferrous and nonferrous metals (excluding iron and steel manufactured goods), edible oils, grains, dairy products, animal fats, beef, mutton, timber, certain hides and skins, pulses and beans, wet-blue leather made from cowhides and calfhides, wheat bran, wheat straw, and charcoal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 363 into the export trade. Cotton is also exported to India without involvement of any public sector agency; non-Basmati rice is exported through the RECP although exports of Basmati rice are allowed by the private sector under brand names in pack- ings of up to 20 kilograms; cement is exported through the State Cement Corporation. Chemical fertilizers can also be exported by private sector units. The State Bank requires a declaration by the ex- porter that payment will be received in accordance with the prescribed method and within the pre- scribed time except for goods manufactured in the export-processing zones. The authorized dealer cer- tifies the export form for shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months of shipment, although the State Bank may allow an extension of this period. Ex- porters may, however, with the prior approval of the State Bank, grant deferred payment terms. The sur- render of Afghan currency accruing from exports to Afghanistan is not required. Export financing at concessional rates is provided for all exports, with the exception of 24 specified items7 based on irrevocable letters of credit or firm export orders on a case-by-case basis under Part I of the Export Finance Scheme,8 or, alternatively, based on the exporter's performance in the previous year on a revolving basis under Part II of the Scheme. A rebate of 55 percent is available against the tax payable on income attributable to the sales proceeds from exports of goods manufactured in Pakistan. For value-added items, such as engineering prod- ucts, garments, and leather, the rate of rebate is 75 percent. Industrial units established under the PAYE scheme are permitted to utilize up to 50 per- cent of the f .o.b. value of exports for the servicing of suppliers' credit on imports of plant and machinery. Export duties are levied on staple cotton, cotton yarn, oil cakes, molasses, semitanned hides and skins, buffalos and buffalo calves, sheep and goats, crushed bones, private sector exports of Basmati rice, and onyx blocks. The export of cows and calves is banned. Exporters who are members of export 7The exceptions are raw cotton; cotton yarn; fish other than frozen and preserved; mutton and beef; petroleum products; crude vegetable material; wool and animal hair; crude animal material; feedstuff for animals; all grains including grain flour; stone, sand, and gravel; waste and scrap of all kinds; fertilizer crude; oilseeds, nuts, and kernels; jewelry exported under the Entrustment Scheme; live animals; hides and skins; wet-blue leather; inorganic elements, oxides, etc; crude minerals; works of art and antiques; all metals; fur skins; and wood in rough or squared form. 8Under specified conditions authorized dealers may grant con- cessional finance without state bank approval and without an irrevocable letter of credit or firm export order. houses may retain up to 5 percent of their foreign exchange earnings for export promotion and related costs. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange de- rived from invisibles must be surrendered within three months. Travelers may bring in PRs 100 in Pakistan currency notes a person and PRs 5 in coin. There is no limitation on the import of other cur- rency notes and coin. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are sub- ject to approval. In order to encourage industrial development in Pakistan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who, with the approval of the Government, may start any industry in the private sector without conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is expected, however, that local rupee expenditures will ordinarily be met from local eq- uity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established after September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restric- tion to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits reinvested in approved industrial projects with the sanction of the Government may be treated as in- vestment for the purpose of subsequent repatria- tion. (3) Appreciation of any capital investment un- der (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These re- patriation facilities do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange, unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment pro- ject, or to capital invested in Pakistan before Sep- tember 1, 1954. Guarantees provide for just and fair compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the investment in the event of nationaliza- tion of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may regis- ter their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan; the principal in such transactions can be repatriated at any time, but the prize funds are treated as savings for the pur- pose of exchange control regulations on outward transfers. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of for- eign securities by Pakistani residents requires ap- proval by the State Bank. Detailed rules govern the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 364 PAKISTAN transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals tem- porarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresi- dents for purposes of transfer of securities. General permission has been given in connection with the issue, sale, or transfer of Pakistani securities, in favor of nonresident Pakistanis, provided that the securities are registered at the address in Pakistan of the purchaser and investment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of capital and return. Pakistani securities held by nonresident foreign nationals may be transferred to other nonresident foreign nationals against payments abroad, subject to the same terms and conditions as those applicable to the transferor. General permission has also been granted to foreign nationals temporarily resident in Pakistan to make investments in units of the Na- tional Investment Trust, subject to certain stipula- tions. General permission has been granted to pub- lic limited companies whose shares are quoted on stock exchanges in Pakistan to transfer shares to nonresident Pakistanis, provided: (1) payment is made by remittance of foreign currency from abroad; (2) the shares are registered at the address in Pakistan of the buyer; and (3) the buyer gives an undertaking that he will not apply for remittance of dividend or sale proceeds of the share. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Pro- ceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresident capital assets that are not covered by repatriation arrangements must be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances in blocked accounts may be invested in approved gov- ernment securities payable in Pakistan rupees or placed as time deposits with banks. Foreign banks functioning in Pakistan can under- write share issues of companies incorporated in Pakistan in association with the Investment Corpo- ration of Pakistan, subject to the stipulation that the total value of shares so underwritten by them in each issue does not exceed 10 percent of the capital offered to the general public for subscription. The foreign banks may also underwrite public issues of participation term certificates, term finance certifi- cates, and "modaraba" certificates, provided that where terms and conditions of their issue grant the option to the holders to convert the securities into ordinary shares, the restriction of 10 percent of the total capital offered to the general public would also apply. Pakistani nationals resident abroad have permis- sion to invest in new public share offers in Pakistan by remittance of foreign exchange or by debiting their foreign currency accounts in Pakistan; divi- dends or interest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, maybe transferred abroad, provided that these securities were held for no less than one year. Pakistani nationals require the prior approval of the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and the liquidation proceeds must be re- patriated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. Gold The export and import of gold are prohibited un- less authorized by the State Bank. Such permission is normally not granted. However, under a special scheme, jewelry manufacturers are allowed to im- port gold for the purpose of manufacturing jewelry for export. Banks incorporated in Pakistan are not permitted to engage in purchases or sales of bullion, whether inside or outside Pakistan. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement The exchange rate of the Pakistan rupee against the U.S. dollar was adjusted frequently throughout the year. On December 30, 1988, the spot and for- ward rates at which the State Bank transacted with authorized dealers were as follows: Buying Spot and forward up to 6 months 18.6500 Forward up to 12 months 18.0905 (In Pakistan rupees) Selling Forward up to 6 months 19.0231 Forward up to 12 months 19.3028 Spot 18.7433 The annual fees charged by the State Bank of Pakistan for the absorption of the exchange risk on private sector suppliers' credits, guaranteed loans, and PAYE loans were adjusted from time to time. On December 30, 1988, the annual fees were as follows: deutsche mark, 6.32 percent; Japanese yen, 6.8 percent; pounds sterling, 3 percent; Swiss francs, 7.75 percent; and U.S. dollars, 3 percent. Prescription of Currency January 6. The validity of the Pakistan-Bulgaria Barter Agreement (Barter No. 16) was extended up to June 30, 1988 for opening letters of credit and September 30, 1988 for completing shipments. January 16. The validity of the Pakistan-People's Republic of China Trade Protocol (Barter No. 13) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 365 was extended up to March 31, 1988 for opening letters of credit and June 30, 1988 for completing shipments. January 25. The validity of the Pakistan-Poland Trade Protocol (Barter No. 15) was extended up to June 30, 1988 for opening letters of credit and up to September 30, 1988 for completing shipments. February 21. The Pakistan-U.S.S.R. Trade Protocol (Barter No. 23), to be valid up to December 31,1988, entered into effec t. April 6. The validity of the Pakistan-People's Re- public of China Trade Protocol (Barter No. 13) was extended up to June 30, 1988 for opening letters of credit and September 30, 1988 for completing shipments. April 6. The validity of the Pakistan-Czecho- slovakia Barter Agreement (Barter No. 22) was ex- tended up to December 31, 1988 for opening letters of credit and March 31, 1989 for completing shipments. April 26. The validity of the TCP/Sukab Com- modity Exchange Agreement (No. 4, Program 1987) was extended up to June 30,1988 for opening letters of credit and up to December 31, 1988 for complet- ing shipments. May 30. The validity of the Pakistan-Bulgaria Bar- ter Agreement (Barter No. 16) was extended up to December 31, 1988 for opening letters of credit and March 31, 1989 for completing shipments. June 16. The validity of the Pakistan-People's Re- public of China Barter Agreement (Barter No. 13) was extended up to September 30,1988 for opening letters of credit and up to December 31, 1988 for completing shipments. July 17. The validity of the Pakistan-Poland Barter Agreement (Barter No. 15) was extended up to De- cember 31, 1988 for opening letters of credit and March 31, 1989 for completing shipments. July 20. The validity of the TCP/Sukab Com- modity Exchange Arrangement (No. 4, 1987 Pro- gram) was extended up to December 31, 1988 for opening letters of credit and up to March 31, 1989 for completing shipments. October 20. The governments of Pakistan and Bul- garia entered into an agreement to exchange goods (Barter No. 17), to remain valid until October 19, 1989. The agreement provides for trade in a spec- ified list of commodities. The prices of transactions under the agreement will be at world market levels, and the quality and specification will be in accor- dance with recognized standards. Settlement will be effected through nonconvertible U.S. dollar- denominated accounts to be maintained by the re- spective central banks. October 23. Authorized dealers were permitted to allow payment of commissions to foreign importers/ overseas agents up to a fixed proportion of the c . i .f. value of Pakistan's exports. The ceilings for dif- ferent categories of imports were set at the following rates: books, journals, and magazines, up to 33V3 percent; engineering goods, up to 10 percent; sports goods, surgical instruments, cutlery, leather goods, ready-made garments and other textile made-ups, and carpets and plastic manufactures, up to 7 percent; cotton and rice, up to 5 percent; and all other goods (except cement), up to 5 percent. November 2. The validity of the Pakistan-People's Republic of China Trade Protocol (Barter No. 13) was extended up to December 31, 1988 for opening letters of credit and up to March 31, 1989 for com- pleting shipments. November 10. The validity of the Pakistan- Czechoslovakia Barter Agreement (Barter No. 22) was extended up to June 30,1989 for opening letters of credit and up to September 30, 1989 for complet- ing shipments. December 5. The validity of the TCP/Sukab Com- modity Agreement (Barter No. 4, 1988/89 Program) was extended up to December 31, 1989 for opening letters of credit and up to September 30, 1989 for completing shipments. December 5. The validity of the Pakistan-Bulgaria Trade Protocol (Barter No. 16) was extended up to June 30, 1989 for opening letters of credit and up to September 30, 1989 for completing shipments. December 21. The validity of the Pakistan-Poland Trade Protocol (Barter No. 15) was extended up to December 31, 1989 for opening letters of credit and March 31, 1990 for completing shipments. Imports and Import Payments March 8. The limit on imports of gold by Pakistani nationals was raised from PRs 25,000 to PRs 100,000. The limit will apply only to trade under the special scheme for jewelry manufactured for export. July 1. The Import Policy Order (IPO) for 1988/89 was announced with a number of significant changes. All items subject to quantitative restric- tions and all items on the negative list were classi- fied in accordance with a harmonized commodity description and coding system instead of the SITC. The restricted lists on the 1987/88 IPO were merged into a single list. In total 51 items were removed from the restricted lists and liberalized. In addition, the list of items importable only by specific indus- tries was abolished, and all of the items were liber- alized. The number of banned items on the negative list was shortened substantially. In comparison with the 1987/88 IPO, 162 items were liberalized, includ- ing fruits, manufactured wood products, various ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 366 PAKISTAN building materials, radio broadcast receivers, and video recorders. October 29. Imports of cloth ribbon for typewriters were liberalized. November 28. Imports of computer software were liberalized, while imports of medicine containing benzidine were banned. December 3. Imports of ball bearings were liberalized. Payments for Invisibles January 2. Detailed regulations were issued for processing ha jj applications by Pakistani pilgrims under the sponsorship scheme for the ha j j. The regulations specified, inter alia, that travel costs must be funded through specific remittances from sponsors abroad. This scheme is in addition to that providing travel costs from domestic sources for a limited number of pilgrims. April 6. Authorized dealers were permitted to issue foreign currency traveler's checks, without limit, to foreign nationals and Pakistani nationals who are not ordinarily residents in Pakistan, and to provide foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of US$100 a person against surrender of the equiv- alent amount in foreign exchange, against credit cards, or by debit to a foreign currency account on production of a ticket for travel outside Pakistan. April 21. Foreign exchange allowances for studies in the United Kingdom were denominated in pounds sterling. The maintenance and basic al- lowances were set at £5,332 a year, with a 5 percent increase for maintenance expenses in subsequent years; the maximum for actual tuition fees was set at £6,178 a year, and the onetime allowance was set at £812. May 4. Authorized dealers were permitted to is- sue credit cards for meeting business travel ex- penses in countries other than Afghanistan and India. May 14. Airlines and travel agents were pro- hibited from issuing tickets for travel, for purposes other than those on an exempted list, during the period of the ha j j. May 23. Authorized dealers were prohibited from issuing foreign exchange for purposes other than those mentioned in the exemption list during the ha jj season. Private travel exchange quotas were allowed by the Ministry of Religious Affairs and Minorities Affairs. July 21. The foreign exchange allocation for pri- vate travel to Bangladesh was increased to US$100 a visit for adults and to US$50 a visit for children up to 12 years of age. August 3T. Bona fide exporters were allowed to use FEBCs to settle credit card charges incurred up to a limit of US$100 a day, subject to a maximum of US$3,000 for a 30-day visit, in addition to the normal allowance (which was increased to US$200 a day, subject to a maximum of US$6,000, for a 30-day visit). October 18. The import from India of 249 items was allowed in the private sector. Consequently, the recommendations of the Trade Corporation of Pakistan for business travel to India were no longer required. November 23. The rules governing the release of foreign exchange to business travelers by autho- rized dealers were streamlined. December 5. Detailed regulations were issued for processing applications by Pakistani pilgrims under the sponsorship scheme for the ha j j. The regula- tions specified, inter alia, that travel costs have to be funded through specific remittances from sponsors abroad. This scheme is in addition to that providing travel costs from domestic sources for a limited number of pilgrims. Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. The Export Policy Order (EPO) for 1988/89 liberalized the private sector exportation of Basmati rice. This rice may now be exported in bags up to 20 kilograms, subject to minimum export prices. In addition, there were minor changes in the rules governing the private sector exportation of raw cot- ton. Other changes included the abolition of the minimum export price for carpets and the liberaliza- tion of the exports of cotton yarn. Exporters who are members of registered export houses are permitted to retain up to 5 percent of the f .o.b. value of exports in foreign exchange to maintain seven offices abroad and to meet expenses relating to publicity, product development, and other export-promotion activities. July 5. The limit on the exportation of bona fide trade samples was increased to PRs 5,000. Leather garment manufacturers were entitled to export 30 samples in a calendar year irrespective of the mone- tary ceiling. November 23. The rules governing the release of foreign exchange to businessmen holding blanket permission issued by the State Bank of Pakistan and bona fide exporters holding credit cards were streamlined. December 4. Private sector exporters of cotton were required to place a security deposit of 2 percent of the f.o.b. value with the State Bank of Pakistan at the time of registration of export contracts relating to cotton. In cases where the contracts do not material- ize, the security deposit will be forfeited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Panama is the Panamanian Bal- boa, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar at B 1 = US$1. The U.S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama; locally issued currency is repre- sented by balboa coins and several commemorative coins. Commercial banks quote buying and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. On November 26,1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Office, a semiautonomous institu- tion of the Panamanian Government. The Price Reg- ulation Office is responsible for the implementation of restrictions on imports of commodities that com- pete with national production and on certain ex- ports. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry de- termines the import quotas for commodities listed in trade agreements; the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development, jointly with the Price Regulation Office, determines the import quotas for certain agricultural commodities. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Imports and Import Payments Import quotas are maintained on some 20 prod- ucts, including oil, timber, salt, fishmeal, milk, and sugar. Some of these are not licensed. Import licens- ing applies to some products subject to quotas and to imports of various foods tu f fs. Imports by the public sector are subject to special requirements. Payments abroad may be made freely. In addition to import duty, a tax of 7.5 percent of the f .o.b. value is levied on private sector imports of all dutiable goods other than specified phar- maceutical products and foods tuffs, for which the rate is 2.5 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively; books are exempt. Most imports are also subject to a tax of 5 percent calculated on the sum of the c.i.f. value and all other import taxes and charges; among the exemptions are fuels, lubricants, and related products, as well as foods tuffs, specified medicinal and pharmaceutical products, and imports into the Free Zone. Exports and Export Proceeds Export taxes are levied on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, and other minerals, sugar, bananas, coconuts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of certain foodstuffs, firearms, and ammunition are pro- hibited. Certain nontraditional exports are eligible for tax credit certificates. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. A travel tax of 4 percent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on such tickets purchased for travelers starting their trip in Panama. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. A significant number of foreign- controlled banks are authorized to conduct business only with nonresidents. A banking holiday was de- clared on March 4,1988, and restrictions were main- tained on demand and savings deposits withdraw- als and on interbank deposit balances after the reopening of banks on May 9, 1988. Although pro- gressively eased, restrictions on savings deposits and interbank balances were in effect at end-1988. (The restrictions on demand deposits were elimi- nated on January 1, 1989.) Gold Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins with face values of B 100 and B 500, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely hold gold in any form, at home or abroad, and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents, at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 368 PANAMA carried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by residents other than the mone- tary authorities; import licenses are issued freely by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and export licenses are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1 percent ad valorem, and exports of gold coin (other than U.S. coins, which are exempt) are subject to a duty of 0.5 percent. Changes During 1988 Capital March 4. A bank holiday was declared. March 22. All general license banks with signifi- cant offshore operations were permitted to request an additional international license to continue their offshore operations during the bank holiday. March 22. Checks and money orders drawn against demand deposits (at general license banks) payable to the National Treasury were permitted to be cashed without restrictions. April 18. All general license banks were allowed to reopen but only to receive deposits. May 9. All general license banks were allowed to resume all normal banking activities, with the fol- lowing restrictions: (1) demand deposit withdrawals were permitted up to 25 percent of the balance as of March 3, 1988, with a maximum of B 10,000; (2) withdrawals from savings deposits (excluding Christmas savings plans) were limited to a max- imum of B 50 a month; and (3) time deposits were frozen. Restricted deposit balances were, however, allowed to be used to discharge obligations to the bank holding the deposit. July 7. Demand deposits were permitted to be withdrawn up to 40 percent of the balance as of March 3, 1988, with a maximum of B 20,000. July 18. Demand deposits were permitted to be withdrawn up to 50 percent of the balance as of March 3, 1988, with a maximum of B 50,000. August 18. The restrictions on 50 percent of inter- bank deposit balances (which had been frozen since March 4, 1988) were removed. (January 1, 1989. All restrictions on demand- deposit withdrawals were abolished.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Guinea Kina. The exchange rate of the kina in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is adjusted daily on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of currencies representing Papua New Guinea's major trading partners. On Decem- ber 30, 1988, the official buying and selling rates quoted by the Bank of Papua New Guinea for the U.S. dollar were US$1.2110 and US$1.2090, respec- tively, per K 1. The commercial banks, the only authorized foreign exchange dealers, publish rates for all current transactions with their customers, within a maximum spread of 2 percent between buying and selling. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Papua New Guinea formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 4, 1975. Administration of Control Foreign exchange control is administered by the Bank of Papua New Guinea under the Central Bank- ing (Foreign Exchange and Gold) Regulations, Chapter 138. Overall policy is determined by the Government with the advice of the Bank of Papua New Guinea and the Ministry of Finance. The Bank of Papua New Guinea has delegated considerable powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Guinea, which have been appointed autho- rized dealers in foreign exchange and gold. Export licensing is administered by the Department of For- eign Affairs and Trade. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments, which are expressed in a foreign currency, to persons resident outside Papua New Guinea must be met by payments in foreign currency.1 Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in kina from an overseas bank's account in Papua New Guinea. Nonresident Accounts The Bank of Papua New Guinea controls all credits to nonresident bank accounts; funds cred- 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the kina. ited to such accounts may be withdrawn without further formality. Only in exceptional circum- stances is approval given for a nonresident bank account to be denominated in a foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a limited number of goods are re- stricted for health, security, and protective reasons. Imports of a number of items, including canned meat, eggs (into the mainland only), sugar, pork, chicken, and certain fresh fruits and vegetables are prohibited. Certain items, including laundry bar soap, poultry other than chicken, plywood, and specified fruits and vegetables, are subject to quotas for reasons of domestic protection; quotas are ad- justed quarterly, reflecting the extent to which local production can meet domestic demand. Quotas are typically imposed for three-year periods, and quota allocations are made on a pro rata basis with pur- chases of domestically produced goods. There are no import licensing requirements. Au- thorized dealers have the authority to approve most transactions without referring to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The tariff regime consists of the fol- lowing: (1) duty free for main essential items, in- cluding food staples (rice, tinned meat, and fish) and medical supplies; (2) 7.5 percent for basic goods, including some consumer goods and raw materials; (3) 25 percent for intermediate goods, including goods with satisfactory domestic sub- stitutes; and (4) 50 percent for luxury goods, includ- ing television sets, jewelry, cosmetics, cameras, video recorders, and nonessential food and bev- erage items. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for most payments for invisibles, provided that supporting documentation can be produced. The remittance overseas of life insurance premiums on new policies written after December 31,1975 in the names of permanent resi- dents is not permitted. Applications for foreign ex- change for tourist travel in excess of the equivalent of K 8,000 an adult and K 3,000 a minor a year and K 4,000 for each business travel are referred to the Bank of Papua New Guinea for consideration. Trav- elers may not take or send out of Papua New Guinea domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in coin; however, domestic coins issued for 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 370 PAPUA NEW GUINEA numismatic purposes may be taken out freely. Overseas visitors are free to take out any currency that they brought in and declared on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents of Papua New Guinea may export goods without exchange control formality on condi- tion that they comply with the terms of the general authority issued by the Bank of Papua New Guinea. The essential conditions of this authority are that payment for goods exported is received within six months of the date of export and that the proceeds are sold to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. When exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the general authority, they must apply to the Bank for a specific authority. No authority is needed for certain categories of goods, including sundry items such as passengers' personal effects. Export licenses are required for all types of goods under the Exports (Control and Valu- ation) Act. Special provisions are in force for the export of prescribed goods (logs, pearls, tuna fish, and wood chips). Specified commodities are subject to export levies. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required only for the disposal of for- eign currency proceeds other than by sale to an authorized dealer in Papua New Guinea. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Outward transfers of overseas-owned capital are normally allowed; advance commitments, however, are given only in exceptional circumstances. New investment outside Papua New Guinea by perma- nent residents and by companies and other organi- zations operating in Papua New Guinea is subject to certain limitations. When an investment is for port- folio reasons, the amount that may be invested in a 12-month period is limited to K 20,000 a person. Investment may only be in the form of marketable company securities and real estate. The approval of the Bank of Papua New Guinea is needed for the acquisition and disposal of foreign securities by per- manent residents.2 Persons who have been declared to be temporary residents by an authorized dealer or the Bank of Papua New Guinea may repatriate 2Foreign securities are defined in the Central Banking Act as including deposits in overseas bank accounts and debts due by persons outside Papua New Guinea. their surplus earnings without limit. Prior clearance from the tax authorities may be required for these transactions. Approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is required for all new or increased foreign investment in Papua New Guinea. In some cases the Bank of Papua New Guinea refers such applications to the Ministry of Finance. Foreign investments other than those in banking and insurance are also sub- ject to approval by the National Investment and Development Authority. Approval from the Bank of Papua New Guinea is also necessary for the ac- knowledgment of indebtedness, so that the right to receive a payment may be conferred on a nonresi- dent. The requirement that offshore borrowing by private sector entities in Papua New Guinea may not exceed the debt/equity ratio of 3:1 has been abolished. Commercial banks may undertake off- shore borrowing for on-lending to exporters, pro- vided that assumption of exchange risk is not in- volved. A minimum moratorium period of one year is required for repayments on foreign debt following loan disbursement. Gold Under the Central Banking (Foreign Exchange and Gold) Regulations, Chapter 138, approval by the Bank of Papua New Guinea is necessary for the sale, purchase, export, and import of gold. On Jan- uary 1, 1987, royalties and withholding tax payable on sales of alluvial gold were removed and replaced with a 5 percent ad valorem export tax, and dealings in this type of gold were freely permitted. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments January 5. The requirement that import payments must be completed within 30 days of shipment was abolished. Payments for Invisibles January 5. Foreign exchange allowances for Papua New Guinea residents traveling abroad for business and tourism purposes were doubled. Capital January 1. The amount permanent residents can invest abroad was raised by 50 percent to K 20,000 a person for a 12-month period. The moratorium period for repayments on foreign debt was reduced from 2 years to 1 year, and the 3:1 debt/equity ra- tio requirement on inward foreign investment was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan Guarani. The exchange arrangement consists of three different exchange rates, two of which are fixed by the Central Bank of Paraguay, and the third fluctuates freely and is used by commercial banks and exchange houses.1 The rates fixed by the Cen- tral Bank (in terms of U.S. dollars) are the following: G400 per US$1 for imports of major public enter- prises, public sector external public service pay- ments on debt service transactions, imports of pe- troleum products, and goods and nonfactor service payments by public enterprises; and G550 per US$1 for disbursements of new official borrowing, sur- render of export proceeds at the minimum prices set by the Central Bank, and imports of agricultural products. All other transactions (i.e., export pro- ceeds in excess of the minimum price, certain bina- tional transactions, and most non-oil import pay- ments, profit remittances, and private service payments) are channeled through the free exchange market. On December 30, 1988, the average rate prevailing in this market was around Gl,024 per US$1. A tax of 1.5 percent is levied on purchases and sales of foreign exchange in the official market, ex- cept for transactions with foreign embassies and diplomats, meat packing plants, and those relating to investments in Paraguay under the terms of In- vestment Law No. 550/75. A tax of 2 percent is levied on sales of foreign exchange for imports. In addi- tion, banks charge a commission of 2 percent on all sales of foreign exchange and receive a commission of 1 percent on all sales of foreign exchange to the Central Bank. The Central Bank in turn charges a commission of 1 percent on all sales of foreign ex- change to the commercial banks that are authorized to operate in the exchange market. Additional sell- ing rates result from the application of a 10 percent tax on outward remittances of profits and dividends and a 30 percent tax on outward remittances of interest, royalties, rent, honoraria, commissions, and other income accruing to nonresidents from Paraguayan sources. For interest payments on for- eign loans contracted by national banks, the tax is Affective February 28, 1989, the exchange rate system was unified, and a flexible exchange rate system under which the exchange rate is determined by market forces was adopted. The Central Bank intervenes in the exchange market, when neces- sary, to smooth out excessive fluctuations in exchange rates. applied only to the spread if floating-rate loans are involved and to 6.5 percent of interest on fixed-rate loans.2 The authorized commercial banks are required to transfer all of their daily gross foreign exchange receipts at the four controlled exchange rates to the Central Bank, and are required to report their daily transactions to the Central Bank. There are no ar- rangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk. Administration of Control The Central Bank determines foreign exchange policy and supervises, together with the Superin- tendency of Banks, the foreign exchange transac- tions carried out by the banks and the exchange houses. Arrears are maintained with respect to ex- ternal payments. Prescription of Currency Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained with the Central Bank of Para- guay and the other central banks concerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Clearing takes place every four months, but Para- guay, as a relatively less developed country, may request special settlement every two months. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities require authori- zation. These include: table wine in bulk, natural grape must concentrate, rice in the husk or with any degree of processing, gasoline, diesel oil, gas oil, kerosene, wire, nails, dry cell batteries, and po- tatoes, garlic, and onions during local harvest sea- sons. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products may only be made through the national petroleum company, PETROPAR. All importers are required to be registered at the Central Bank. Commercial banks are instructed not to establish letters of credit for importers unless these importers already have, 2Effective February 28, 1989, the official foreign exchange as- sessment (aforos cambiarios) was abolished. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 372 PARAGUAY from their own resources, the foreign exchange nec- essary to settle these external obligations. Taxes ranging from 5 percent to 70 percent are levied on most imports depending on the customs specifications, which are based on the Brussels No- menclature. Taxes are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the principal import items exempt from surcharges: imports for religious, charitable, cultural, or educational purposes; im- ports for the Government; furniture acquired through inheritance; all imports exempted accord- ing to international treaties; and the accompanied baggage of international passengers or nationals re- turning to establish residence in Paraguay. Also ex- empted are agricultural and industrial machinery and equipment imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay; agricultural machinery and equipment for the National Wheat Program; books and periodicals; and imports under Investment Law No. 550/75. Imports of investment goods and of new material for export industries are eligible for exemp- tion on a case-by-case basis. Commodities originat- ing from neighboring countries are subject to a lower 10 percent surcharge on the c . i . f. value; this applies to foodstuffs, textiles, footwear, and other manufactured consumer goods. Alcohol-powered automobiles, tractors, and motorcycles are subject to only 60 percent of the surcharge established for vehicles with equivalent specifications using other fuels. The 1985 tariff law temporarily prohibited a wide range of imports that would compete directly with Paraguayan products. Imports of a number of com- modities that might jeopardize national security, public order, or public health are also prohibited. The Ministry of Finance is entitled to lift import restrictions on basic foodstuffs, seeds, and cement when domestic production shortfalls are such that domestic demand cannot be met through internal supply. Imports of specified goods (including tele- vision sets and precious metals) may not be fi- nanced with foreign credit. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval from the Central Bank; such approval is normally granted only for imports of machinery and other capital goods. Import payments must be made through banks at the official rates of exchange or at the rate prevailing in the parallel market. For certain commodities orig- inating in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and Uruguay, and falling under the regional trade regime, import payments need not be channeled through banks; as long as proof of payment of the preferential tariff rates for these imports can be presented, payments may be effected with the importer's own foreign exchange. Import invoices are subject to preship- ment inspection by international agencies. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are settled at the free market rate, with the exception of central gov- ernment transactions and some transactions of the binational entities (which are settled at either G550 per US$1 for central government service payments, or G320 per US$1 for government debt service trans- actions, and G550 per US$1 for some transactions of the binational entities). Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. There is an ad valorem sales tax of 5 percent on international airline tickets. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and rough beams and some other unprocessed forest products are prohibited, as are exports of rawhides, horses, wild animals, sheep, goats, pigs, and rabbits. At present, beef exports are not subject to annual export quotas. Certain other exports require prior authorization in order to en- sure adequate supplies for domestic consumption and to meet the needs of domestic industries. All other exports are free from licensing requirements, but some require a certificate issued by the National Institute of Technology and Standardization of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, and others require a certificate issued by the Ministry of Agri- culture and Livestock. All exporters are required to be registered at the Central Bank. The proceeds of exports must be col- lected within 120 days after completion of the bank- ing formalities related to the shipping documents; the foreign exchange proceeds must be converted and surrendered at banks authorized to engage in foreign exchange transactions at the exchange rate for the respective commodity. For all products, the Central Bank establishes minimum export prices (aforos) denominated in U.S. dollars. Exporters of these commodities are required to surrender, in the official exchange market, all the foreign exchange proceeds from their exports, which may not be less than the amount corresponding to the minimum price set by the Central Bank.3 Advance receipts of 3Effective February 28, 1989, the system of minimum export surrender prices (aforos) was replaced by temporary export levies of 1 percent for cotton and between 1 and 10 percent for other products, and exporters are allowed to sell their export proceeds to the commercial banks instead of surrendering them to the Central Bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY 373 export proceeds must also be sold to authorized banks. All exports are exempted from taxes or charges. Export invoices are subject to preshipment inspection by international agencies. Proceeds from Invisibles Except for foreign exchange inflows f rom the bi- national entities (which have to be transferred in full to the Central Bank), there are no surrender re- quirements for proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be chan- neled through the authorized banks or exchange houses. As a provisional measure the Central Bank limits annual sales of foreign exchange for the amor- tization of private sector debt to no more than 10 percent of the originally registered external lia- bility. Repatriation of earnings of enterprises and commercial banks is allowed through the free ex- change market. Under Investment Law No. 550/75, the Government can grant special tax, customs, and import surcharge concessions to proposed invest- ments, provided that these are duly registered and approved. Capital imported and registered under this law may be retransferred in the currency orig- inally imported in installments of up to 20 percent from the third year af ter the beginning of production. Gold Under Decree Law No. 18/52, the Central Bank may prescribe the maximum amount of gold (and foreign exchange) that may be held by residents; this requirement does not apply to amounts held by the Central Bank or by institutions authorized to deal in foreign currencies. In practice, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may freely deal in gold coins, gold bars, and gold leaf with residents and nonresidents. Exports and imports of gold by nonbank residents and industrial users in any form other than jewelry require the prior approval of the Central Bank; payments for gold imports by industrial users must be made through authorized banks at the free market rate. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement July 5. The number of official exchange rates was reduced from four to two, as the previous exchange rates for imports of certain public enterprises (G240 per U.S. dollar) and service payments on external public debt (G320 per U.S. dollar) were adjusted to G400 per US$1. Imports and Import Payments December 31. Effective January 1, 1988, the ex- change rate used for the computation of import duties and levies was adjusted from G320 to G400 per US$1. February 9. Decree No. 26,873 created the National Commission for Fiscalization and Control of Inter- national Trade Operations, under the coordination of the Customs Agency. Exports and Export Proceeds February 8. Merchandise in transit became subject to registration at the Central Bank, and in the case of coffee, a tax of US$15 a bag was introduced. March 7. The aforo price for cotton was reduced from US$950 to US$600 a ton. March 9. A system of one-stop export approval (ventanilla unica) was established with a view to simplifying export procedures (Decree No. 27,329). April 5. The Central Bank specified the documen- tation required for the one-stop export approval sys- tem (ventanilla unica). April 28. Decree No. 28,075 modified Articles 122 and 124 of Decree No. 15,813, dated June 4, 1986, concerning the Temporary Admission Regime, and specified that the Customs Agency and the Minis- try of Industry and Commerce would henceforth be charged with supervising the Temporary Admis- sion Regime, with a view to curbing illegal transactions. July 26. The aforo price for beef was reduced from 22 percent to 10 percent of the actual (i.e., world) price. November 17. The aforo price for a variety of non- traditional export products (representing about 9 percent of total exports) was reduced to 10 percent of the actual (i.e., world) price. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Peru is the Peruvian Inti. The exchange rate system consists of the following rates: (1) the controlled exchange rate (MUC); (2) the free market exchange rate for foreign bank notes (deter- mined in the banking system); (3) the rate at which foreign exchange retained by exporters (30 percent) is transacted for import purposes (determined through negotiations between registered export- ers)1; and (4) the parallel market rate. Two other exchange rates result from the imposition of a 3 per- cent tax on exports of fish products and a 10 percent tax on other export earnings.2 In the MUC market, the exchange rate for the inti is pegged to the U.S. dollar and determined by the Central Reserve Bank. On December 29,1988, the MUC rate was I/. 500 = US$1, the average buying/selling rate in the free exchange market was I/. 1,750 = US$1, and the average buying/selling rate in the parallel market was!/. 1,640 = US$1. Exchange transactions may be conducted in 14 currencies other than the U.S. dol- lar,3 on the basis of their exchange rates in terms of the U.S. dollar in the international market. Exchange transactions taking place at the MUC and the free exchange market rates are as follows. The MUC rate is applied to (1) the payment credits from the Fund for Nontraditional Exports (PENT); (2) the sale of foreign exchange to students abroad for installation and travel expenses; (3) the sale of foreign exchange to travel abroad for medical treat- ment; (4) imports of foodstuffs, medicines, and raw materials; and (5) all transactions effected by the petroleum companies. The free market exchange rate is applied to (1) service payments other than debt service; (2) imports of most capital goods; (3) the sale of refined silver (in ingots) and re- purchases of silver certificates; (4) imports of books and automobiles; (5) remittances of profits by branches of international transportation enter- prises; (6) inward private capital flows (up to De- cember 31, 1990); (7) receipts of foreign exchange 1 Since December 31, 1988, importers have also been autho- rized to participate in this market. 2On January 6, 1989, the rate of this tax was unified at 6 per- cent. 3Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs for external trade transactions; for nontrade transactions, operations may also be effected in Austrian schil- lings, Canadian dollars, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kroner, and Venezuelan bolivares. from reimbursements for prepaid freight charges on exports; (8) income from insurance claims; (9) receipts from liquidation of foreign exchange insurance certificates issued before December 31, 1988; (10) capital contributions to legal entities; (11) receipts of foreign exchange from external transfer except those derived from exports or their prefinancing; and (12) foreign exchange received by parastatals and private agencies in social welfare and cultural fields from International Technical Co- operation Institutions. Interest on foreign exchange received by financial institutions on their required reserves must also be sold to the Central Reserve Bank at the free exchange rate. All exchange transactions other than those effected through the parallel market must be con- ducted through the banking system. An exchange tax of 1 percent is levied on foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports of goods and services, and on purchases of foreign exchange for imports of goods and services. Commercial banks may charge a com- mission of 0.25 percent on transactions. Enterprises are not allowed to hold abroad their foreign exchange balances with limited exceptions and must sell foreign exchange to the banking sys- tem within ten working days of receipt. Export and loan proceeds, including loans for the prefinancing of exports, must be surrendered to the Central Re- serve Bank. Exporters of nontraditional products availing themselves of subsidized PENT credits are eligible for 180-day nontransferable exchange certificates (PENT certificates) against the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds of preshipment and postship- ment credits received from abroad, provided that such foreign credits do not exceed 72 percent of the contemplated export value. Extensions of up to 360 additional days in the validity period of the certifi- cates are permitted. PENT certificates remain in the custody of the Central Reserve Bank and bear inter- est at LIBOR, plus 5 percentage points for the dura- tion of the foreign export financing; they are applied directly by the Central Reserve Bank for the can- cellation of part of the PENT credit to the exporter. Upon surrender of export proceeds, the Central Reserve Bank issues a second set of exchange certifi- cates for the direct cancellation of the PENT credit not covered by PENT certificates. The holding of bank accounts in foreign curren- cies in the Peruvian financial system is allowed, but 374 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 375 the financial system may not extend credit based on these accounts. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Peru formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export licenses are issued by the Institute for Foreign Trade. Prior import licenses are issued by the Institute for Foreign Trade, subject to approval by the Central Bank. Foreign exchange licenses are issued by the Central Reserve Bank. In addition, prior Central Reserve Bank approval is required for payments for nonfactor services. The Import Super- vision Commission is the ultimate administrative authority on applications for prior import licenses denied at a lower level and rules on the exclusion of importers from the National Register of Importers. It also exercises general surveillance over the flow of imports and their effects on domestic production and is empowered to make recommendations to the Import Valuation Commission. The latter Commis- sion exercises surveillance over customs valuation and has the authority to purchase and auction off, or to impose special duties on, those imports deemed to be undervalued or dumped. Exchange houses are authorized to purchase foreign exchange and traveler's checks from resi- dents and nonresidents and sell foreign exchange for tourism abroad and for repurchases by nonresidents. Borrowing abroad by the public sector, as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector with a gov- ernment guarantee, is subject to prior approval by Supreme Decree, on the recommendation of the Committee of the External Debt and the National Planning Institute. Public enterprises are required to register their short-term indebtedness with the General Directorate of Public Credit (GDPC) and to obtain GDPCs approval for renewal, rollover, or consolidation of such debt. Moreover, with effect from January 1983, the enterprises must submit their annual short-term borrowing programs to GDPC for approval. The National Commission on Investment and Foreign Technology (CONITE) su- pervises foreign direct investment in Peru and the use of foreign trademarks, patents, and licenses, as well as the related royalty payments. Most pay- ments for invisibles require the approval of CONITE. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency All exchange market operations must be effected in one of the 14 prescribed convertible currencies, but exchange certificates may be issued by the Cen- tral Reserve Bank only in U.S. dollars. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAI A). Imports and Import Payments Import prohibitions apply to 539 commodities out of the approximately 6,263 eight-digit items of the Peruvian customs nomenclature (NAB^NDINA). These commodities include agricultural products, footwear, textiles, and security-related materials. All imports, except those that do not exceed an annual value of US$2,000, require import licenses. Import licenses are required for imports from countries of the Andean Pact only for statistical pur- poses, and the listing of the importer in the National Register of Importers is also required. Imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for the pro- duction of nontraditional exports are exempted from import duties, and a specific import license is not required, provided that the appropriate ministry determines that such imports qualify under the Temporary Admission Regime. Certain industrial raw materials and fertilizers, as well as certain agricultural commodities, such as milk powder, may be imported only by the National Enterprise for Input Marketing (ENCI); and crude petroleum and petroleum derivatives, only by PETROPERU, a state-owned enterprise. Imports of capital goods must be covered by irre- vocable documentary credits, and the intermediat- ing bank must guarantee refunding of the foreign currency if the import is not effected by the time the relevant documentary credit expires. A "prior pay- ments authorization" from the Central Reserve Bank for payments for licensed imports through the banking system has been suspended since De.cem- ber 31, 1988. Advance payments are permitted ex- cept for capital goods imported by firms with an annual turnover in excess of I/. 10 billion and in respect of imports financed with external funds. With specified exemptions, imported goods are subject to a uniform value-added tax of 15 percent of the c . i . f. value of imports (in addition to the import duty); exemptions from the value-added tax include ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 376 PERU agricultural products, certain minerals and fuels, medicines, fertilizers, pesticides, agricultural equipment and tractors, aviation equipment and ships in excess of il,000 tons, and items for personal use (including automobiles up to 2,000 cubic cen- timeters). In addition, a selective consumption tax (also in addition to the import duty) is levied on luxury items, ranging from 20 percent to 300 per- cent of the c . i .f. value. The maximum import duty is 84 percent ad valorem, and the unweighted average rate is 55 percent. In addition, many imports are subject to one or both of the following taxes: (1) an additional import tax for the promotion of nontradi- tional exports of 1 percent of the c . i . f. value, and (2) a maritime freight tax of 10 percent of the ocean freight charges. However, certain goods originating in Andean Pact countries may be imported duty free. Public sector imports must, in principle, be shipped in Peruvian vessels. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles other than debt service must be made at the free market rate and are not subject to payments authorization. Remittances of foreign exchange for debt service payments on pri- vate sector debt, dividends, profits (including de- preciation allowances), royalties, patent fees, and technical assistance fees by enterprises operating in Peru are temporarily suspended until December 31, 1989. Dividends and royalties of petroleum and mineral companies, the servicing of short-term trade credits, short-term working capital loans that were contracted before July 28,1985, and the servic- ing of medium- and long-term debt contracted af ter July 28,1986 are excluded from the suspension. The Ministry of Economy and Finance has the authority to determine other exceptions to the suspension. Deposits in national currency equivalent to the amortization and interest payments on medium- and long-term loans and other credits affected by the suspension is required to be made to the Central Reserve Bank on the dates that payments fall due. Remittances of net profits, including depletion and depreciation allowances that are exempted from suspension, require approval of CONITE and a prior tax clearance. In accordance with Andean Pact rules, the remittance of profits on foreign capital invested in Peru is, in principle, limited to 20 per- cent a year, although a higher percentage may be permitted for investments that generate employ- ment, are situated in undeveloped areas, or help to diversify exports.4 All payments for royalties, pat- 4Companies exporting at least 80 percent of their production to countries outside the Andean Pact and mining companies are exempt from this limit. ents, trademarks, and licenses require the prior ap- proval of CONITE. Foreign-owned enterprises may not enter into new contracts to pay royalties to a foreign parent company or its affiliates. The max- imum interest rate on a new loan from a foreign parent company or its affiliate may not exceed by more than 3 percent the prevailing interest rate for first-class assets in the money market of the country in whose currency the transaction is conducted. Foreign investment by petroleum and mining com- panies is subject to special contracts with the Peru- vian Government. The sale of foreign exchange for business travel abroad, other than official business, is limited to US$220 a person a day of travel up to a maximum of US$4,400 a trip to North America and Europe; US$250 a person a day of travel, up to a maximum of US$5,000 a trip to Asia; and US$150 a person a day up to a maximum of US$3,000 a trip to other countries. Expenditures on tourist travel abroad are limited to US$5,000 or its equivalent in other curren- cies a person a calendar year and must be paid for through the parallel market. A tax of US$100 is levied on travel abroad. Approval by the Foreign Exchange Committee of the Central Reserve Bank is required for purchases of foreign exchange for payments that have not been considered by the exchange regulations. Indicative limits on foreign exchange sales are established in some cases. The Central Reserve Bank, through its Foreign Exchange Committee, may authorize pur- chases of exchange in excess of the specified limits in justified cases. Exports and Export Proceeds Export prohibitions apply to 65 items, mainly rare wildlife and plants, cotton, rubber, and mineral ores. Exports of gold have been prohibited since 1986, and since 1987, new contracts for exports of silver have also been prohibited. Export licenses are required in 87 other cases. The Banco Minero del Peru is the principal exporter of uncut precious stones and pearls, and MINPECO has a monopoly over exports of silver and other refined metals pro- duced by the public enterprises; the Banco Minero has a monopoly over gold exports; and (since Au- gust 1985) PETROPERU has a monopoly over exports of petroleum products. Exports of certain com- modities specified by the General Directorate of Foreign Trade are subject to prior license. Export proceeds not retained by exporters (70 percent) as well as export prefinancing loans must be surren- dered to the Central Reserve Bank within five work- ing days of expected date of receipt. Traditional exports must be sold against an irrevocable letter of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 377 credit confirmed by a bank established in Peru. In special cases, and with the authorization of the Cen- tral Reserve Bank and the General Directorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be sold against sight drafts, provided that payment is received within 180 days of shipment. Exporters of traditional mining and fishing prod- ucts receive a transferable Foreign Exchange Certifi- cate (CLD) equivalent to 10 percent of the f .o .b. value of exports. Exporters of most nontraditional products are granted transferable tax credit certifi- cates (certificados de reintegro tributario, or CERTEX) equivalent to between 10 and 30 percent of the f .o .b. value. An additional 10 percent is granted for ex- ports from outside the Lima-Callao area. Exports of local handicrafts recognized as such by the General Directorate of Foreign Trade are eligible for CERTEX benefits at a rate of 15 percent. CERTEX certificates may be used by the exporter in payment of his tax obligations or may be sold to other taxpayers, who may use them for the same purpose. Nontraditional products are also eligible for export credits through PENT. Textile exports to the United States are not eligible for either CERTEX or PENT. The Export Credit Insurance Company of Peru (SECREX) admin- isters an export credit guarantee program, and the Central Reserve Bank (since December 1983) provides or arranges export finance for nontradi- tional exports. To be eligible for the incentives granted for nontraditional exports, exporters must be listed in the Register of Enterprises Exporting Nontraditional Products; each entry in the list is valid for two years. Exports are subject to a 10 per- cent tax (3 percent for fish products). Most tradi- tional exports are subject to variable surtaxes at varying rates (payable in intis), but exports of cop- per, lead, zinc, silver, gold, tin, and tungsten are exempt when the international price for these prod- ucts is below a specified level. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are sold in the free ex- change market. Capital Outward capital transfers require approval. For transfers derived from foreign direct investment, the approval of CONITE is required; for most other transfers, the appropriate agency is the Central Re- serve Bank. Minimum maturities and grace periods for different categories of external loans contracted or guaranteed by the public sector have been estab- lished. Furthermore, annual global limits are estab- lished on the contracting of new public or publicly guaranteed external debt (with certain exceptions) having an original maturity of more than one but less than ten years. Loan amortization payments of the private sector are authorized by the Central Reserve Bank, and those of the public sector, by the General Directorate of Public Credit. Debt service payments on private sector debt were suspended for a two-year period starting July 29, 1986, subject to certain exceptions (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). This suspension was subse- quently extended to December 31, 1989. There is a limit on the servicing of external public debt equiv- alent to 10 percent of receipts from exports of goods and services. This limitation does not apply to the servicing of short-term debt, reserve liabilities, debts owed to the governments of Latin American countries and regional organizations, payments in kind, or debts incurred since July 29, 1985. Within the overall limit, debt service payments are made only to those creditors from whom net inflows are expected. Short-term trade credits with banks that have not signed a refinancing agreement are to be rolled over on maturity until signature of agreement. Local cur- rency funds for the servicing of these debts are to be placed on deposit in special accounts at the Central Reserve Bank on the maturity date of the original obligation. With the permission of the Central Re- serve Bank, funds in these special accounts may be lent out domestically as loans denominated in for- eign currency, with a maturity of less than one year. Service payments on public sector short-term debt to national or foreign banks are authorized only if matched by a loan from such creditors to Banco de la Nacion or COFIDE for an amount at least as large as the repayment, and conforming with specified conditions. In compliance with the foreign investment re- gime approved by the countries of the Andean Pact, new foreign investments must be authorized and registered with the appropriate agency, in most instances, CONITE, so that such investments are directed to projects considered essential for the country's development. If a foreign company incor- porated in Peru as of July 1, 1971 wishes to benefit from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement, it was required to have agreed by June 30, 1974 to the gradual acquisition by national investors of shares in the company, so as to trans- form it into a mixed or national company during a maximum period of 15 years following the entering into effect of this regime. For this purpose, mixed companies are defined as those in which national investors hold between 51 percent and 80 percent of the capital, and national companies are those in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 378 PERU which at least 80 percent of the capital is owned by national investors. Since June 30, 1974 the required participation of national investors in the capital of an enterprise has been not less than 15 percent; this participation must be raised to at least 45 percent after 10 years and to at least 51 percent at the end of the 15-year period. For foreign companies estab- lished in Peru after June 30, 1971, the 15 percent participation by national investors must be secured at the time of the initiation of production. Foreign investments in firms engaged in basic industries or in mining activities (including petroleum produc- tion) and in firms that export at least 80 percent of their production to countries outside the Andean Common Market are exempt from the requirement of gradual transformation into mixed companies; however, these enterprises do not benefit from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement. Foreign enterprises may have access to short-term domestic credit in amounts not greater than their capital and reserves. Investment in the mining sector is governed by the General Mining Law. Companies holding min- ing concessions may enter into mining contracts with the Government providing for special incen- tives and guarantees or may constitute mixed enter- prises with government participation of at least 25 percent. The Government may grant to mining concessionaries (initiating large-scale investment programs) tax incentives and guaranteed avail- ability of foreign exchange for transfers for (1) re- covery of investment; (2) interest payments if the rate does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar loans in the financial market from which the loans originate; (3) payments for justified services; and (4) reasonable profit remittances, together with guaranteed access to the most favorable exchange rate. Mixed mining enterprises may receive all the benefits and incentives that may be granted by spe- cial contract and, in addition, special tax reductions. Gold The export of gold in the form of precious metals is the monopoly of the Banco Minero del Peru, but gold exports have been suspended since 1986. The authorities do not make foreign exchange available for imports of gold other than by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users. Domestic sales and purchases of gold may be carried out by industrial and profes- sional users, provided that they hold licenses issued by the Banco Minero del Peru, but only MINPECO is authorized to make the initial purchase of newly mined gold and other precious metals. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement January 19. The MUC rate was applied to PENT credits. April 26. The financial system was authorized to buy foreign bank notes, coins, and traveler's checks at the free market exchange rate. The following transactions were authorized to take place at this rate: the c . i . f. value of imports with "own funds ," travel expenditure abroad up to US$5,000 a year, and repurchases of foreign exchange by nonresi- dents up to US$500. June 17. The following transactions were shifted to the free market exchange rate: (1) tickets for travel abroad and fees charged on passports; (2) sale of fuel used for international flights; (3) port fees and maintenance services charged to ships involved in international transportation; (4) payment of freight related to exports; (5) payment of any other trans- portation costs denominated in foreign currency; and (6) remittances of profits by branches of inter- national transportation enterprises. July 10. The free market exchange rate was ap- plied to travel abroad for health reasons and study, technical services, and other services (excluding those related to the petroleum companies). The ex- change rate applicable to expenditures for students in universities abroad by persons earning less than 25 percent of minimum wages would be 127 percent higher than the MUC rate. The exchange rate appli- cable to insurance-related services would be 279 percent higher than the MUC rate. July 21. The Central Reserve Bank was authorized to buy silver from domestic producers at a premium of 15 percent over the exchange rate in the free market for foreign bank notes. August 3. The importation of vehicles, automobile kits (CKDs), and prohibited imports (authorized only if they originated in the LAIA region) were to be effected at the free market exchange rate. September 4. (1) The consumer tax on tickets for travel abroad and the tax on travel abroad was based on the free market exchange rates; and (2) all export earnings (in f .o.b.) were subjected to a 4 percent tax. September 7. The following changes were intro- duced: (1) All controlled exchange rates were uni- fied at a MUC rate of I/. 250 per US$1. The MUC rate would apply to the payment of PENT credits, as well as to the sale of foreign exchange to students abroad for installation and travel expenses; (2) service pay- ments related to movies, television, video tapes, and radio would be effected at the rate determined in the free market for foreign bank notes; (3) imports of most capital goods and the sale of refined silver, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 379 in ingots, repurchases of silver, and certificates of silver would be effected at the free market exchange rate. September 17. (I) Imports of books and auto- mobiles were effected at the free market exchange rate. These imports will no longer require external financing; (2) the following transactions were to be effected at the free market exchange rate: (a) pay- ments for transportation, moving, and other ex- penses of third parties rendering services abroad; (b) remittances abroad for the payment of user's fees, rents, sale, copy, marketing, and/or changes in computer software; and (c) the tax on travel abroad. September 18. The MUC rate was applied to all transactions effected by the petroleum companies. December 31. The free market exchange rate was applied to payments for invisibles other than debt service and to foreign exchange receipts from exter- nal transfers, reimbursement of prepaid freight on exports, reimbursement for insurance claims and liquidation of insurance certificates denominated in foreign exchange issued before December 31, 1988, and capital contributions to legal entities denomi- nated in foreign exchange. Administration of Control September 17. Exchange houses were authorized to (1) purchase foreign exchange and traveler's checks from residents and nonresidents, and (2) sell foreign exchange for tourism abroad and for re- purchases by nonresidents. To become an autho- rized foreign exchange dealer, exchange houses must be registered as a public company with a mini- mum capital of US$200,000 and maintain a deposit of US$100,000 with the Central Reserve Bank at zero interest. (On September 29 both amounts were re- duced to US$20,000.) Exchange dealers were re- quired to report their operations to the Central Re- serve Bank on a daily basis. September 23. The Central Reserve Bank was per- mitted to authorize the opening and maintenance of deposits in foreign exchange. September 29. The financial system was authorized to receive and maintain checking and time deposits in foreign exchange. The deposits should be made in foreign exchange or traveler's checks, and would not be subject to reserve requirements. The finan- cial system would not extend credit based on these accounts, but it could sell the foreign exchange for tourism abroad and own-funds imports. Imports and Import Payments January 29. The system of "own funds" imports was established for the importation of inputs, spare parts, and intermediate and capital goods. A prior import license would still be required. March 10. The following changes were intro- duced: (1) payments for licensed imports through the banking system would require a "prior pay- ments authorization" from the Central Reserve Bank. If imports were externally financed, this fi- nancing must be authorized and registered; (2) the regime governing prior import licenses for own- funds imports was modified, allowing payment for imports prior to shipment, and through the bank- ing system; (3) minimum financing requirements for imports at the I/. 75 per US$1.rate (mainly capital goods) were set as follows: (a) 90 days for imports valued at less than US$100,000; (b) 180 days for imports valued at more than US$100,000 but at less than US$500,000; and 360 days for imports valued at more than US$500,000; (4) the prior import license requirement was waived for imports from countries of the Andean Pact; and (5) a compensation system was established for inputs that had been imported at a more depreciated exchange rate than that appli- cable to the export goods produced by the imported inputs in question. April 5. The use of certificates of deposit in foreign currency was authorized for the payment of up to 33 percent of the c . i .f. value of imports by industrial enterprises that were established using profits that were not remitted under Decree No. 260-86. April 26. Payment authorization for imports by export mining companies would be issued within 72 hours. May 11. The financial system was authorized to sell foreign exchange in advance for the payment of imports with external financing registered since De- cember 12, 1987, as well as for the related interest and commissions. May 27. Imports required for the production of medicines would no longer require a description of the financial arrangements. June 3. The Central Reserve Bank was authorized to give exemptions to the requirement of obtaining a payments authorization certificate for import pay- ments through the banking system. June 7. Sale and transfer of foreign exchange for the c . i .f. value of imports could only be made upon presentation of the financial arrangements for these imports as well as the prior import authorization. This requirement would also apply to own-funds imports. July 8. Import duties applicable to imports under the own-funds system would be based on the ex- change rate specified in the prior import license. August 2. Import duties charged on own-funds imports would be based on the MUC rate in effect on the day of importation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 380 PERU August 25. Imports under the own-funds system would no longer be subject to the import supervi- sion regime. September 4. Imports of capital goods, inputs, raw materials, and spare parts for the exclusive use of the mining sector could be effected by any person, provided that the Directorate General of Industries does not object. The prior import license and other documentation requirements for customs release could be obtained once the goods had arrived. September 17. The sale of foreign exchange in ad- vance for the payment of imports with external fi- nancing was prohibited. Payments for Invisibles March 10. The sale of tickets for travel abroad on credit was suspended. August 7. The prohibition of profit remittances abroad and private external debt servicing was ex- tended for another six months to December 31, 1988. December 31. Payments for invisibles other than for debt service would be made with foreign ex- change obtained in the free market for foreign bank notes. Such payments were no longer subject to prior authorization. Exports and Export Proceeds February 24. Foreign exchange earnings from ex- ports of textiles made of cotton, wool, or alpaca, if they comply with specified characteristics, were permitted to be exchanged into the bank certificates in the deposit market. April 28. Tax credit certificates for nontraditional exports (CERTEX) were denominated in domestic currency, but the certificate would be adjusted by no less than changes in the MUC rate. June 17. Exporters of traditional mining and fish products would receive a Foreign Exchange Certifi- cate (CLD) equivalent to 10 percent of the f .o .b. value of their exports. The certificates could be used by the exporter for the payment of imports of in- puts, spare parts, and capital equipment, or be transferred to other export enterprises for the same purposes. If not used within 90 calendar days, CLDs would be redeemed at the exchange rate pre- vailing at the issuing date. Importers using CLDs would not need payments authorization minimum external financing. July 23. All exporters would receive CLDs for the equivalent of 10 percent of their foreign exchange earnings. September 7. Receipts from export were subject to a 4 percent tax. November 4. The 4 percent tax on export receipts was abolished. November 21. All exporters would receive CLDs for the equivalent of 30 percent of their export earn- ings. Export earnings ( f .o .b .) would be subject to a 10 percent tax, except for those from fish and fish products for which a 3 percent tax would apply. Proceeds from Invisibles May 12. Payments of hotel services by nonresi- dents would be effected at the free market exchange rate. June 17. Parastatals and private agencies in the social welfare and cultural fields were authorized to exchange any foreign exchange receipts from Inter- national Technical Cooperation Institutions at the free market exchange rate, provided these agencies were authorized to hold deposit accounts denomi- nated in foreign exchange with the financial system. Capital June 29. Until December 31, 1990 any person or entity would be permitted to repatriate capital with- out revealing the origin of the funds. Such transfers would not be subject to the income tax and would be effected at the free market exchange rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine Peso. The authorities of the Philippines do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transac- tions, and exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply in the exchange mar- ket. However, the authorities intervene when neces- sary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market and in light of their other policy objectives in the medium term. On December 31, 1988, the official rate was P 21.335 per US$1. The spot buying and selling margins are determined on a competitive basis for all transactions under the general jurisdiction of the Bankers' Association of the Philippines. The Central Bank is not governed by the trading rules of the Bankers' Association of the Philippines in making its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange. Interbank trading takes place on-floor at the Foreign Exchange Trading Cen- ter (FOREX) from 4:30 p.m. through 5:00 p.m. daily. Off-floor interbank trading is prohibited. The Cen- tral Bank from time to time acts as a buyer or as a supplier on the trading floor. Under the Private Corporate Sector Foreign Cur- rency Debt Repayment Program administered by the Private Debt Restructuring and Repayment Cor- poration (PDRRC) (Central Bank Circular Nos. 1076 and 1178), corporate debtors and their foreign credi- tors are provided with options for arranging repay- ments and rescheduling, with partial forward ex- change cover provided if desired by the debtor; full forward cover is provided only for financially dis- tressed borrowers. To be eligible for the program, debt must have original maturities falling due be- tween October 17, 1983 and December 31, 1986 (Central Bank Circular No. 1076) or between Jan- uary 1, 1987 and December 31, 1992 (Central Bank Circular No. 1178). If forward cover is provided, the PDRRC enters into a forward contract with the debtor, whereby the debtor would pay to the PDRRC peso amounts equivalent to the rescheduled matu- rities converted at the exchange rate prevailing on the date that the eligible debt was effectively en- tered into the program, plus quarterly fees equal to the product of the current domestic interest rate and the peso value of the outstanding debt; and the PDRRC would remit the peso value of the obligation at the prevailing exchange rate to the Treasury De- partment of the Central Bank, which in turn would assume the principal obligation and remit the inter- est payments to the creditor. Alternatively, the PDRRC may extend a national peso loan to the bor- rower equal to the peso equivalent of the debt in question, converted at the exchange rate prevailing on the date the debt was effectively entered into the program. Subject to PDRRC's receipt from the debtor of the service payments on this national peso loan, the PDRRC would remit the service payments on the foreign loan to the creditor through the Treasury Department of the Central Bank on behalf of the borrower, the foreign loan having been assumed into the restructured debt of the Central Bank. The Central Bank likewise extends forward ex- change cover to the foreign liability of the national government and 14 specified non-financial public sector corporations. They are required to deposit the peso equivalent of the obligation in a blocked account on the date of the original maturity, com- puted on the basis of the exchange rate prevailing on the date of deposit, with the Central Bank through the national Treasury or their authorized agent banks. The deposit is for the peso equivalent of amortization of principal, interest, and penalties, if any, on their foreign exchange obligations owed to foreign commercial banks maturing between the period January 1, 1987 to December 31, 1992 and subject to rescheduling. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank on the basis of policy decisions adopted by the Monetary Board. Certain new for- eign direct or portfolio investments in the Philip- pines require the prior approval of the Board of Investments (BOI). In addition to commercial banks (KBS), thrift banks, rural banks, and the tourist-oriented estab- lishments are authorized by the Central Bank to deal in foreign exchange; subject to certain condi- tions, they may purchase foreign currencies from tourists and other specified nonresidents for con- version into pesos. Corporations, partnerships, or single proprietorships registered with the Depart- ment of Tourism may accept foreign exchange in payment of goods sold or services rendered. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments for outgoing payments, but all exchange 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 382 PHILIPPINES proceeds from exports and invisibles must be ob- tained in prescribed currencies.1 Most payments and transfers to South Africa are prohibited. Autho- rized agent banks and foreign exchange dealers are authorized to accept notes denominated in Saudi Arabian rivals, Kuwaiti dinars, and Bahrain dinars for conversion into pesos. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the names of nonresidents, whether indi- vidual or corporate, without the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from inward remit- tances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income from, or peso proceeds of, conversion of properties (real or per- sonal) located in the Philippines and belonging to nonresidents. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawals. Withdrawals from nonresident accounts for transfer abroad are subject to individual application with supporting evidence and to established limits where applicable, such as in the case of emigrants. Subject to authorization, both residents and non- residents may maintain foreign currency accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. All merchandise imports are allowed, except for certain commodities that are regulated or restricted for rea- sons, inter alia, of public health, national security, international commitments, and development and rationalization of local industries. Imports are at present classified into freely im- portable commodities, prohibited, banned, regu- lated, or liberalized commodities. The first group comprises commodities that are freely importable and that may be given due course by authorized agent banks (AABs) without prior approval of the Central Bank. Prohibited commodities are com- modities whose importation is prohibited, such as those originating from South Africa, onions, po- tatoes, garlic, cabbages (except for seedling pur- poses), coffee, used clothing and rags, and toy guns. The third category—banned commodities— consists of those for which importation requires Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Brunei dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indo- nesian rupiahs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, Thai baht, and U.S. dollars. prior Central Bank approval. These are further clas- sified into nonessential consumer (NEC) and un- classified consumer (UC) goods. Regulated com- modity imports are defined as commodities that require clearances and permits from various gov- ernment agencies but do not need prior Central Bank approval before importation. Finally, liber- alized commodities are those that were formerly banned but may now be imported without prior Central Bank approval. Sales of foreign exchange for imports of com- modities that are classified under the two categories of consumer goods—UC and NEC —are subject to prior approval of the Central Bank, and the opening of letters of credit for such imports must be reported to the Central Bank within 24 hours. Payments for imports of certain other commodities (wheat, raw cotton, and leaf tobacco) are permitted only if they are financed through certain official credit arrange- ments. Imports on a consignment basis require prior central bank approval. All importations of ma- chinery, equipment, and spare parts for agriculture and for export-oriented enterprises registered with the Central Bank, BOI, and Export Processing Zone Authority (EPZA) may be given due course by AABs without prior approval of the Central Bank or favorable endorsement from concerned govern- ment agencies, except those falling under "other regulated imports." Importations of regulated capi- tal goods financed through foreign credits must be referred to the Central Bank for prior approval. Prior approval for imports of machinery and capi- tal equipment by the BOI is required for certain local content and "progressive" manufacturing programs. Trade with any of the state-trading countries, ex- cluding Yugoslavia, must be effected through the Philippine International Trading Corporation. As a method of payment, commodities may be imported against letters of credit, on a document against acceptance (D/A) basis, or under open ac- count (O/A) arrangements. The use of the D/A and O/A procedures is restricted to oil firms, export- oriented companies certified or registered by the Central Bank, the BOI, the Garments and Textile Export Board, and the EPZA, exporters of semicon- ductor devices, exporters of garments and footwear, franchised public utility concerns, participants in the Progressive Car Manufacturing Program, Pro- gressive Export Program for Consumer Electronics Products, Progressive Diesel Manufacturing Pro- gram, and Progressive Motorcycle Program, and accredited participants in the BOI Pulp and Paper Industry Rationalization Program. The use of these procedures by producer firms is normally restricted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 383 to commodities in the Essential Producer Goods category. Unless arrangements are made for such terms of credit, imports in excess of US$1,000 must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the day of shipment and are subject to the release certificate requirement. Imports financed by the im- porter's own foreign exchange or not involving pay- ments from the Philippines (i.e., "no-dollar" im- ports) are allowed, subject to prescribed conditions, and are exempt from the requirement of opening letters of credit. The reserve requirement on mar- ginal deposit on all import letters of credit is 100 percent. At the request of an authorized agent bank or other financial institution, a firm may be "watch- listed" by the Central Bank for arrears on its loan repayment commitments. A watch-listed firm may not open import letters of credit without the ap- proval of the Central Bank, which will allow the opening of letters of credit only after a schedule for the repayment of overdue obligations has been agreed upon. Certain authorized agent banks re- quire 50 percent deposit against the opening of letters of credit for such firms, compared with 25 percent in normal cases. There are separate regulations for imports into border regions by barter traders. Payments for Invisibles Virtually all payments to South Africa are pro- hibited. In principle, all other payments are permit- ted, with prior approval of the Central Bank, pro- vided that amounts of more than US$100 are substantiated by documentary evidence. However, there are certain limits established by the Central Bank for purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad by residents, remittances for educational ex- penses, maintenance and expenses of dependents of residents while abroad, remittances of profits, dividends, and interest, royalties, and for film and other rentals (see below). Foreign exchange al- lowance for travel abroad is limited to the following amounts: (1) for both business and nonbusiness travel, irrespective of duration, up to a maximum of US$3,000 for the United States, Canada, South America, Europe, Australia, the Middle East, Af- rica, Japan, and New Zealand (Area I); (2) for both business and nonbusiness travel, irrespective of du- ration, up to a maximum of US$1,000 for Hong Kong, Taiwan Province of China, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, and other countries not included in the coverage of the area under (1) (Area II); (3) for travelers under 21 years of age, up to a maximum of US$500, irrespective of duration and destination; and (4) for overseas con- tract workers with prearranged employment, up to a maximum of US$100. Applications for travel abroad for a f if th or subsequent time within one calendar year are subject to careful review by the agent banks to prevent abuse. A foreign tourist holding a visa valid for up to 59 days may remit abroad up to the equivalent of US$1,000 against payment in another foreign currency brought in by the tourist; beyond this amount, approval must be obtained from the Central Bank. The following limits apply to exchange for educa- tional expenses abroad for students undertaking bachelor's, master's, or doctoral degree courses at duly accredited colleges or universities. The al- lowances are divided according to the areas in which the study is undertaken: living allowances are provided up to US$500 a month in Area I and US$350 a month in Area II; books and supplies allowances up to US$500 a year in both areas; clothing allowance up to US$500 a year in Area I and US$300 a year in Area II; other miscellaneous school expenses are allowed up to US$500 a year in Area I and US$300 a year in Area II. Any scholarship al- lowances are deducted from these amounts. High school students may be granted foreign exchange for education only under an exchange program and under the following conditions: the maximum travel funds per student is US$500, and the maximum clothing allowance and incidental expenses during the stay abroad is US$500, or US$1,000 a student a calendar year. The limits on remittances to dependents of resi- dents are as follows: US$250 a month for each dependent living in Area I as defined above, and US$150 a month for each dependent living in Area II. The maintenance allowances for dependents are granted only for close relatives under conditions prescribed by the Central Bank. Remittances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents out of net profits realized after October 14,1984 are permitted in full, provided that remittances are not financed from domestic borrowings. Remittances of royalties or rentals on patents, trademarks, and copyrights ac- cruing after October 14, 1984 are freely permitted (net of taxes) for contracts registered with the Cen- tral Bank or the Technology Transfer Board, pro- vided that contracts do not exceed five-year terms and do not include restrictions on the export of the product. Remittances of the producer's share of earnings (net of taxes) made on motion-picture film and rentals on television film are freely permitted, provided generally that the shares or rentals do not exceed 60 percent of net proceeds from films. Not- withstanding other provisions, however, all unser- viced eligible nontrade, nonloan remittances (e.g., ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 384 PHILIPPINES dividends, profits, royalties, lease payments, fees, commissions, etc.) earned and having become due and payable before October 15, 1984 and in arrears of transfers as of that date shall not be serviced without prior central bank approval. Dividends of current income arising from equity investments in nonpriority sectors made in connec- tion with the program for the conversion of external debt into equity investments may not be transferred during the first four years after the investment is made; thereafter, such dividends and current in- come may be transferred. Foreign exchange within the limits established above may be purchased from authorized agent banks, with the prior approval of the Central Bank. Applications for payments for certain invisibles for which no basic allowance has been set are consid- ered on their merits by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export from the Philip- pines foreign currency or any other foreign ex- change except as authorized by the Central Bank. Residents may take out, as part of their travel al- lowance, up to US$1,000 in foreign bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had previously brought in and declared, less any amounts converted into pesos. Resident and nonresident travelers require prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than P500 in domestic bank notes and coin or checks, money orders, and other bills of ex- change drawn in pesos. When traveling abroad, citizens of the Philippines must pay a travel tax of P 2,700 for first-class passage and P 1,620 for economy-class passage. Reduced rates of PI, 350 for first-class passengers and P 810 for economy-class passengers are provided for groups of people travel- ing for recognized special purposes. Reduced rates of P 400 for first-class passengers and P 300 for economy-class passengers are provided for de- pendents of contract workers duly registered with the Philippine Overseas Employment Administra- tion (POEA). port permits for gold, which are issued by the Cen- tral Bank); reports of foreign sales of copra, coconut oil, and sugar-based commodities, however, are ap- proved for registration only by the Central Bank. Registration of sales of sugar-based commodities requires prior clearance by the Department of Trade and Industry. As a general rule, no commodity may be ex- ported, unless it is covered by a draft drawn in one of the prescribed currencies (see footnote 1) and unless collection of the proceeds will be undertaken by an authorized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or mail trans- fer may be allowed. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must spe- cifically contract with the exporter to buy the ex- change proceeds. No shipment of exports will be allowed by customs, unless a certificate is issued by a bank stating that payment has been received or arranged. Export proceeds must be received in a prescribed currency within 60 days from the date of shipment (or within such period as may be estab- lished in special cases) and surrendered to the agent bank within 3 business days of receipt. The un- drawn balances of exports involving initial drawings of less than 100 percent of the f.o.b. invoice value must be collected and repatriated within 150 days from the date of shipment for exports to Europe, Africa, and Latin America, and 120 days from date of shipment for exports to other countries. An irre- vocable letter of credit is required for all exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut oil, and for all exports to Guam, Hong Kong, Indonesia, and Japan. Exports of perishable commodities to Hong Kong require prepayment. An export tax is levied on logs. Export trade with state-trading countries, exclud- ing Yugoslavia, is handled through the Philippine International Trading Corporation. There are sepa- rate regulations for exports from border regions by barter traders. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and eco- nomic development are also prohibited. Otherwise, exports are generally not restricted but are regu- lated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Cen- tral Bank. Export proceeds must be received in 18 designated currencies. Authorized agent banks is- sue the necessary export permits upon registration of the exporter's report of foreign sales (except ex- Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold within three business days to an authorized agent bank. When- ever the net foreign exchange receipts from invis- ibles amount to at least US$100,000 (or its equiv- alent in other currencies) for the calendar year immediately preceding, the firm may, upon applica- tion, be certified by the Central Bank as export- oriented and shall be entitled to retain a portion of its earnings in a special foreign currency deposit account with AABs for operating expenses abroad and other contingencies, equivalent to the average ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 385 expenses incurred during the preceding 3 months plus 10 percent of the gross foreign exchange re- ceipts during the immediately preceding 12 months. Philippine nationals employed abroad are permitted to open U.S. dollar deposit accounts with authorized agent banks, in which they may retain any U.S. dollars they remit to the Philippines. To be eligible for credit to such accounts, earnings must be transferred through Philippine diplomatic establishments. Under a foreign currency deposit scheme, inward remittances of foreign currencies (including foreign bank notes, coins, and traveler's checks) by resi- dents or nonresidents for deposit in numbered for- eign currency accounts are allowed, provided that the remittances represent neither current earnings or income of residents nor payments by nonresi- dents pursuant to contractual obligations. Balances in such accounts are freely transferable abroad. Phi- lippine nationals working abroad are required to repatriate specified minimum shares of their for- eign earnings, ranging from 50 percent to 80 per- cent. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to P 500 in domestic bank notes and coin and checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos, of which not more than P 50 may consist of Philippine coin. Peso- denominated gold coins issued by the Central Bank of the Philippines are exempt from these requirements. Capital Virtually all payments and transfers to South Af- rica are prohibited. All inward and outward capital transfers, with the exception of certain banking op- erations and certain transactions related to financ- ing of international trade (see below), are subject to the prior and specific approval of the Central Bank. When applications for new inward foreign invest- ments (in kind or in cash), as well as new foreign borrowings are reviewed, preference is given to projects approved by the BOI, to export-oriented industries, and to other (non-export-oriented) in- dustries not using domestic credit resources. The law guarantees full repatriation of cash investments made after March 15,1973 in export-oriented indus- tries that have been certified by the Central Bank, in enterprises registered with the BOI, and in se- curities certified by the Central Bank and traded on the Manila and Makati Stock Exchanges. As a mini- mum, foreign investors must hold securities for at least 90 days before the proceeds become eligible for repatriation. Foreign companies are eligible to borrow pesos from domestic sources, provided they have a debt- equity ratio of 60:40 in high-priority sectors, 55:45 in medium-priority sectors, and 50:50 in low-priority sectors. Foreign direct cash investments made after March 15, 1973 and registered with the Central Bank are freely repatriable, except for investments in domestic commercial banks, which, if made after March 31, 1973, are freely repatriable and if made before that date are repatriable according to the schedule specified under (4) in the following paragraph. There are restrictions on sales of foreign exchange for the repatriation of foreign direct cash invest- ments made before March 16, 1973 and noncash investments made after March 15,1973, depending on the category of industry where the investment is made, as follows: (1) investments in export-oriented industries certified by the Central Bank are repatri- able in full, but no annual installment may exceed the applicant's share in the net foreign exchange earnings of the firm in the preceding year; (2) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI, producing import substitutes or exports, are repatriable in three equal annual installments start- ing one year af ter the liquidation of the investment, but no annual installment may exceed the total net foreign exchange earnings in the preceding year; (3) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI (not included in (2) above and not utilizing domestic credit resources) are repatriable in three equal annual installments starting one year after the liquidation of the investment; and (4) for invest- ments in the remaining industries, repatriation is allowed according to the following schedule: for amounts of US$0.25 million or less, five equal an- nual installments after liquidation; for amounts within the range US$0.25-0.5 million, seven equal annual installments af ter liquidation; and for amounts of over US$0.5 million, nine equal annual installments after liquidation. Approval and regis- tration by the Central Bank are required for the assigned capital of branches of foreign banks to be eligible for profit remittances and capital repatria- tion. During the period between the sale of the investment and actual repatriation, the proceeds may be reinvested, subject to approval by the Cen- tral Bank, in government securities, in shares of stock in BOI-registered industries, or in shares of stock in export-oriented industries certified by the Central Bank. Foreign direct investment is also permitted in connection with the Program for the Conversion of Philippine External Debt into Equity Investments. Under this program, most categories of external ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 386 PHILIPPINES debt, including rescheduled debt, may be con- verted into equity investment. Such equity invest- ments are subject to a fee and/or foreign exchange funding requirement that is less for preferred sec- tors (the export, agricultural, and certain social sec- tors) than for other sectors. For investments in the priority sectors, capital repatriation is not permitted during the first three years after the investment, and during the fourth through eighth year, not more than 20 percent of the capital portion of the investment may be repaid in any one year; for in- vestments in other sectors, capital repatriation is not permitted during the first five years, and during the sixth through the tenth year, not more than 20 per- cent of the capital portion of the investment may be repaid in any one year. Without prior approval from the Central Bank, commercial banks may not receive credit from abroad other than credit arising from normal inter- national trade transactions. They may, however, ac- cept deposits in nine scheduled currencies2 from nonresidents of foreign nationality; such deposits are freely repatriable at the prevailing exchange rate and are exempt from the 35 percent withholding tax. Twenty-six domestic commercial banks and four local branches of foreign banks are licensed to operate in an expanded foreign currency deposit scheme; these foreign currency deposit unit banks (FCDUs) are empowered to borrow funds from in- ternational money markets for domestic on-lending. Nonbank residents may obtain suppliers' credits from abroad, provided that repayment terms are within the limits prescribed by the Central Bank. Maturities of long-term loans or repayment terms should be as follows: (1) US$250,000 or less, three years; (2) over US$250,000 up to US$500,000, five years; (3) over US$500,000 up to US$3 million, seven years; and (4) over US$3 million, eight to ten years. Firms whose products are clearly destined for ex- port, as well as firms earning foreign exchange and duly certified as belonging to other priority areas (food, energy, infrastructure, transport, and com- munication) with appropriate government agen- cies, may secure credits in excess of US$3 million with a minimum repayment period of seven to eight years. Interest rates may not be more than 1.5 per- cent above the prime rate of the lending country. Applications are not approved if the proposed pro- ject expands capacity in an industry deemed to be overcrowded or for firms that are in arrears with government financial institutions. Any prospective 2Canadian dollars, deulsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. borrowing equivalent to US$3 million or more must be submitted for inclusion in the Central Bank's programming of external credit resources. Sales of foreign exchange for amortization of loans are per- mitted in accordance with the terms of loan con- tracts approved by the Central Bank. The same ap- plies for loan contracts registered with the Central Bank prior to November 26, 1969. For those not falling under these two categories, prior approval by the Central Bank is required for sales of foreign exchange for repayment of loans. Emigrants may transfer up to US$5,000, subject to verification by the Central Bank. The remaining liquid assets may be withdrawn in five years, begin- ning one year from emigration. Outward investment by resident persons, firms, or corporations requires prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank through the Foreign Exchange Operations and Investments Department. Except as otherwise specifically authorized, resident persons, firms, or corporations may not enter into any contract or transaction that may involve settlement in foreign exchange, or involving any assets belonging to them expressed in foreign currencies or payable or deliv- erable abroad. This restriction also applies to con- tracts or transactions involving assets within the Philippines belonging to a nonresident person, firm, or corporation, and to their export or import. Detailed regulations are in force concerning trans- actions in securities between residents and nonresidents. Twenty-three foreign banks have been authorized to operate offshore banking units in the Philip- pines. These units may engage in a wide range of foreign currency transactions with nonresidents and with other offshore units. Offshore banking units may open and maintain deposit accounts in pesos with domestic agent banks exclusively to meet administrative and other operating expenses and to pay to designated local beneficiaries of non- resident Filipinos the equivalent of foreign ex- change remittances channeled through the offshore banking units' correspondent banks abroad. Off- shore banking units may also sell inward remit- tances of foreign exchange to the Central Bank. The Omnibus Investments Code of 1987 (E.O. No. 226) guarantees all investors in enterprises reg- istered with the BOI the right to repatriate their investments and to remit earnings thereon as well as sums needed to meet payments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom from expropriation and requisition. There are different arrangements for "pioneer invest- ments" and "preferred investments"; the former are granted certain incentives over and above those given to preferred investments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 387 Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by for- eign nationals are permitted to operate only in "pi- oneer areas of investment," and at least 60 percent of the outstanding voting capital stock of registered enterprises in "preferred areas of investment" must be owned by Philippine nationals. Under the Om- nibus Investments Code, foreign investments in new enterprises not registered under Book I (In- vestment with Incentives) must obtain prior au- thority from the BOI. Authority will be granted unless the proposed investment (1) would conflict with existing constitutional provisions and laws reg- ulating the degree of required ownership by Philip- pine nationals in the enterprise; (2) would pose a clear and present danger of promoting monopolies or combinations in restraint of trade; (3) would be made in an enterprise engaged in an area ade- quately being exploited by Philippine nationals; (4) would conflict or be inconsistent with the Invest- ment Priorities Plan in force at the time the invest- ment is sought to be made; or (5) would not contrib- ute to the sound and balanced development of the national economy on a self-sustaining basis. Invest- ments in the form of foreign exchange or other assets actually transferred to the Philippines must also be registered with the Central Bank. The BOI assesses and appraises the value of such assets other than foreign exchange. Gold Producers of gold may be eligible for assistance under the Gold Industry Assistance Act, irrespec- tive of whether the gold is a by-product or the prin- cipal or only product of their operations. The Central Bank purchases the entire output of the 19 domestic primary gold producers. The pro- ducers are paid in Philippine pesos on the basis of the latest London fixing price and the prevailing Philippine peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of official interna- tional reserves. Small gold panners are exempt from the scheme. Gold in any form other than jewelry may be imported only for industrial and artistic purposes, and any person desiring to import gold must secure a license from the appropriate depart- ment of the Central Bank. Various denominations of gold coins have been issued by the Central Bank of the Philippines as follows: a 1-Peso Paul VI coin (1970); a 1,000-Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1975); a 1,500-Piso IMF- IBRD coin (1976); the 1,500-Piso Ang Bangong Lipunan coins (1977 and 1978); a 5,000-Piso Ang Bangong Lipunan coin (1977); a 2,500-Piso Douglas MacArthur centenary coin (1980); and a 1,500-Piso Pope John Paul II coin (1981). Transactions in legal tender gold coins are governed by the provisions of Central Bank Circular No. 570, dated June 9, 1977. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement April 20. Commercial banks were informed that all spot or forward interbank foreign exchange transactions should include cancelable forward con- tracts, options, and similar transactions. Imports and Import Payments January 8. The guidelines on "no-dollar" imports of motor vehicles under certain conditions were is- sued (Central Bank Circular No. 1168). February 29. Certain paper products (e.g., old and out-of-date newspapers and periodicals, including those imported by paper mill manufacturers for production of packing materials) were reclassified from the category of semi-unclassified producer goods (SUP) to essential producer goods (EP). April 25. The importation of 129 products no longer required the prior approval of the concerned government agencies (Central Bank Circular No. 1174). May 23. The import duty rates on certain im- ported articles, as provided under the Tariff and Customs Code of 1978 (as amended), were modi- fied in order to implement the decisions of the Third ASEAN Summit and the Twenty-Third Meeting of the Committee on Trade and Tourism (COTT). The decisions provided that a minimum margin of pref- erence of 25 percent on certain items contained in the Philippine exclusion list and a margin of prefer- ence of 50 percent on certain items that are under the ASEAN Preferential Trading Arrangements (PTA) be attained within five years (Executive Order No. 325). August 30. The importation of goods whose f .o.b. value is less than US$5,000 or its equivalent was exempted from the requirement of inspection by international agencies. However, commercial im- portation of specified products included in the cer- tified list of the Bureau of Customs, irrespective of value, was subjected to the preshipment inspection (Central Bank Circular No. 1181). October 19. The prior import permit requirement for the importation of meat of bovine animals was lifted (Central Bank Circular No. 1187). November 10. Section 22(a) of Circular No. 1029 was amended to reduce the prescribed minimum ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 388 PHILIPPINES repayment terms for OA/DA importations from 60 days to 30 days (Central Bank Circular No. 1189). December 22. The importation of 94 products no longer required the prior approval of the concerned government agencies (Central Bank Circular No. 1192). Capital August 19. The Central Bank's program on the repayment of certain foreign currency debt obliga- tions of the private corporate sector borrowers orig- inally maturing between January 1, 1987 and De- cember 31,1992 (Private Corporate Sector Currency Debt Repayment Program 1987-92) was announced (Central Bank Circular No. 1178). August 23. The guidelines on the restructuring and repayments of certain foreign currency debt obligations of Philippine private financial sector ob- ligors (Private Financial Sector Foreign Currency Debt Repayment Program 1988) were announced (Central Bank Circular No. 1179). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND (Position on December 32, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Poland is the Zloty (100 groszy = 1 zloty). The exchange rate between the zloty and the currencies of countries other than members of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA),1 Albania, and the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies, each of which ac- counts for at least 1 percent of Poland's external current account settlements with no change in the convertible currency area. The currency composi- tion of the basket and the currency weights are defined on a monthly basis in light of current ac- count transactions in convertible currency. The value of the zloty in terms of the basket is adjusted periodically on the basis of the difference between foreign and domestic prices for traded goods and with a view to securing the profitability of major exports.2 On February 1, 1988, the external value of the zloty for the U.S. dollar was changed from Zl 320.00 = US$1 to Zl 380 = US$1; during the course of 1988, a series of smaller but frequent exchange rate adjustments were also made. The National Bank of Poland quotes exchange rates for the European Currency Unit (ECU), the SDR, and the currencies of 29 countries3 considered market economies; although it does not deal in the notes and coins of a limited number4 of the curren- cies, it stands ready to effect transactions in all of them. Buying and selling rates are set with margins of 0.5 percent around the middle rate, except for notes and coins, for which the margins are set at 2 percent. Rates are generally set at least once a week, normally on Thursdays, to become effective when they are published on the following Monday. JThe participants in the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 2For these purposes, profitability is considered to have been achieved when the ratio of the export transaction price of a particular product to its domestic price (both expressed in a common currency) is equal to or greater than unity. 3Australian dollar, Austrian schilling, Belgian franc, Canadian dollar, Danish krone, deutsche mark, Finnish markka, French franc, Greek drachma, Indian rupee, Italian lira, Iranian rial, Irish pound, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinar, Lebanese pound, Libyan dinar, Luxembourg franc, Netherlands guilder, Nor- wegian krone, pound sterling, Portuguese escudo, Saudi Ara- bian riyal, Spanish peseta, Swedish krona, Swiss franc, U.S. dollar, Turkish lira, and Yugoslav dinar. 4Indian rupee, Iranian rial, Irish pound, Kuwaiti dinar, Libyan dinar, and Saudi Arabian riyal. Rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are based on the quoted rate for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the relevant currencies in interna- tional markets on the day the rates are set. The buying and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dollars on December 30, 1988 were Zl 500.041 and Zl 505.061, respectively, per US$1.5 There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of the currencies of market economies for nor- mal business transactions, but a 200 percent sur- charge is applied on the sale of such currencies to Polish tourists traveling abroad. The Council of Banks sets maximum allowable commissions and charges on foreign exchange transactions in line with international practice. These levies are paid in zlotys (foreign currency) by domestic (foreign) customers. Most of Poland's trade and financial settlements with CMEA member countries are effected in trans- ferable rubles through the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC). The clearing ruble is used for most settlements with Albania and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and for some settlements with Kampuchea and the Lao People's Democratic Republic. Official exchange rates for transferable and clearing rubles are set by the Na- tional Bank of Poland and published each Monday. Exchange rates for transferable and clearing rubles are set at the same level, and are adjusted periodically, with a view to ensuring the prof- itability of the major portion of exports to the social- ist countries. On February 1, 1988, the exchange rate for the transferable ruble (TR) was changed from Zl 140.00 = TR1 to Zl 170 = TR1, and a series of smaller but more frequent exchange rate adjust- ments were also made in 1988. Buying and selling rates for transferable and clearing rubles are quoted with a spread of 0.5 percent around the middle rate. On December 30,1988, the buying and selling rates for the zloty against transferable and clearing rubles were Zl 228.85 and Zl 231.15, respectively, per one ruble. 5Since March 15,1989, a private foreign exchange market con- sisting of licensed foreign exchange bureaus has been in opera- tion. The exchange rates in this market are determined by supply and demand conditions. 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 390 POLAND The National Bank of Poland also quotes weekly exchange rates for the zloty against the currencies of other CMEA member countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. These rates are based on multilateral and supplemental bilateral agreements with the socialist partners and are used for noncommercial settlements (e.g., diplomatic representation expenses, international travel, schol- arships, etc.). Buying and selling rates (including for notes and coins) are set with margins of 0.5 per- cent around the middle rate. A 30 percent surcharge is applied on the sale of these currencies for private trips abroad; the rate of surcharges applicable to trips to Czechoslovakia and Hungary is 150 percent, and to other member countries of the CMEA, 50 percent. Administration of Control The authority to make basic changes in the Ex- change Regulation Law lies with the Parliament. Implementing regulations are promulgated by the Council of Ministers and the Ministers of Finance and of Foreign Economic Relations. The authority for the enforcement of the foreign exchange regula- tions rests with the Minister of Finance, who ex- ercises related functions mainly through the Presi- dent of the National Bank of Poland. Only economic units authorized by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations (MFER) may effect exports and imports; units not so authorized must channel their imports and exports through autho- rized organizations. At the end of December 1988, 1,731 units were authorized to engage in foreign trade on a permanent basis, and 62 of these were specialized foreign trade organizations. Specialized foreign trade organizations are generally authorized to trade in all goods, subject to the limitations of their charter and rights as specified by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations. Except where a spe- cialized foreign trade organization trades in goods (such as coal) that are basic to the economy, none of these organizations has a monopoly in any one item. In addition to specialized foreign trade organiza- tions, 854 economic units had specific trading rights at the end of December 1988; 485 of these were major producing and servicing companies or were affiliated with such companies. Of these units, 815 were legal entities, such as small-scale producers and cooperatives. The remainder were individual persons, of whom 182 were foreign residents estab- lished in Poland. Subject to an appeal in the admin- istrative courts, the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations is empowered to withdraw the trading right of any unit that ceases to meet the conditions stipulated in that unit's trading authority. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Po- land has multilateral and bilateral payments agree- ments are made in the currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.6 If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agreements, settle- ment is made in a convertible currency. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Resident Accounts Polish residents (natural persons) can hold for- eign exchange in the form of currency, stocks, bonds, etc. Four types of foreign currency accounts are available: convertible currency accounts "A," foreign exchange retention accounts "ROD," Bank PKO, S.A. deposit certificates, and socialist cur- rency accounts "S." (1) Accounts "A" can be freely credited with con- vertible currency brought or transferred from abroad and/or deposited without the requirement of a declaration of the sources of the funds .7 Ac- count holders can use the funds freely to effect transfers abroad, to buy goods and services, to fi- nance tourist travel abroad by them and their next of kin, to withdraw in the form of foreign currency or foreign exchange coupons (Bank PKO, S.A. cou- pons) for use in hard currency stores, and to effect 6At the end of December 1988, Poland had bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Bangladesh, Brazil, the People's Re- public of China, Colombia, Ecuador, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, and Nepal. Poland also had trade agreements with bilateral pay- ments features for certain commodities with Argentina, Bangla- desh, Malta, Pakistan, and Yugoslavia. Except for bilateral agree- ments with Albania, the People's Republic of China, India, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Nepal, settle- ments under bilateral agreements were in U.S. dollars. Settle- ments with the People's Republic of China were in Swiss francs; with India, in Indian rupees; with Nepal, in pounds sterling; and in clearing rubles with Albania, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Lao People's Democratic Republic. 7Prior to July 1, 1988, these accounts required a declaration of the sources of funds (i.e., royalties, copyright, gifts from non- residents). Effective July 1, 1988, these accounts consolidated accounts "N," which had been available since April 1, 1985 and which could be freely credited with convertible currencies with- out a declaration requirement. Previously, funds on deposit in accounts "N" could not be transferred or used to finance travel abroad, but a f ter one year the funds were transferable to an individual's account "A." ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 391 gifts to family members. The funds on deposit can- not be used to effect settlements between individ- uals. Withdrawals in zlotys, converted at the pre- vailing exchange rate, are freely permitted. Interest, paid in foreign exchange, is earned at the following annual rates: for accounts maintained in French francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, 4 percent on call deposits, 8, 9, and 10 percent, respectively, on one-, two-, and three-year term deposits; and for accounts maintained in deutsche mark and Swiss francs, 3 percent on call deposits, 7, 8, and 9 per- cent, respectively, on one-, two-, and three-year term deposits. (2) Accounts "ROD/' which came into effect on January 1, 1987, can be credited with foreign ex- change retained ("ROD" accounts) against exports in convertible currencies.8 An enterprise's retention quota is determined by the MFER in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. According to a decree of the Council of Ministers of March 1988, the authorities are planning to intro- duce, by 1990, five commodity-specific uniform re- tention rates, ranging from 10 percent to 50 percent. The new rates are to depend on the degree of pro- cessing of the exports involved instead of on the degree of import intensity of an enterprise's exports as in the past. As from June 1988, one uniform rate has applied to electronic exports. Until the com- modity structure for the uniform rates is fully estab- lished, enterprises are subject to the existing indi- vidual retention rates. The retention rate for joint ventures is 85 percent under the provisions of the 1988 Law on Economic Activity with Participation of Foreign Parties. Account holders may use the funds freely to pur- chase production-related and investment goods im- ported from the convertible currency area, either for their own use or for that of cooperating enterprises; to make certain specified debt service payments; to pay for patents; and to purchase goods produced domestically subject to the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations; and to pay for busi- ness trips and to cover marketing expenses. The funds cannot be used for settlement between indi- viduals, but they may be offered for sale at periodic 8During 1982-86, claims on ROD accounts were (with few exceptions) not the property of the enterprise. It represented priority rights to purchase foreign exchange up to a specified proportion of the foreign exchange earned from an enterprise's sale of goods and services to the convertible currency area. Provision was made in 1986-87 for a similar priority rights scheme with respect to foreign exchange earnings in transferable rubles. Retention rights are also authorized for exports to bilat- eral payments agreement countries that are not members of the CMEA. In addition to the ROD accounts available to exporters of most commodities, there are a number of other retention schemes that apply to particular exports or exporters. auctions held by the Export Development Bank. Interest is paid in foreign exchange at the annual rates of 3, 4, and 5 percent, respectively, on one-, two-, and three-year deposits. Deposits on current accounts do not earn interest. (3) Bank PKO deposit certificates are accepted by the Bank PKO, S.A. in convertible currencies. The sources of funds need not be declared. Interest pay- able in foreign currency after each six-month period is earned at the following annual rates: 3, 8, and 9 percent, respectively, on one-, two-, and three- year deposits. The deposit certificates are issued in U.S. dollars in denominations of US$100 and US$500.9 (4) Accounts "S" can be credited with socialist country currencies derived from wages, property sales, inheritances, etc., and with transfers from other accounts "S." Funds in these accounts are freely transferable abroad (to other socialist coun- tries) and may be freely withdrawn in any socialist country currency, with conversion effected at the national currency rates quoted by the National Bank of Poland. Deposits of call money earn interest at 3 percent a year, and one-year term deposits earn interest at 4.5 percent a year. Resident individuals and enterprises may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad with the express permission of the National Bank of Poland. Such permission is granted only on "proof of necessity." Nonresident Accounts Nonresident juridical and physical peersons are free to keep both convertible currency and zloty accounts. Use of zloty accounts requires the permis- sion of the National Bank of Poland. (1) Nonresidents may maintain convertible cur- rency accounts (accounts "C") at the National Bank of Poland, the Bank Handlowy, and the Bank PKO, S.A. These accounts can be credited with funds brought or transferred into Poland, with transfers from other accounts "C," and with convertible cur- rency amounts legally acquired in Poland. Deposits are freely transferable abroad, and may be used for purchases from hard currency stores and to make gifts to residents. The funds earn interest in foreign currency. Interest rates on accounts "C" of physical persons are fixed by banks and are paid at an annual 9These deposit certificates are distinct from Bank PKO cou- pons, which can be used to buy "internal exports" in hard cur- rency stores and other designated sales outlets. Since Novem- ber 1, 1987, the Bank PKO, S.A. has offered to convert these coupons into zlotys at a small discount from the exchange rate prevailing in the parallel market. Effective June 16, 1988, the Bank PKO, S.A. stood ready to sell (buy) these coupons to (from) Polish residents in return for zlotys, also at rates close to the parallel market exchange rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 392 POLAND rate in the range of 3 percent to 5 percent for de- mand deposits, and in the range of 7 percent to 11 percent for term deposits (depending on the account currency, the time limit, and the rates on international money markets). Interest rates on ac- counts "C" of juridical persons are fixed at the same rates, except demand deposits, which do not earn interest. (2) Nonresidents are free to open and hold zloty accounts. Depositors may be asked to declare the source of the zlotys when making deposits into such accounts. This declaration requirement aims to ensure that payments into the accounts result from contracts or other operations that comply with the provisions of the foreign exchange law. Drawings on a zloty account require a foreign exchange permit, which is normally granted without restrictions for any internal disbursements. Apart from zlotys le- gally earned in Poland, these accounts may also be credited with foreign exchange converted to zlotys at the current exchange rate. Permits for conversion back to foreign exchange or for foreign exchange transfers abroad are normally granted. These ac- counts do not pay interest; however, nonresidents may also deposit their earnings on savings bank books, on which interest is paid. Deposits on zloty accounts may be transferred to other nonresidents or residents. Such transfers require a foreign ex- change permit, except gifts for residents. Permits for transfers to nonresidents are granted only for transfers to family members. Permits for transfers to residents are granted without any restriction. Imports and Exports All imports and exports are subject to a licensing requirement. Licenses are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations or by its "full-powers" agent employed by the economic unit applying for the license. The customs authority issues licenses not exceeding Zl 100,000 in value for gifts and sou- venirs. Only economic units with permanent trad- ing rights are eligible to have a licensing agent of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations in residence. Since July 1,1988, there are two types of licenses: general and individual licenses. (Previously, there were only individual licenses.) General licenses ap- ply to an estimated 80 percent of exports and im- ports (in value terms). Eligible items include all imports and exports that are centrally balanced, transactions under long-term cooperation agree- ments, imports for re-exports, imports needed for production financed by ROD (enterprises) ac- counts, raw material imports for export production, imports for internal export, and all non-centrally- balanced exports in convertible currencies that are settled in cash. Individual licenses apply to an esti- mated 20 percent of exports and imports and cover special transactions, such as those settled on credit terms, barter transactions, transactions under bilat- eral agreement, leasing, or where general licenses are denied. These licenses are issued by the Minis- try of Foreign Economic Relations or by those for- eign trade enterprises to whom this Ministry dele- gates authority. General licenses are normally issued for a period of one year but may be issued for a period up to three years in appropriate cases. These licenses are issued to most foreign trade enterprises and units engaged in foreign trade, except very small units that are engaged in a wide range of products. The license stipulates the list of permissible products and applicable limits (in terms of quantity and value) in the case of centrally balanced exports and imports; no additional licenses are required if the limits are exceeded by less than 5 perrcent. For non- centrally-balanced transactions, the requirement depends on the items in question. For certain con- sumption items no limits are required. For inter- mediate products, estimates of domestic demand that should be met are provided as a guideline. The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations must render its decision on the issuance of a license within ten days after an application is filed. No fur ther license from the foreign exchange authority is required for export or import and the perfor- mance or use of related services. Trade in certain goods is prohibited for social reasons under the penal code. Individual licenses are readily granted at no cost, provided that the relevant regulations are observed and that the transactions are in line with national plan allocations. Contracts do not become valid, nor may payment orders be drawn, until a license has been issued, except for intergovernmental agree- ments and instantaneous contracts, such as those made on a metals exchange. A license application must be filed with the appropriate authority within seven days af ter agreement on a contract is reached. A license remains valid until the final delivery date for the goods, or until the date of final payment; in specific cases, the validity period of a license may be extended. For data collection purposes, the eco- nomic unit must forward a general authorization and a license to the Foreign Trade Information Cen- ter within two days of their respective issuance; the documents are returned to the units within ten days of their registration by the Center. On the basis of the registered documents and the utilization rec- ords that the units are required to keep, the customs ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 393 administration monitors whether goods are traded according to valid documents. It also has the au- thority to inspect all relevant documents and to issue instructions for eliminating irregularities. In the event of changes in the contracted provi- sions, the economic unit must notify the relevant authorities (the Ministry of Foreign Economic Rela- tions or its agent, and the Information Center) of the necessary changes in the license within seven days of receipt of the documentation, stating the reason for the changes. In the event of a change of more than 5 percent in the foreign currency price, or mistakes or errors in data, a new license must be issued, which automatically and simultaneously re- scinds the former version. If a license is not fully utilized, the economic unit must declare this to the appropriate authorities within 14 days a f ter con- firmation of this fact. Such a declaration is not re- quired if the underutilization amounts to less than Zl 50,000, or does not exceed 5 percent of the price or volume stated in the license. Settlement in for- eign exchange is authorized and effected upon re- ceipt, and according to the terms, of valid docu- ments for settlement. There are no import quotas. Foreign exchange allocation plans, which are prepared by the Plan- ning Commission in consultation with the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, Ministry of Finance, and the National Bank of Poland, are approved by the Council of Ministers on an annual basis. The annual plan determines import needs by com- modity groupings and value for centrally financed imports. These are balanced against financing ac- cording to priorities, with raw and intermediate products being the most important. For de- centralized imports, the annual plan specifies the global ceiling. In 1988, about 62 percent of convert- ible currency imports were financed centrally; these imports, largely intermediate products purchased in line with the needs of the annual plan, are dis- tributed to the enterprises by the State. Total enter- prise accounts financed about 28 percent of imports (of which ROD accounts accounted for 19 percent), and special targeted auctions financed about 4 per- cent of imports, usually of specified commodities. A portion of the remaining foreign exchange available jfor imports was allocated (under the control of branch ministries) for enterprise needs related to government contracts and operational programs. Separately, the branch ministries are in control of exchange for their own requirements. Under the 1988 foreign exchange allocation plan, two targeted auctions of foreign exchange were in- troduced to expand the scope for the decentralized financing of imports: (1) auctions of a specified pool of foreign exchange to nonexporting producers for importation of 23 specified commodities; and (2) auctions of a specified amount of earnings from internal exports of state-run hard currency outlets for domestic trading organizations having no direct access to foreign exchange. In general, residents may import reasonable quantities of goods for noncommercial use free of customs duty. Quantity limits may be set on a product-by-product basis. There are some special regulations pertaining to border trade with the U.S.S.R. Certain imports and exports are subject to taxes and levies and subsidies in connection with the Equalization Settlement System (see below). The subsidy rates for agricultural exports to the non- ruble and ruble areas are 20 percent and 50 percent, respectively. Other than in this connection, there are no direct taxes on exports. Imports are subject to stamp duties and turnover taxes at rates similar to those on domestic goods. Exports are free from turnover taxes. Duties and turnover taxes on im- ports for export production are refunded. Economic units are entitled to relief from income tax and the tax on excessive wage increases based on the value of their exports. Rates of relief are set annually by the Minister of Finance. Most trade with CMEA member countries, Al- bania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is conducted under bilateral trade and pay- ments agreements negotiated annually within the framework of five-year bilateral trade and payments agreements. Imports from these countries may be exempted from customs duties. An Equalization Settlement System (ESS) applies to exports and imports of commodities for which domestic prices are set by the Government —i.e., which are subject to "administrative" pricing, and where the established administrative price differs from the external transaction price; the latter price is equal to the price expressed in foreign exchange converted to zlotys at the exchange rate quoted by the National Bank of Poland. To compensate for these price differentials, the ESS, which is operated under the authority of the Ministry of Foreign Eco- nomic Relations, credits or debits the relevant eco- nomic unit with an equalization amount. All goods for which there are official (government-set) prices are subject to the system, although the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations has the right to delete products from the list. On a case-by-case basis, the system is also applied to goods subject to contract prices, with the decision whether to do so being negotiated between the Ministry of Foreign Eco- nomic Relations and the economic unit concerned. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 394 POLAND Unless specifically exempted, all foreign currency receipts from exports must be declared, repatriated, and surrendered to the Polish foreign exchange banks. Exchange received under contractual pay- ment terms must be surrendered immediately; other exchange must be surrendered within one month of its receipt. Nonresidents may take out of Poland, free of customs duty, souvenirs not exceeding Zl 2,000 in value. However, they may export goods bought in hard currency stores up to the value of foreign cur- rencies declared at the point of first entry and ad- justed for reasonable living expenses. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisible expenses arising from mer- chandise transactions, including insurance and transportation costs, are permitted freely if related to trade transactions fulfilling licensing require- ments. All other invisible transactions are carried out under either a general or an individual permit. Foreign exchange for such payments is made avail- able automatically once the transaction has been authorized. In principle, permission for tourist travel to coun- tries other than members of the CMEA, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is granted only if means of support abroad is assured. This requirement can be met in one of the following ways: (1) living expenses while abroad are covered by nonresidents; (2) living expenses while abroad are covered from the resident's own funds in a resi- dent account in foreign convertible currencies or, in special cases, from an allowance obtained from the National Bank of Poland; and (3) travel is with an authorized tourist group. Travelers use the funds in their account "A." Effective December 1,1988, trav- elers may take out of Poland US$500 without official permission. In special cases, foreign currency travel al- lowances may be granted by the National Bank of Poland for travel to convertible currency countries. These allowances are subject to a 200 percent for- eign exchange tax. For official and business travel, separate allowances are established by the Ministry of Finance to reflect reasonable costs. Nonresident travelers to Poland are expected to fulfill minimum living expenses by converting a required amount of foreign exchange (equivalent to US$15 per day) into zlotys. When leaving Poland, tourists from convertible currency area countries can reconvert zlotys up to the equivalent brought into Poland, provided the amount is not more than the amount originally converted into zlotys less the required conversion amounts. Without a permit from the foreign exchange authority, residents may bring into or take out of the country domestic cur- rency in an amount not exceeding Zl 10,000 a per- son, of which the largest permissible banknote is Zl 5,000 and the largest permissible coin is Zl 50. Non- residents from CMEA countries may bring into or take out of the country zlotys up to the amount certified by their domestic banks. Special exchange regulations apply to invisible transactions with CMEA countries: residents visit- ing CMEA countries are entitled to an allowance of Zl 80,000 a person every two years, and one half of this amount for each child up to the age of 7 years. In addition, funds in accounts "S" may be used. A portion of the travel allowance may be given in the currency of the country to be visited in amounts determined by that country's regulations. For the rest, travelers must acquire traveler's checks in the currency of destination. All conversions are effected with a 30 percent surcharge. Under certain circumstances, foreign exchange may be made available for study abroad. Students' living expenses and tuition fees abroad must be covered by scholarships or financial support from nonresident relatives. Transfers abroad by nonresi- dent workers in Poland, other than in the context of employment in joint ventures, are determined on the basis of agreements between domestic and for- eign institutions or enterprises. Nonresident em- ployees of joint ventures may transfer abroad up to 50 percent of their income. Profits on direct investment by nonresidents, other than those from joint ventures, can be trans- ferred abroad up to a maximum annual amount of 10 percent of invested capital. If the investment yields a convertible currency export-to-import sur- plus in any fiscal year, up to 50 percent of the sur- plus can be transferred abroad, provided the trans- fer does not exceed 50 percent of net profit after taxes. The Minister of Finance may permit a transfer in excess of 50 percent of the surplus. On liquida- tion, the investor can transfer abroad the proceeds from the sale of the remaining assets sold in foreign currency. For joint ventures incorporated under the 1988 Law on Economic Activity with Participation of Foreign Parties, there are no limits on the transfer abroad by nonresidents of profits accruing from export proceeds net of import costs. Capital Parliament annually sets an upper limit on Po- land's permissible external indebtedness. Within this limit, foreign borrowing takes place on the basis of intergovernmental agreements and in various forms of bank and commercial credits. Under the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 395 provisions of the banking law, the National Bank of Poland, Bank Handlowy, Bank PKO, S.A., and the Export Development Bank are empowered to bor- row abroad, on short to long term, and to extend foreign credits. The Minister of Finance sets limits on the foreign borrowing of the banks. With approval from the Minister of Finance, so- cialized enterprises may take financial loans from foreign banks. Subject to approval by the Minister of Foreign Economic Relations, in consultation with the Minister of Finance, socialized enterprises are allowed commercial credits granted by foreign banks or suppliers to finance imports. To borrow abroad, a socialized enterprise also requires the consent of the domestic bank that holds its basic account. The Government has established general direc- tives for extending commercial credits relating to foreign trade activities. Socialized enterprises may extend such credits only with approval from the Minister of Foreign Economic Relations, who pre- scribes the contractual conditions in each case. Ne- gotiable export documents are discountable by for- eign banks. Direct foreign investment in Poland is allowed in the field of small-scale industry under the law of July 6, 1982. A permit is required from the chief administrative office ("voivodship") of the area where the investment is to be located. The permit, which is valid for up to 20 years, is issued after the investor has lodged a "founding deposit" in con- vertible currency with the Bank PKO, S.A. in an amount equivalent to US$50,000. A foreign investor is obliged to import inputs in kind in the form of machinery and equipment, materials, technology, etc. The value of such goods cannot be lower than the minimum founding deposit, which yields inter- est according to the normal bank rate for accounts "C" and can be withdrawn after certification by the voivodship office that the investment project is complete. Upon liquidation of investment, a foreign investor can transfer abroad the proceeds from the sale of assets sold in foreign currency. A nonresident investor in a small-scale industry can obtain zloty credits from the Bank PKO, S.A. for the financing of both current production destined for the domestic market and for exports and invest- ment outlays associated with such production; such credits cannot exceed 30 percent of working capital for current production. Investment credits are lim- ited to a maximum of 30 percent of the estimated cost of the project for investments. A nonresident investor is exempt from income tax payments for three years, provided that one third of the tax lia- bility is invested in Poland. The maximum tax rate for nonresident investors is 80 percent, but tax al- lowances are granted if production is directed to final domestic consumption or for export, as well as when new investment projects are undertaken. In the latter case, allowances of up to 50 percent of the cost of the project may be granted. In practice, the effective tax rate has averaged 60-65 percent of in- come. For export production, the investor receives the general exemption from custom duties on im- ports related to such production. Under the 1986 Law on Companies with Foreign Capital Participation, direct investment by nonresi- dents is also allowed in all but a few sectors (e.g., defense) in the form of joint ventures with local firms.10 The maximum tax rate on a joint venture is 50 percent, and rates as low as 10 percent may be applied, depending on the share of exports in total production. Joint ventures also enjoy an initial tax holiday of two years. Foreign investment by residents, either to estab- lish subsidiaries or affiliates, or to acquire an inter- est in a foreign enterprise, must be approved by the relevant Minister, as well as by the Minister of Fi- nance in his capacity as the foreign exchange authority. All categories of capital transfers, including gifts, by resident natural persons require a foreign ex- change permit. However, for certain categories, such as inheritances, transfers are authorized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other countries. An annual limit of Zl 1 million is applied to all capital transfers. Emigrants to other countries must obtain an individual permit from the National Bank of Poland to take out their convertible currency deposits with domestic banks. Other financial as- sets may be deposited in a nonresident zloty account. Except in the form of an inheritance, nonresi- dents may acquire real estate or other immovable property in Poland only with the permission of the foreign exchange authority. Gold Resident individuals may hold gold in any form. Trading in gold, other than jewelry, is subject to permission from the foreign exchange authorities. 10This law was superseded on December 23, 1988 by the Law on Economic Activity with Participation of Foreign Parties, which became effective January 1, 1989. Under the 1988 law, the max- imum tax rate is 40 percent, the initial tax holiday period is extended to three years, and the tax holiday for joint ventures in preferential sectors can be extended at the discretion of the Council of Ministers by up to an additional three years. The retention rate under ROD accounts for joint ventures is set at 85 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 396 POLAND Only one enterprise, Jubiler, has general permission to buy and sell in gold in any form. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement February 1. The external value of the zloty in terms of the U.S. dollar was adjusted from Zl 320 - US$1 to Zl 380 = US$1. (In the course of the year, fur ther small adjustments were made, resulting in the rate of Zl 502.55 = US$1 at the end of 1988.) Administration of Control January 1. Eligibility requirements of economic units for the right to engage in foreign trade were eased, including a lowering of the required mini- mum share of exports in total production. Resident and Nonresident Accounts January 11. A decree of the Council of Ministers was adopted, which will introduce by 1990 five commodity-specific, uniform retention rates (rang- ing from 10 percent to 50 percent) for foreign ex- change retained under ROD accounts, replacing some 1,000 different retention rates that are enterprise-specific. (On June 1988, one uniform rate was introduced for electronic exports.) July 1. Scope for use of foreign exchange retained under ROD accounts was expanded to include travel abroad for export promotion and import pro- curement. The conditions for transfers among en- terprises of amounts retained under ROD accounts were eased. July 1. The declaration requirement of the sources of funds was abolished for accounts "A." Accounts "N" were consolidated with accounts "A," resulting in an easing of conditions for the use of funds re- tained under the previous accounts "N." Imports and Exports January 1. The export subsidy system was sim- plified, through introduction of flat rates of sub- sidies for agricultural exports to the nonruble area of 20 percent and to the ruble area of 50 percent. May 10. Under the 1988 foreign exchange alloca- tion plan, two targeted auctions of foreign exchange were introduced to expand the scope for de- centralized financing of imports. These included (1) auctions of a specified pool of foreign exchange to nonexporting producers for importation of 23 specified commodities; and (2) auctions of a spec- ified amount of earnings from internal exports of state-run hard currency outlets for domestic trading organizations having no direct access to foreign exchange. June 16. Dollar-denominated coupons used for purchases from hard currency outlets began to be sold and bought for local currency through the banking system at a market-based rate. July 1. The system of export and import licensing was simplified, to permit application of general li- censes (instead of specific licenses) for an estimated 80 percent of exports and imports in value terms; individual licenses will apply to the remaining 20 percent. July 1. The system of export subsidies was further simplified through introduction of uniform rates of subsidies (ranging from 5 percent to 25 percent) for nonagricultural exports to the nonruble area. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles December 1. Travelers were allowed to take out of Poland US$500 (or the equivalent in other curren- cies) without official permission. Capital December 23. The 1988 Law on Economic Activity with the Participation of Foreign Parties was passed. The law, which became effective on January 1,1989, replaced the 1986 Law on Companies with Foreign Capital Participation and provided for more liberal financial terms than the previous law for foreign partners in joint ventures. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese Es- cudo, the exchange rate of which is adjusted monthly1 in relation to a basket of currencies, weighted according to their importance in Portu- gal's international merchandise trade. Depreciation objectives for the effective exchange rate of the es- cudo are announced periodically by the authorities. During 1988, the monthly rate of devaluation was 0.4 percent in the first quarter, 0.3 percent in the second, and 0.25 percent in the third; it was further lowered in the fourth quarter in order to reach an annual rate of depreciation of 3.5 percent. Throughout 1987 the monthly rate of depreciation was 0.5 percent to 0.2 percent a month, and the effective exchange rate declined by 3.5 percent on average over the year against the basket of curren- cies. On December 30, 1988, the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Esc 146.11 and Esc 146.63, respectively, per US$1. Official exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other currencies2 are determined during the fixing ses- sion, in which the Bank of Portugal and the autho- rized banks participate. There is a fee of 0.9 percent on all sales of foreign exchange. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar at a parity rate of P 1.03 = HK$1. Commercial banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal, among themselves, with other domestic nonbank economic agents, and with banks abroad. Foreign exchange transactions of commercial banks with the Bank of Portugal are, in principle, limited to the spot market. Spot or for- ward foreign exchange operations are carried out at freely negotiated exchange rates between commer- cial banks and their customers. The forward foreign exchange market began to operate in February 1987. Commercial banks are allowed to conduct forward transactions for periods of up to one year. Foreign exchange operations between banks and nonbank economic agents are always linked to purchases or sales of foreign exchange with escudos as a result of imports or exports of goods, services, current invis- 1 Since 1977, except from December 1985 to April 1986. 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, the ECU, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Italian lire, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and Macao patacas. ibles, or capital movements. There are no restric- tions on foreign exchange deals among banks in Portugal and banks abroad except forward pur- chases of escudos from nonresidents, which are not authorized. There are no restrictions on foreign ex- change deals in the interbank foreign exchange market. The degree of foreign exchange risks that banks are authorized to take must fall within the limits established by the Bank of Portugal for the foreign exchange positions of banks in terms of for- eign currencies. On January 1, 1988, the Bank of Portugal became a participant in the European Monetary Coopera- tion Fund (EMCF), enabling it to participate in the mechanism for the creation of official ECUs through swaps of 20 percent of its gold and dollar reserves. These swaps are renewable every three months so as to ensure that contributions to EMCF represent at least 20 percent of the reserves of the Bank of Portugal. Portugal formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from September 12, 1988. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, with the assistance of the commercial banks autho- rized for this purpose. Foreign trade policy is formulated and imple- mented by the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism; for statistical purposes, imports are subject to prior registration with the Ministry. The Director-General of Foreign Commerce in this Ministry is responsible for administering trade controls. Import declara- tions are issued by a department within the Direc- torate General of Foreign Commerce or by other authorized executive departments. Prescription of Currency Transactions with Turkey are settled on a monthly basis through a clearing account maintained in U.S. dollars. Export transactions with other countries may be settled from a nonresident account with a resident bank in the quoted currencies (see foot- note 2) or in U.S. dollars. Payments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account. The Portuguese escudo may be accepted as currency of settlement for exports of goods, ser- vices, and capital transfers to Portugal. 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 398 PORTUGAL Nonresident Accounts In 1988, the Bank of Portugal issued new regula- tions concerning nonresident accounts in escudos and in foreign currencies. It also introduced changes in regulations concerning emigrants' deposits. 1. Nonresident Accounts in Escudos The opening of nonresident accounts in escudos is free. They must be non-interest-bearing demand accounts, and exceptions must be especially autho- rized by the Bank of Portugal. Nonresident accounts in escudos may be cred- ited, without prior authorization of the Bank of Por- tugal, with: (1) the amount of escudos correspond- ing to transfers from abroad or sales of foreign currency and other means of payments denomi- nated in foreign currencies; (2) the amount of es- cudos corresponding to payments to nonresidents of Portuguese imports of goods and services as well as outflows of private capital duly authorized by current legislation; and (3) transfers from other non- resident accounts in escudos. Nonresident accounts in escudos may be debited, without prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal, for (1) transfers abroad resulting from the purchase of foreign currency with escudos; (2) payments to residents for Portuguese exports of goods, services, current invisibles, and private capital outflows, duly authorized by current legislation; and (3) transfers to other nonresident accounts in es- cudos. For all other debit and credit operations, the authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of overdrafts on the accounts described above requires the authori- zation of the Bank of Portugal. 2. Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currency Opening and transactions of nonresident ac- counts in foreign currency —demand accounts and time accounts up to one year —are subject to restric- tion. Time accounts of more than one year require special authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Inter- est rates are freely negotiable. Accounts may be denominated in any foreign currency acceptable to the banks. 3. Emigrants' Accounts Portuguese emigrants may open three types of deposit accounts: emigrants' savings accounts (time account in escudos); joint accounts with residents (deposit or time accounts in escudos); and time deposit accounts in foreign currency. a. Emigrants' savings account may be credited with remittances from abroad received through the banking system or in the form of an international postal order, with the equivalent in escudos of exter- nal means of payment sold to credit institutions by emigrants, with transfers from other accounts of the same owner (emigrants' savings accounts or ac- counts in foreign currency), and with interest due on such deposits. These accounts may be debited without restriction. b. Joint accounts with residents are similar to resi- dents' deposit accounts and can be in the form of either demand or time deposits. These accounts may be credited with funds from abroad (similar to crediting emigrants' savings deposits) or with funds from domestic sources. These accounts may be debited without restriction, except transfers to emigrants' savings accounts or abroad. Transfers abroad are subject to the regulations that apply to current transfers. c. Time deposit accounts in foreign currencies may be credited with remittances from abroad, with sales of external means of payment by emigrants, and with transfers from other accounts in foreign cur- rency of the same owner and with interest due. These accounts may be debited without restriction. Interest income from all types of emigrants' de- posits is subject to a tax at the rate of 3.3 percent a year. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Opening of resident accounts in foreign currency requires special authorization of the Bank of Portu- gal, unless the holder is a bank. Without prior au- thorization, commercial banks may open, at home or abroad, demand accounts or time accounts up to one year in any currency at freely negotiated inter- est rates. Imports and Import Payments Prior registration is required for all imports valued at over Esc 150,000. Import declarations serve statis- tical purposes, and they are granted automatically in four to five days. Imports of certain products are prohibited or are allowed only under specific condi- tions, mainly for reasons of health, public order, and the prevention of commercial fraud. Any physical or juridical entity may be an importer. Most imports from all sources are effected on the basis of import declarations. For imports free of quantitative restriction, the importer is required to present the import contract and Form 8 of EC Single Customs Declaration to obtain the foreign exchange necessary to settle the contract. For agricultural products covered by a common market organiza- tion, an import certificate may be required as deter- mined by this organization. For imports subject to quantitative restrictions, an import license is re- quired. The validity of the import declaration is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 399 6 months for customs clearance purposes, and the settlement period is 12 months. Payments beyond 12 months after customs clearance require the ap- proval of the Bank of Portugal. According to the Act of Accession of Portugal to the European Communities (EC), imports of some agricultural products are subject to temporary re- strictions when originating in EC and third coun- tries. As regards other industrial products, there is a list of 15 products (including automobiles) that are subject to quantitative restrictions only when orig- inating in third countries. A more extensive re- stricted list applies to Japan, which includes man- ufactured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, including motorcycles. Payments for Invisibles Payments to foreign countries for current invis- ibles must be made through credit institutions au- thorized to operate in foreign exchange and are generally free of quantitative restrictions, although prior verification by the Bank of Portugal or other credit institutions properly authorized is required. For most transactions, ceilings are specified for the amounts of foreign exchange that authorized credit institutions may grant freely. For payments to countries with which Portugal does not maintain special clearing arrangements, the authorized credit institutions may grant foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Esc 7.5 million a transaction for most types of invisibles. For tourism and other private travel (except for business trips and for study or medical treatment purposes, which are not subject to limits when duly evidenced), they may grant the equivalent of Esc 150,000 a person a trip. In addition, tourists may take out of the coun- try Esc 50,000 in local currency for each trip.3 The export of larger amounts of domestic or foreign currency requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Applications must be submitted to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Under the provisions of the Foreign Investment Code, individual remittances of profits and divi- dends and the repatriation of proceeds of liquida- tion of direct foreign investment in Portugal are free 3The use of credit cards abroad has been liberalized since Jan- uary 2, 1986. However, legislation in force envisages the pos- sibility of reimposing restrictions by the Bank of Portugal when- ever deemed necessary. Also, payments of travel and accommodation expenses abroad for tourism purposes have been liberalized, if paid through a Portuguese travel agency. of restrictions, although prior declaration to the Bank of Portugal is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports, which are not subject to quantitative restrictions under EC regulations, are free of restric- tions. The export of some textiles is subject to ad- ministrative cooperation with EC countries for a period of two years. The export of a few com- modities may be restricted, mainly to ensure ade- quate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. These exports require an export license, as is the case for iron scraps. Exports without concomitant foreign exchange in- flow require prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank the total amount of the export proceeds within specified periods. The period for settlement of mer- chandise exports is, as a rule, fixed at six months from the date of customs clearance. Payment of commission expenses abroad and freight, insur- ance, or other charges is subject to the regulations that govern payments for invisibles. Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may freely receive pay- ments in escudos and in foreign currency for invis- ibles from residents of countries with which Portu- gal does not have special clearing arrangements. Such receipts may be effected through credit in- stitutions and do not require prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal. Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Authorized banks are not permit- ted to receive or to pay domestic or foreign bank notes or coin for settlement of external transactions. There are no limits on the amount of domestic currency notes resident and nonresident travelers may bring into the country. Capital As from January 1, 1986, the effective date of accession to the EC, foreign exchange regulations distinguish between capital transactions with resi- dents of EC member countries and residents of non- EC member countries, although in most cases the distinction is not relevant in practice. Most pay- ments will be free of restrictions after a transitional period of four to seven years, depending on the type of transaction. Foreign direct investments in Portu- gal are permitted in all sectors except those which, under the general law, are closed to private enter- prise corporations. Since July 1986, the new foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 400 PORTUGAL investment regulations stipulate that new direct in- vestment projects are subject only to prior declara- tion to the Foreign Investment Institute, and will be considered approved in the absence of a reply from the Institute within 60 days. However, foreign direct investment in the form of long-term loans is subject to a prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal. In both cases, in 1988 new foreign direct investment by EC residents of less than ECU 2.1 million was auto- matically approved, and this amount will be in- creased by ECU 0.3 million a year until 1990 when foreign direct investments will be free of restric- tions. The transfer of the proceeds of liquidation of foreign direct investment including capital gains is free of restrictions. Foreign direct investments in EC countries by Portuguese residents require special authorization until 1993, when they will be free of restrictions. However, since November 1988, investments in EC and other member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) are liberalized up to Esc 20 million and Esc 10 mil- lion, respectively. Purchases of real estate in Portugal are free of restrictions since January 1, 1986, except housing already built and land for agricultural purposes, which are subject to a special authorization by the Bank of Portugal until 1991. The transfer of the proceeds of their liquidation was free of restrictions up to ECU 140,000 in 1988, and it will be increased by ECU 20,000 a year until 1991. Purchases of real estate in EC countries by Por- tuguese residents will be free of restrictions as of 1993. Purchases by nonresidents of domestic se- curities quoted in the stock exchange have been free of restrictions since January 1, 1986. Purchases by Portuguese residents of securities quoted in the stock exchange and issued by EC residents will remain subject to a special authorization of the Bank of Portugal until 1991. However, investment funds are, in principle, allowed to be invested in foreign securities listed in stock exchanges of OECD mem- ber countries up to 10 percent of their portfolio. Subscription of securities issued by the European Investment Bank, the European Economic Com- munity (EEC), the European Atomic Energy Com- munity (EURATOM), and the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) was free of restrictions up to ECU 21 million in 1988, and it will be increased by ECU 3 million a year until 1991, when such pur- chases become free of restrictions. Most trade credits and personal capital move- ments have also been free of restrictions since Jan- uary 1, 1986. The remaining transactions continue to be subject to prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal and, in the case of loans exceeding Esc 800 million and with a maturity of more than one year, approval of the Minister of Finance is also required. The revisions of Portugal's reservations concern- ing the OECD Code of Liberalization of Capital Movements have generally extended liberalization of capital transactions with the OECD countries, which is similar to that extended to the EC member countries. Gold Residents may hold gold in any form in Portugal. The purchase, sale, import, export, or re-export of bullion or coined and unworked gold, when carried out between Portugal and foreign countries, is sub- ject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal. There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and nonresidents who are not resident in Portugal may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement January 1. Portugal became a member of the EMCF and a participant in the mechanism for the creation of official ECUs. September 12. Portugal formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Prescription of Currency December 17. The Portuguese escudo was permit- ted to be accepted as currency of settlement for exports of goods, services, and capital transfers to Portugal. Nonresident Accounts November 30. The regulations on opening and op- erating demand accounts of nonresidents in es- cudos were liberalized. Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of antidumping duties, countervailing charges, and import sur- veillance measures introduced or eliminated by the European Economic Community during 1988, page 561.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Qatar is the Qatar Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 = SDR 1. Qatar has established margins of 7.25 percent around this rate. The Qatar Monetary Agency sets daily market rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and the pound sterling. On December 31,1988, the buying and selling rates for the Qatar riyal in terms of the U.S. dollar were QR 3.6385 and QR 3.6415, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks' exchange rates for trans- actions in U.S. dollars are based on the Monetary Agency's buying and selling rates. A spread of QR 0.87 is applied to exchange transactions with the public. The commercial banks' buying and selling rates for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for the U.S. dollar and market rates for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official banking sector. In the commercial banking sector, importers may purchase foreign ex- change in the forward market. Qatar formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, with effect from June 4, 1973. Administration of Control The Qatar Monetary Agency is the exchange con- trol authority, but there is at present no exchange control legislation. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency re- quirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Also prohibited are imports of pork and its derivatives. Imports of alcoholic beverages, fire- arms, ammunition, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health or public policy. Oth- erwise, imports are not restricted. There are no restrictions on payments for permitted imports. Im- ports of general goods are subject to a customs duty at the rate of 4.0 percent, which is the minimum rate applied by member countries of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Otherwise, all commodities may be ex- ported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the cur- rency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Otherwise, there are no limitations on payments for and proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents, although payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Foreign participation in small- and medium-scale agri- cultural and industrial enterprises with invested capital of less than QR 250,000 is prohibited. For- eign participation in large-scale enterprises requires Qatar nationals to control at least 51 percent of capi- tal unless the enterprise is viewed as facilitating the provision of a public service, in which case the Qatari participation requirement may be waived. In addition to this requirement, the enterprise must have a domestic value added of at least 40 percent. Foreigners other than nationals of member states of the GCC are prohibited from business ownership in the trade sector. For major industrial projects, it is government policy to assume a minimum of 70 per- cent ownership. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents (including private persons) may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 402 QATAR gold in any form, at home or abroad. For trading purposes, the selling and buying of gold and pre- cious metals are subject to import license and customs duty. Transactions involving Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Romania is the Romanian Leu. The exchange rate used for all trade transactions in convertible currencies is the commercial rate, which is defined in terms of a basket of six currencies reflecting the geographical pattern of Romania's trade and payments. Weekly adjustments are made in the leu/U.S. dollar rate (and, correspondingly, in the rates for all other quoted currencies) in such a way as to maintain the central point on the basket peg. On December 30, 1988, the commercial ex- change rate was lei 14.37 = US$1. The National Bank of Romania quotes rates for 16 other curren- cies defined as "fully convertible"1 and for the Fin- nish markka, the Greek drachma, the Indian rupee, the Israeli new sheqel, the Portuguese escudo, the Spanish peseta, the Turkish lira, and the Yugoslav dinar, based on the rates for these currencies against the U.S. dollar in the countries concerned. For members of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA),2 Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the currency used for commercial transactions is the transferable ruble (TR); on December 30, 1988, the transferable ruble rate was lei 15.50 = TR 1. For exchange rate purposes, payments for insur- ance and transportation connected with trade are considered as trade transactions. The commercial exchange rate applies to all trade and most services transactions, and the noncommercial exchange rate applies to non-trade-related services and transfers, with the exception of travel through tourist organi- zations. Capital transactions are settled at the com- mercial rate. The noncommercial rate is pegged to the same basket of currencies as the commercial rate and is also adjusted on a weekly basis; the rate was lei 8.84 = US$1 on December 30, 1988. For the nontransport component of the expenses for individual travel to nonsocialist countries and Yugoslavia and for certain other expenditures abroad, such as personal subscriptions to periodi- cals and legal penalties, a 100 percent tax is levied Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2The participants in the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. on purchases of foreign exchange. For nontrade transactions with the CMEA countries, Albania, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, spe- cial exchange rates are established by multilateral or bilateral agreement; for transactions with the U.S.S.R., this rate is lei 8.30 per rub 1. For persons working abroad in technical assis- tance jobs or as professionals, such as medical doc- tors, daily allowances are paid in foreign exchange, and any accumulated surpluses can be converted into lei at the noncommercial exchange rate. Roma- nians working in international organizations or joint ventures, as well as those occasionally receiving foreign exchange income, are required to repatriate a part of it as a contribution to the fund for training of staff involved in international cooperation and for the maintenance of their families at home. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export transactions are effected by foreign trade en- terprises and other authorized units. Import and export transactions are subject to authorizations granted by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Inter- national Economic Cooperation. In the issuing of authorizations, the provisions of existing trade agreements are taken into account. Foreign cur- rency proceeds from exports are sold to the Roma- nian Bank for Foreign Trade; foreign currency re- quired for import payments is purchased from that bank. Exchange control is administered by the Min- istry of Finance, the National Bank, and the Roma- nian Bank for Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Ro- mania has bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.3 If no agreement 3The countries with which bilateral payments agreements were in force as of December 31,1988 were Albania, Bangladesh, the People's Republic of China, Colombia, Ghana, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Settlements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam take place through the multilateral pay- ments system within the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 404 ROMANIA exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Certain commercial settlements with Tur- key are made in U.S. dollars under a credit agree- ment. Permitted foreign payments may not be made in lei. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may main- tain accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, the National Bank, or with foreign banks having branch offices in Romania. These accounts are of three kinds. A-Accounts are maintained in convertible currency, or in lei obtained for convert- ible currencies, from the selling of precious metals, coins, or ingots, other than silver. B-Accounts are maintained in nonconvertible currencies quoted by the National Bank, in clearing currency, or in lei received from the conversion of such currencies. Transactions in any individual B-Account may be effected in only one such currency. C-Accounts are maintained in lei received from other legal sources. A-Accounts may be debited for payments abroad in any currency, for payments within the country, and for transfers to any other A-, B-, or C-Account. B-Accounts may be debited for all payments abroad in the currencies from which the funds were de- rived and for payments within Romania. C-Ac- counts may be debited only for domestic transac- tions. The transactions permitted for the different accounts do not require any further authorization. Nonresidents may also keep accounts in lei with the Savings and Consignment Bank. The Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade may accept from nonresi- dent customers time deposits in convertible foreign currencies, on which interest is paid at rates prevail- ing in international markets. Romanian citizens, including Romanians work- ing abroad who transfer their savings to Romania, may open foreign currency accounts with the Roma- nian Bank for Foreign Trade or the National Bank. The deposits may be used for payments in foreign currency, at home or abroad, or for exchange into lei at the noncommercial exchange rate. The entire amount of foreign exchange received from abroad for special purposes for the benefit of Romanian citizens (such as the building or purchasing of a house, the purchase of an automobile, the purchase of other goods or services whose prices are ex- pressed in foreign currency, travel abroad, and other purposes) may be used by the recipients. For certain other foreign exchange receipts from abroad, such as inheritances, donations, assistance, or family maintenance, a proportion may be depos- ited in a foreign currency account and the rest must be converted into lei at the noncommercial ex- change rate. Imports and Exports The administrative framework for planning and executing foreign trade in Romania is provided in the Foreign Trade Law (Law No. 12 of Decem- ber 1980). International economic activity is or- ganized and carried out in accordance with the principle of working people's self-management and self-administration of economic, financial, and foreign exchange. The general policy targets for foreign trade are set at the central level. Import and export plans are drawn up by the basic economic units, production enterprises, and industrial centrals on the basis of current and long-term needs. The foreign trade plan specifies only a limited number of goods considered of particular importance for the national economy, especially raw materials. The total planned trade does not separate importing or exporting countries but distinguishes between the clearing area and the convertible currency area, according to the manner of settlement of exchange payments and receipts. Import and export transactions are carried out on the basis of authorizations issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Coopera- tion for each commodity or group of commodities. The authorizations are not restrictive or discrimina- tory and may be issued, at the request of foreign trade units, for all types of goods, regardless of origin. The Ministry may take measures to curb imports, with a view to equilibrating the balance of payments, for the protection of public health, and for reasons of national defense and the security of the State, etc., in accordance with the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). As a rule, annual import authorizations expressed in value terms are issued to individual importing enterprises as a lump sum or for a single kind of product. The authorization stipulates whether import payments are to be made in con- vertible currency or under bilateral payments ar- rangements, and, in the latter case, the country is also specified. Export proceeds must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Imports for investment in complex installations (assemblies, subassemblies, machinery, equip- ment, and spare parts) are delivered to the buying units at domestic prices that are equal to the customs value (calculated by multiplying the exter- nal price by the commercial rate), plus customs duties. Imports of consumer goods are delivered to the commercial purchasing units at retail prices, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 405 less the commercial discount. The difference be- tween prices so derived and prices calculated on the basis of customs value plus customs duties and, in some cases, the turnover tax, is reflected in the financial accounts of the importing foreign trade unit. Imports are subject to customs duties, although duties are not applied to 121 tariff positions and subpositions. Customs duties are temporarily not being levied on imports of raw materials, assem- blies, subassemblies, and spare parts for produc- tion, repair, and maintenance, totaling about 500 tariff positions and subpositions. The customs tariff is nondiscriminatory. Decree No. 337/1981, issued on November 26,1981, increased tariffs on personal imports of certain items into Romania above the value limits for the specified goods. The import goods prohibited to individuals include passenger cars with high fuel consumption, minibuses, fire- arms, and air conditioners. Customs duties on per- sonal imports of a number of consumer durables, such as motorcycles and electrical appliances, are levied at rates of between 100 percent and 300 per- cent above the applicable customs tar iff. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All transactions in invisibles not connected with foreign trade transactions require general or indi- vidual authorization given by either the Ministry of Finance or another appropriate ministry. For most categories of payments in respect of invisibles, for- eign exchange is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. For travel out- side the socialist countries, an exchange allocation is provided up to the equivalent of US$70 a trip for each adult. In addition, tourist agencies may orga- nize group or individual trips payable in lei. Re- ceipts from transactions in invisibles must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, and the for- eign currency required for payments in respect of such transactions is bought from the same bank. With specified exceptions, travelers with perma- nent residence in nonsocialist countries must con- vert at least US$10 a person a day (or the equivalent in other "acceptable" currencies)4 during their stay in Romania. This requirement does not apply to (1) holders of diplomatic service passports and their 4The acceptable currencies, in addition to the U.S. dollar, are Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Indian rupees, Israeli new sheqalim, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Turkish liras, and Yugoslav dinars. families; (2) newspaper and radio and television correspondents accredited to Romania and their families; (3) persons studying in Romania and their spouses; (4) permanent foreign personnel of foreign firms or agencies authorized to operate in Romania (including joint ventures) and their families; (5) guests of socialist units and of other juridical persons in Romania, as well as of international or- ganizations having their headquarters in Romania; (6) children under 14; (7) teachers visiting Romania under agreements for cultural, technical, and scien- tific cooperation and their families; (8) persons who can be shown to have made payments for tourist services; (9) foreign personnel in assembly work or providing technical assistance in Romania and their families; (10) persons of Romanian origin having foreign citizenship or who are stateless; (11) Ro- manian citizens possessing a valid Romanian pass- port who are domiciled abroad; (12) persons resi- dent abroad without a valid Romanian passport, but who have not renounced their Romanian cit- izenship; and (13) parents, spouses, and children of persons in categories (10)-(12). Foreign diplomats and tourists, as well as Romanian citizens legally holding foreign currencies, may purchase certain domestically produced or imported consumer goods in specialized shops, against payment in con- vertible currencies. Foreign tourists may purchase domestically produced and certain imported con- sumer goods in specialized shops, against payment in convertible currencies. The import and export of Romanian notes and coin by travelers are pro- hibited, with the exception of those coming from CMEA member countries, Albania, and the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea; these latter may each bring in or take out up to lei 500 a trip in accordance with agreements concluded with these countries. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign ex- change must be authorized by the Ministry of Fi- nance. Outward transfers of funds belonging to resident physical persons are not normally permit- ted. For certain established categories, such as in- heritances, reciprocal agreements have been con- cluded with a number of countries providing for automatic authorization of transfers of specified amounts to and from Romania. The Foreign Trade Law provides for the establish- ment of joint ventures in Romania and abroad by Romanian economic organizations. Foreigners are also allowed to invest capital in joint ventures in Romania, up to 49 percent of the total capital of the company concerned. The Foreign Trade Law and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 406 ROMANIA implementing decrees guarantee the repatriation in foreign currency of the capital and the transfer in foreign currency of profits after taxes. By agree- ment, the accounts of joint ventures may be kept in an agreed currency. Bank, in turn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transac- tions. The ownership by physical persons, for do- mestic and personal use, of jewelry and of artistic and cultural objects of gold is not restricted. Gold The National Bank has sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. The Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda Franc, which is pegged to the SDR at RF 102.71 = SDR 1. This fixed relationship is used to determine the mid- point between buying and selling exchange rates quoted by the National Bank of Rwanda (the central bank) for spot delivery of Rwanda francs against the U.S. dollar and other currencies. Calculations of exchange rates against foreign currencies are based on the SDR value of the U.S. dollar and other cur- rencies as published by the International Monetary Fund two business days earlier. On December 31, 1988, the midpoint between the buying and selling rate for spot delivery of Rwanda francs against the U.S. dollar was RF 76.705 per US$1. The buying and selling rates for all currencies are set at 1 percent above and 1 percent below the midpoint, respec- tively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the central bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange and foreign trade policies are, in principle, determined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Committee, con- sisting of the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the National Bank, and five other members; however, this Committee is inoperative at the pres- ent time. Prescription of Currency To facilitate trade and other external transactions, the National Bank maintains agreements with the central banks of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL) (Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire) and Kenya. Under these arrangements, settlements are made through reciprocal accounts in convertible domestic currency; balances on such accounts are periodically transferable. Payments to and from the member countries of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA) (Burundi, the Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Rwanda, Somalia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) are made through the PTA's clear- ing house. Otherwise, payments for imports must be made in the currency approved by the National Bank, which, in principle, is the currency of the country of origin. Payments from any country may be received in Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Foreign payments, except in border trade, are generally made by bank trans- fer; the National Bank may, however, authorize other means of payment, such as checks or tele- graphic transfers. Exchange transactions with South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments On October 1, 1987, a new Tariff Code was pro- mulgated. Imports from South Africa are pro- hibited. For reasons of public security, certain cate- gories of imports, such as explosives and weapons, require prior approval by the competent authorities, regardless of origin and value. Imports of narcotics are prohibited. For reasons of health, the importa- tion of veterinary medicines, disinfectants, insec- ticides, rodent poisons, fungicides, herbicides, and other toxic or potentially toxic chemicals is subject to approval of the pro forma invoices by the Minis- try of Health. All imports valued (c.i.f.) at over RF 100,000 require licenses, as do those valued (c . i .f .) at less than RF 100,000, if payment is required in foreign exchange. Import licenses for 16 items, including cement, butter, cheese, corrugated iron, plastic products, radio sets, blankets, toilet and powdered soap, candles, insecticides, and certain woven fabrics of man-made fibers, have been suspended. The National Bank levies a validation fee of 1 percent of the f .o.b. value on import licenses that involve use of official foreign exchange and on im- port licenses that are subject to inspection by inter- national agencies; the validation fee for fuel is 0.1 percent. The validation of other import licenses is subject to a processing fee of RF 750 in each case. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses must be submitted to the National Bank through an authorized bank. Unless otherwise specified, the approval of an import license applica- tion constitutes an authorization to obtain the re- quired foreign exchange. 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 408 RWANDA The National Bank grants global import licenses for certain essential commodities and for limited amounts to individual firms in order to ensure their continuous operation; these are valid for three months (six months in the case of vehicle parts). License applications are examined at the National Bank to prevent overinvoicing. Dealers in imported automobiles are required to provide after-sale ser- vice for the vehicles. Used automobiles can be im- ported only if they are less than three years old, and the importer has to assure the availability of spare parts. Imports whose f.o.b. value on the pro forma in- voice is greater than RF 1.5 million in the case of ordinary licenses and RF 0.5 million in the case of global licenses are inspected by international agen- cies for quality and quantity in the country of origin1 prior to shipment, and at the same time prices are verified. Import licenses must be presented when the goods are cleared through customs, and a copy of the customs clearance form must be sent to the National Bank. For imports of products originating in member countries of the CEPGL, import licenses are replaced by CEPGL import notices. The Rwanda investment code grants special concessions to enter- prises under a contractual arrangement, which may imply exemption from import duties on certain types of equipment. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the National Bank is re- quired for all payments for invisibles. Foreign ex- change is sold by the National Bank, through the authorized banks, for transport and other expenses (except insurance) connected with imports and ex- ports. Payments in respect of transport charges on imports cannot be made until imported goods have been cleared through customs (except in cases of payment by means of documentary credit payable on loading). Insurance on imports and exports must be taken out locally, with an insurance company established under Rwanda law. Transfers of the salaries and wages earned by foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under con- tract are made net of taxes, net of the employee's share of social security contributions, and after de- duction of local expenses. These expenses are calcu- 1 Except for imports from Afghanistan, Albania, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Chad, People's Republic of China, Com- oros, Djibouti, Gabon, Guinea, Iraq, Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Liberia, Lib- yan Arab Jamahiriya, Mali, Niger, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Syrian Arab Republic, Tanzania, Uganda, U.S.S.R., Viet Nam, Yemen Arab Republic, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Zaire. lated by one of two formulas, at the employee's option: (1) 40 percent of gross monthly pay after tax and social security contributions, with a minimum of RF 50,000 a month; or (2) RF 70,000 a month for a head of household, plus RF 20,000 a month for each dependent in Rwanda. Transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self-employed, whether engaged in a profession or established as independent traders, are also made net of taxes and after deduction for local expenses. A fee of RF 750 is levied for transfer authorizations other than those relating to income (broadly defined) received in Rwanda, for which a fee of 1 percent of the amount to be transferred is charged, with a minimum of RF 750. Net profits and dividends due to nonresi- dents may, in principle, be remitted abroad in full, subject to the right of the National Bank to prescribe their transfer in installments. Only traveler's checks in UAPTA (Unit of Ac- count of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States) are issued to travelers to PTA member States (except Kenya). Foreign ac- count holders traveling in the PTA region may pur- chase foreign media of payment other than trav- eler's checks in UAPTA. Sales of these checks are subject to prevailing exchange regulations. The purchase in domestic currency of tickets for travel abroad requires the prior approval of the Na- tional Bank. Authorizations for the purchase of for- eign exchange for tickets and foreign exchange re- lating to travel for leisure, family, or religious reasons are suspended until further notice. Travel for business and official purposes is restricted to the essential minimum, and foreign residents working in Rwanda are allowed only one economy-class air- line ticket every two years of actual service in Rwanda; more than one trip is permitted only if the total cost of tickets does not exceed that of one full- fare ticket. Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic bank notes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the National Bank to take out foreign bank notes. Com- mercial banks are not permitted to export domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All ex- ports except trade samples, personal and household effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000 are subject to prior declaration. De- clarations for exports must be presented to the Na- tional Bank through an authorized bank for cer- tification, for which a fee of RF 750 is levied. A ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA 409 declaration is valid for three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. Payments for exports to Burundi, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire must be col- lected not later than 30 days after the goods have left the country; this deadline is not applicable to ex- ports under CEPGL export notices, for which there is a quarterly clearing arrangement among the cen- tral banks. The maximum permissible period for repatriation of proceeds from exports to all other countries is 120 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days of their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks within 8 days of their collec- tion. The collection of claims resulting from services performed for nonresidents must take place within 30 days of the due date. Travelers from abroad may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic bank notes and any amount in foreign bank notes. Declaration of means of payment on entering Rwanda is optional. Commercial banks are not permitted to import do- mestic bank notes. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Such approval is rarely granted unless the transfer relates to a foreign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Invest- ment Law or to the personal effects of a foreign national returning to his own country. Enterprises considered to have national economic priority are exempted from the corporation tax for 5 to 15 years. Repatriation of dividends to foreign shareholders is allowed. Repatriation guarantees may be given by the National Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows remaining in Rwanda for at least two months. Outward transfer of proceeds from sales of real estate is suspended. Foreign refinancing of im- ports is subject to guidelines limiting the number of eligible products, establishing a limit of 180 days from the date of shipment on the maturity of the financing, and specifying acceptable interest rates and commissions. Gold Trade in gold is restricted to dealers approved by the competent minister. Imports and exports of gold require licenses. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments February 23. The importation of veterinary medi- cines, disinfectants, insecticides, rodent poisons, fungicides, herbicides, and other toxic or poten- tially toxic chemicals was subject to approval of the pro forma invoices by the Ministry of Health. Payments for Invisibles August 1. Only traveler's checks in UAPTA (Unit of Account of the Preferential Trade Area for East- ern and Southern African States) will be issued to travelers to PTA member States (except Kenya). For- eign account holders traveling in the PTA region may purchase foreign media of payment other than traveler's checks in UAPTA. Sales of these checks are subject to prevailing exchange regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Kitts and Nevis is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB) and is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1988, the buy- ing and selling rates were EC$2.69 and EC$2.71, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound ster- ling. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. St. Kitts and Nevis formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 3, 1984. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of ECCB countries must be effected in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Foreign Currency Accounts U.S. dollar currency accounts may be operated freely, but permission of the Ministry of Finance is required to operate other foreign currency ac- counts; such permission is normally confined to major exporters and foreign nationals not ordinarily residing in St. Kitts and Nevis. These accounts can only be credited with foreign currency earned or received from outside St. Kitts and Nevis and can be freely debited. A minimum balance of US$1,000 must be maintained at all times to operate a U.S. dollar currency account. Imports and Import Payments Most goods are imported under open general licenses. Individual licenses are required for im- ports that compete with local products unless they come from another member country of the Carib- bean Common Market (CARicoM).2 Payments for authorized imports payable in U.S. dollars are per- mitted on presentation of documentary evidence of purchase to a bank, but payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar need the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles All settlements overseas require exchange control approval, except where the currency involved is the U.S. dollar, in which case commercial banks are authorized to pay on presentation of documentary evidence. Where the currency involved is not the U.S. dollar, application must be made directly to the Ministry of Finance; authorization is normally granted for certain specific purposes and services. Residents of St. Kitts and Nevis may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$1,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area, subject to presentation of evidence of intention to travel for bona fide purposes. For busi- ness travel, allowances of foreign exchange may be made available up to EC$5,000 a year a company. These allocations can be increased in bona fide cases with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Residents traveling abroad for medical treatment are eligible for an allowance of EC$1,000, which may be raised without any limitation, provided that a medical certificate is presented. There is a 7.5 percent ad valorem tax on all travel tickets. Education allowances are subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. Residents may also make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total value of EC$250 a donor a year. Profits and divi- dends may be remitted in full, subject to confirma- tion of registration by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue for income tax purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any destination. Export proceeds must be deposited into an ECCB Currency Account or an approved U.S. dollar Foreign Currency 1The Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Lu- cia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 410 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. KITTS AND NEVIS 411 Account. Duties are levied on exports of lobster, sugar, and certain other products. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sold to a bank or deposited into an approved U.S. dollar account if the proceeds are in U.S. dollars. Travelers to St. Kitts and Nevis may bring in freely notes and coins denominated in East- ern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of for- eign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permit- ted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval, which is normally granted subject to payment of any taxes due. Emi- grants leaving St. Kitts and Nevis to take up resi- dence outside the area served by the ECCB may transfer their assets, with the permission of the Ministry of Finance. Direct investments in St. Kitts and Nevis by non- residents do not require exchange control approval. The remittance of proceeds from earnings on, and liquidation of, such investments is permitted, sub- ject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Kitts and Nevis. Gold There are no restrictions on the purchase, sale, and holdings of gold both for numismatic and in- dustrial purposes. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Lucia is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 30, 1988 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Sales of foreign ex- change by the commercial banks are subject to a tax of 1.5 percent. St. Lucia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from May 30, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Planning and applies to all curren- cies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Export licensing is required for a range of primary prod- ucts. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade. Arrears are maintained with re- spect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in Eastern Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency3 or in East- ern Caribbean dollars. Where justified by the nature of the transaction, approval may be given to make payments for goods and services in a currency dif- ferent from that of the country to which payment is to be made. i rThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresi- dent individuals or companies with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and are maintained in East- ern Caribbean dollars. These accounts may be cred- ited only with foreign drafts or checks, but hotels may also deposit currency notes in them. Such ac- counts may be debited for payments to residents payable in Eastern Caribbean dollars and, after ap- proval by the Ministry of Finance, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel purposes and other specified payments, including payment for imports. As funds in an External Account are nor- mally convertible to a foreign currency, deposits to and withdrawals from such an account require ex- change control approval by the Ministry of Finance. Foreign Currency Accounts A Foreign Currency Account is defined as an account denominated in a currency other than the Eastern Caribbean dollar. With the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, residents or nonresi- dents may open Foreign Currency Accounts with authorized dealers in St. Lucia. Such permission is granted in special cases where the applicant earns foreign exchange and has to make frequent pay- ments abroad. A resident or nonresident (whether an individual, firm, company, association, or in- stitution) wishing to open a Foreign Currency Ac- count must apply to the Ministry of Finance through an authorized dealer, stating the nature and estimated volume of receipts and payments in the desired foreign currency. All payments from a Foreign Currency Account require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance and are subject to the 1.5 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. Where permission is granted, the authorized dealer must submit to the Ministry of Finance a monthly statement of account, together with full details of payments and receipts. This is to ensure that the conditions for holding foreign currency are observed. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be imported without import li- censes. Certain other commodities require individ- ual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM coun- tries. St. Lucia applies the rules of origin of 412 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA 413 merchandise adopted by the CARICOM in June 1981. Payments in foreign currency for authorized im- ports are permitted upon application to a local bank and submission of certified customs entry. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Imports of live animals, milk, meat, fish, eggs, fertilizers, and most agricultural and industrial ma- chinery are exempt from import duties. Other ex- empt items include most imports from CARICOM and East Caribbean Common Market (ECCM) coun- tries, certain imports for use in industry, agricul- ture, fishing, air and sea transport (under industrial incentive legislation), and items exempted under the Hotel Aids Ordinance and Fiscal Incentives Or- dinance. The rates of import duty in the ECCM tariff begin at a minimum of 5 percent and are scheduled to be brought in line with the CARICOM common external tariff sometime in the future; the duties on bay rum and firearms are 70 percent. Stamp duties on all imports, except fertilizers, are 1 percent of c.i.f. value plus import duty. Certain imports are subject to a consumption tax; the tax base is c . i .f. value plus import duty. Payments for Invisibles Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$3,000 a year for travel; this limit may be exceeded only with permission from the Ministry of Finance. For travel within the CARICOM area using CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago currency), the basic allowance is EC$2,000 a year. A travel tax is levied on the sale of airline tickets at the rate of 2.5 percent of the price of the ticket for travel within the CARICOM area and 5 per- cent for travel elsewhere. The Eastern Caribbean dollar is freely transferable within the ECCB area. With the approval of the Ministry of Finance, profits may be remitted in full, subject to confirmation by the Comptroller of Inland Revenue that local tax liabilities have been discharged. However, in cases where profits are deemed to be high, the Ministry of Finance and Planning reserves the right to phase remittances over a reasonable period of time. In- surance premiums are subject to tax as follows: life insurance, 1.5 percent for residents and 3 per- cent for nonresident companies; general insurance, 3 percent for residents and 5 percent for nonresi- dent companies. Exports and Export Proceeds For certain commodities, no licenses are required for export to any destination. Proceeds from exports must, in principle, be surrendered. A duty of 2.5 percent is levied on the f .o .b. value of banana exports. A special fee (called a terminal through-put charge) of US$0.02 a barrel is applied on re-exports of petroleum. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must, in principle, be surrendered. Trav- elers to St. Lucia may bring in freely notes and coin denominated in Eastern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Foreign currency coin is not nor- mally exchanged by the banks. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of for- eign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permit- ted. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require approval, which is nor- mally granted, provided that local tax liabilities have been discharged. Purchase of property is subject to a tax levied at a higher rate in the case of nonresi- dent purchasers. Gold There are no restrictions on imports of gold. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments March 1. The stamp duties on imports were abol- ished. In order to recoup the lost revenue, there was a general revision of the Consumption Tax Sched- ule, which included the introduction of a 1 percent service charge. A 1 percent stamp duty was im- posed as an interim measure until the service charge can be implemented. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is the Eastern Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The Eastern Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dol- lar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31,1988, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were EC$2.69 and EC$2.71, re- spectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound ster- ling. The sale of foreign exchange by commercial banks is subject to a 2 percent tax. St. Vincent and the Grenadines formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from August 24, 1981. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import pay- ments and certain other payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East- ern Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements with resi- dents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in East- ern Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresi- dents with the authorization of the Ministry of Fi- nance. They are maintained in Eastern Caribbean dollars and may be credited with inward remit- tances in foreign currency and with transfers from JThe Eastern Caribbean dollar is also the currency of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Lucia. 2The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies include all currencies other than the East- ern Caribbean dollar. other External Accounts. Except with the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in Eastern Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coin, and payments by residents may not be credited to External Accounts. These accounts may, however, be freely debited for payments abroad and to residents without the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Transactions on these accounts are subject to the 2 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. Quarterly statements of the accounts must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance by the operating banks. Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in foreign currencies may be opened by nonresidents with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance; such accounts may be credited only with funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Except with the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in Eastern Ca- ribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coins, and payments by residents may not be credited to a Foreign Currency Account. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad without prior authori- zation by the Ministry of Finance. Transactions on these accounts are subject to a 2 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. Quarterly statements of the accounts must be submitted to the Ministry of Fi- nance by the operating banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Import items are divided into three categories: the largest category covers goods that may be freely imported; imports of some goods that compete with typical exports of other member countries of the CARICOM and the East Caribbean Common Market (ECCM)4 are subject to licenses; and imports of goods that compete with locally made products are prohibited in some cases. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence and, when required, of the license. Ad- vance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. 4The ECCM is composed of Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. 414 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES 415 Payments for Invisibles Payments for travel, medical treatment, educa- tion, subscription and membership fees, and gifts are subject to limits. All other payments exceeding EC$100 require approval by the Ministry of Finance. Residents may purchase foreign exchange f rom au- thorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$2,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area; for business travel, additional allocations of foreign exchange may be made available up to an amount not exceed- ing EC$6,000 a year. The above allocations can be increased with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Purchases of foreign currency to cover ex- penses for medical treatment abroad are authorized by the Ministry of Finance upon presentation of a written statement by a local medical practitioner of the need for the treatment. The amount approved is based on the actual cost of the treatment. The amount of local currency that can be taken out by travelers is limited to EC$50 a trip. A 5 percent tax is levied on the value of all tickets for travel originating in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, whether or not the ticket is purchased in the country. Students attending educational institutions over- seas are permitted to purchase foreign exchange to cover the cost of tuition and living expenses. Docu- mentary proof of acceptance and attendance at the institution is required. Transfers of funds within the ECCB area require authorization of the Ministry of Finance when individual transactions exceed EC$2,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export to any destina- tion of some agricultural goods included in the CAR- ICOM marketing protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade, which in some cases has dele- gated its authority to the St. Vincent Central Mar- keting Corporation. Exports of goats, sheep, and lobsters are subject to licensing to prevent depletion of stocks. All export proceeds must be surrendered. A 3 percent export duty is levied on bananas. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may freely bring in notes and coin denominated in East- ern Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of for- eign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes is not normally permit- ted. On presentation of documentary proof that permanent residence is being taken in a foreign country, emigrants may apply to the Ministry of Finance to transfer funds abroad based on the value of assets held in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Transfer of sums exceeding EC$20,000 a year is not normally permitted. The transfer of proceeds from sales of assets held by emigrants already resident in a foreign country is also limited to EC$20,000 a year. Direct investment in St. Vincent and the Gren- adines by nonresidents is not subject to exchange control. The remittance of earnings on, and liquida- tion proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their do- mestic operations requires the approval of the Min- istry of Finance. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coin for numismatic purposes only. Under license by the Ministry of Finance, imports of gold are per- mitted for industrial purposes only. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe Dobra, which is pegged to a basket of currencies of nine major trading partners of Sao Tome and Principe. The intervention cur- rency for the dobra is the U.S. dollar. On July 16, 1988, the exchange rate of the dobra was adjusted from Db 78.91 = US$1 to Db 100 = US$1. On De- cember 31,1988, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, were Db 98.501 = US$1 and Db 101.499 = US$ 1, respectively. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are determined on the basis of the exchange rates of the U.S. dollar for the cur- rencies concerned. Foreign exchange transactions are divided into three categories for the purposes of assessing charges on purchases and sales of foreign ex- change—namely, import payments, transactions in foreign checks, and collection of export proceeds. On import-related exchange transactions, the ar- rangements are as follows: on the opening of a letter of credit, a charge of 1.125 percent of the import value is payable, with an additional commission to the National Bank of 0.5 percent. A stamp duty of Db 2 per Db 1,000 of import value, plus a flat Db 50, is also payable, as well as a postage levy of Db 50. Any change in the letter of credit carries a further charge of Db 150. On foreign checks for collection, the National Bank applies a commission in favor of the collecting foreign correspondents, varying according to the particular bank. In addition, the National Bank charges a postage levy of Db 20 for each transaction, together with a stamp duty of Db 15. In the period between payment of the import cost by the bank and receipt of funds from the importer, an interest rate of 6.5 percent a year is charged on the loan. For collection of export proceeds, the National Bank charges a commission of 0.25 percent when opening the letter of credit and a further 0.125 percent when the funds are received. In addition, a postage levy of Db 500 is charged. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions come under the control of the National Bank. The exchange controls are applied flexibly, and exceptions to the stated limits are permitted on an ad hoc basis. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the Na- tional Bank, and all exchange payments must be made through this bank, with the exception of producers of exported goods who may keep 30 per- cent of export proceeds in accounts with correspon- dent banks of the National Bank abroad to meet their import requirements. Import and export li- censes are granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The National Bank may prescribe the currency in which foreign exchange transactions shall be made. Bilateral payments agreements are maintained with Cape Verde, the People's Republic of China, and the German Democratic Republic. Under the agreement with the German Demo- cratic Republic covering the period 1986-89, Sao Tome and Principe imports building supplies, equipment, and raw materials for the construction and operation of the brewery and ceramics factory, as well as certain consumer goods, especially meat and automobile accessories. The quantity of these goods to be imported is specified in annual pro- tocols under the agreement. In return, Sao Tome and Principe is required to export to the German Democratic Republic specified quantities of cocoa and copra annually. Transactions under the payments agreement with Cape Verde have normally covered Sao Tome and Principe's imports from Cape Verde, as well as re- ceipts and payments for various services and trans- fers. The agreement provides for the central banks of the two countries to grant each other reciprocal noninterest credits of US$200,000; it also states that, should this balance be depleted and a debit balance persist for more than six months, the imbalance will be redressed by appropriate trade transactions be- tween the two parties. Imports and Import Payments Registered importers (including all productive entities) holding approved import licenses are per- mitted to engage in import activity. Imports by the state-owned foreign trading enterprise (ECOMEX) are limited to beans, edible oil, milk, rice, sugar, and 416 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE 417 wheat flour; however, the private sector is free to import these items. Fuels and lubricants are im- ported by ENCO (the fuel enterprise), and medicines are imported by ENAMED (the pharmaceutical enter- prise). Import licenses are granted by the Ministry of Commerce, and they must be approved by the National Bank. For all imports, licenses are issued in accordance with Advance Import Registration Bul- letins, which are valid for six months, but may be extended if necessary. The license specifies the quantity and the c . i .f. and f .o .b. values of the prod- uct to be imported, together with the currency of settlement. Licenses are granted under the annual import plan, taking into account the availability of foreign exchange and the country's supply and eco- nomic development requirements. At the time of opening letters of credit, importers are required to lodge a deposit in domestic currency equivalent to 40 percent of the value of letters of credit; the re- mainder may be financed with a 120-day loan from the National Bank at an annual interest rate of 22 percent. Prepayment for imports is permitted only through the opening of letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are approved within limits established by the National Bank. These limits, which allow for additional amounts in justi- fiable cases, include those on (1) transfers for medi- cal treatment abroad when local facilities are inade- quate; (2) transfers of remittances to students; (3) transfers of savings from earnings under techni- cal cooperation agreements with the Government; and (4) transfers for payment of fares, freight, costs of communication with foreign countries, etc. Pur- chases of foreign exchange by residents for tourism are strictly limited, although air fares may be paid in domestic currency. Individual expenditures on air- line tickets by private citizens for travel abroad may not exceed Db 40,000 in value over a three-year period. Transfers of profits by foreign companies established in Sao Tome and Principe prior to inde- pendence have been suspended. There are no lim- itations on remittances for subscriptions to periodi- cals, books, etc., or on the payments of interest on external debt. Foreign exchange allowances for medical pur- poses are permitted up to Db 20,000 for a period of one month. Transfers of pension payments or social security payments are also permitted for nonresi- dent nationals who had been receiving such al- lowances before 1980. Payments for technical assis- tance and other services in the national interest are allowed. At the beginning of the school year, a stu- dent may receive a special transfer of up to Db 5,000 a year for expenses related to courses taken abroad; additional amounts may be granted if approved by the Ministry of Education and Culture. All payments related to invisibles are subject to a stamp tax of 2 percent of value, or 4 percent if payment is made through a telegraphic transfer. A postage levy of Db 20 is payable on all transactions. Foreign travelers may take out in foreign exchange an amount not greater than the total sum declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license, as set out in Advance Export Registration Bulletins, which spec- ify the quantity and c . i . f. or f .o .b. value of the ex- port. All export proceeds must be repatriated through the National Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign exchange. Capital Inward foreign investments are governed by the new Investment Code (implemented in April 1986). Transfers are permitted for repayment of financing under agreements with the Government and for the amortization of private sector investments in ac- tivities considered to be in the national interest. Personnel under technical assistance programs are allowed to transfer their savings in accordance with the terms of their contracts. Gold Exports and imports of gold require special autho- rization by the National Bank. Changes During 1988 July 16. The exchange rate of the dobra was ad- justed from Db 78.91 = US$1 to Db 100 = US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Arabian Riyal, which is pegged to the SDR at SRIs 4.28255 = SDR 1. In principle, margins not exceeding 7.25 per- cent are allowed around the fixed relationship; these margins were suspended on July 22,1981. The mid- dle rate of the Saudi Arabian riyal for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, quoted by the Saudi Ara- bian Monetary Agency is determined on the basis of the International Monetary Fund's daily calculation of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31,1988, the Monetary Agency's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was SRIs 3.745 per US$1; it sold U.S. dollars to banks at SRIs 3.750 per US$1 and bought from banks and the principal producer of petroleum at SRIs 3.740 per US$1; these rates served as the basis for exchange quotations in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to 0.25 percent above and below the Monetary Agency's buying and sell- ing rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Saudi Arabia formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel and South Africa is prohibited.1 No other prescription of cur- rency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad is obtained freely. The impor- tation of a few commodities is prohibited for reasons of religion, health, or security.2 Most imports are subject to customs duties at rates ranging between 12 percent and 20 percent; imports from member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) are exempted, provided that at *In addition, all imports from and all exports to these countries are prohibited; payments may not be made to them or be received from them for any type of transaction, whether of a current or capital nature. 2Certain imports from Lebanon are subject at present to proof- of-origin requirements. least 40 percent of the value added in each case is effected in GCC countries and that at least 51 per- cent of the capital of the producing firm is owned by citizens of GCC member countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. The re-export of certain imported items benefiting from government subsidy is prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Travelers may freely import and ex- port Saudi Arabian bank notes and coin. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. The Monetary Agency has issued guide- lines to its foreign correspondent banks requiring them to seek approval prior to the flotation of riyal- denominated loans. Local banks are prohibited from inviting foreign banks to participate in riyal- denominated syndicated transactions inside or out- side Saudi Arabia without prior approval of the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. Prior approval by the Monetary Agency is also required for participa- tion by local banks in either riyal-syndicated trans- actions arranged abroad or foreign-currency- syndicated transactions arranged for nonresidents. The Foreign Capital Investment Law provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved for- eign investments in Saudi Arabia. Approved for- eign capital enjoys the same privileges as domestic capital under the 1962 Law for the Protection and Promotion of National Industry. Foreign capital in- vested in industrial or agricultural projects with at least 25 percent Saudi Arabian participation is ex- empt from income and corporate tax for ten years after production has begun. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs duty or tax, 418 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA 419 import and export gold in any form, with the excep- tion of gold of 14 karats or less, the import of which is prohibited. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments January 2. The minimum customs tariff rate was raised to 12 percent and the number of duty-free imports was reduced. September 6. Forty-four items, including power- generating machinery, electric equipment (such as cranes, alkaline batteries, measuring instruments, smoke detectors, switchgear, and cables), and wire communication devices were exempted from the customs duty. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Senegal is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU) and 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 An exchange commission of 0.125-1.0 per mill, depending on the amount, is charged by the banks on purchases or sales of foreign exchange other than those directly related to external transac- tions. In addition, they levy a commission of 2.5 mill on transfers to all countries outside the WAMU, 72 percent of which must be surrendered to the Treasury, through the Central Bank. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward covers against exchange risk can be ob- tained by residents only in respect of imports of a specified category of goods. All forward covers against exchange risk are subject to authorization by the Directorate of Money and Credit (Ministry of Economy and Finance). Forward covers against ex- change risk can be provided only in the currency of settlement stipulated in the commercial contract. Maturities must correspond to the due date of for- eign exchange settlement as stipulated in the com- mercial contract and must not exceed one month. For some specified products, the maturity of for- ward covers may be extended one time up to three months. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Senegal's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Mona- co; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Cen- irThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Quest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a minimum flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. tral African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate of Money and Credit in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Part of the approval authority in re- spect of exchange control has been delegated to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Ad- ministration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Export authorizations and prior import authorizations are issued for listed products by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Since Senegal is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mona- co, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current transac- tions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally settled through the West Afri- can Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspon- dent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with South Af- rica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Dakar by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent; 420 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 421 such bank notes may be credited to a Foreign Ac- count in Francs opened by the latter with an au- thorized bank in Senegal. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries directly to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or transshipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. With respect to other countries, the principle of most-favored- nation treatment of all commercial partners of Sene- gal was established in 1981. Moreover, quantitative restrictions and prior authorization requirements for certain imports now apply only on the basis of the type of products, not on the basis of the country of origin or transshipment. Quantitative restrictions may be applied for various reasons, such as agri- cultural policy, sanitation, or protection of certain sectors (cement, fertilizers, sugar, wheat flour, and tomatoes). All import transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 100,000 (delivered at the Senegalese border or c . i . f . ). The exchange authorizations entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or the due date for settlement if the commodities have already been imported (if no documentary credit has been opened, on presentation of the bill of lading). Furthermore, payments for imports may not be made prior to customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are sub- ject to exchange approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Authorized intermediary banks are empowered to effect any payment abroad up to CFAF 20,000 on behalf of residents without requiring documents. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted, on the basis of a request for exchange authorization submitted to the Ministry of Finance. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a year for each person (CFAF 100,000 for children under 10); any foreign exchange remaining after return to Senegal must be surrendered. Applica- tions for additional amounts of foreign exchange may also be approved on the basis of applications for foreign exchange authorizations submitted to the Ministry of Finance. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 300,000 a per- son a trip, but not more than the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO bank notes or its equivalent in currency notes issued by the Bank of France or a bank of issue linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account may be taken. The transfer of the full net salary of a foreigner working in Senegal is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months following the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out, in addition to any foreign exchange allocation, up to CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Resident trav- elers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but, if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, they must declare to customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 200,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out any means of payment, such as traveler's checks, issued abroad in their name. However, the export of for- eign bank notes in amounts in excess of the equiv- alent of CFAF 50,000 is authorized only up to the amount declared by them on entry (minus sales of foreign exchange in Senegal and plus any re- purchases up to CFAF 50,000). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, cereals, pea- nuts, tomato paste, fine pearls, precious and similar stones, plated or coated precious metals and articles made of them and precious metal products, and costume jewelry), exports dp not require prior au- thorization. Certain nontraditional exports to non- member countries of the West African Economic Community (WAEC) are eligible for an export sub- sidy equivalent to 25 percent based on industrial value added at international prices. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries, including members of the WAMU and countries of the French Franc Area, must normally be collected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination and repatri- ated through BCEAO not later than one month after ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 422 SENEGAL the due date. All export transactions exceeding CFAF 500,000 must be domiciled with an authorized intermediary bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign bank notes must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and South Af- rica are prohibited. Capital movements between Senegal and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require approval by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. Controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward in- vestment, and over the issuing, advertising, or of- fering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minis- ter of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authori- zation, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Senegalese Government, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be substituted for, securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Senegal has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over for- eign securities, these measures do not apply to France, Monaco, member countries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special con- trols are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and in- stitutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Senegal require prior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance;3 75 percent of such investments must be financed with borrowing from abroad. For- eign direct investments in Senegal4 must be de- clared to the Minister of Economy and Finance be- fore such investments are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request postponement of the project. Both the making and the liquidating of di- rect and other investments, whether these are Sene- galese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister of Economy and Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a com- pany or enterprise. Mere participation is not consid- ered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) borrowings constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; and (2) borrowings contracted by authorized banks. The repayment of borrowings not constituting a direct investment requires the authorization of the Minis- ter of Economy and Finance if the borrowing itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if it was exempt from authorization. The Investment Code provides various facilities and benefits for approved foreign investments in Senegal. There are special facilities for export indus- tries established in the Dakar export-processing zone. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold (gold jewelry and gold materials) from or to any other country require prior authorization by the 3 Including investments made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Senegal. Including those made by companies in Senegal which are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Senegal of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 423 Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are: (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Bro- kers in precious metals require an authorization from the Minister of Economy and Finance to con- duct their business. Imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of non- monetary gold by brokers are subject to a 25 percent ad valorem tax. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior import authorization by the Minister of Commerce, and imports of ornaments require the prior advice of the Directorate of Handicrafts (Min- istry of Industrial Development and Handicrafts) and the Directorate of Foreign Trade (Ministry of Commerce). Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments February 13. Decree No. 88.161 liberalized the im- portation of certain office and stationery supplies, hand and bath towels, textiles and textile articles, and shoes and shoe parts. Exports and Export Proceeds July 12. Decree No. 88.956 liberalized the exporta- tion of merchandise made in Senegal or trans- shipped from Senegal, with the exception of certain products that may still be exported only with the authorization of the Minister of Trade (e.g., cereals, hulled peanuts, tomatoes, solid sugar, fine pearls, and precious and similar stones). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seychelles Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at SR 7.2345 = SDR 1. Exchange rates for various currencies (in- cluding the pound sterling, the intervention cur- rency) are quoted on the basis of their New York closing rates for the U.S. dollar on the previous day, using the U.S. dollar rate for the Seychelles rupee as derived from the fixed parity to the SDR. These rates are circulated daily to the commercial banks by the Central Bank. On December 31, 1988, the buy- ing and selling rates of the Central Bank of the Seychelles for the pound sterling were SR 9.7130 and SR 9.8103, respectively, per £ stg. 1. The Central Bank charges a commission of 0.125 percent for buying and 0.875 percent for selling of pounds ster- ling and U.S. dollars. The commercial banks are authorized to deal in pounds sterling and other currencies at rates based on the exchange rates cir- culated daily by the Central Bank for the respective currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Seychelles formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from January 3, 1978. Administration of Control and Prescription of Currency There is no exchange control, and there are no prescription of currency requirements. The Sey- chelles Marketing Board exercises controls on for- eign trade and domestic marketing; its Import Divi- sion and Import Control Unit perform regulatory and commercial roles. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for im- ports. Importers are required to obtain import li- censes from the Seychelles Licensing Authority and to apply for import permits from the Import Control section of the Seychelles Marketing Board. Certain basic food items (including sugar, flour, oil, mar- garine, rice, and animal feeds) can be imported only by the Seychelles Marketing Board. Most imports are subject to the trade and service tax, at rates ranging from 10 percent to 375 percent (with the bulk of imported commodities falling in the range of 10 percent to 50 percent). Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invis- ibles, and no limits are imposed on the provision of travel exchange. Travelers may take or send out of Seychelles any amount of foreign currency and up to SR 100 of domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports normally do not require licenses. Exports of copra, cinnamon, and fish (the principal exports) are controlled by the Seychelles Marketing Board. Residents may export goods without exchange con- trol formality to any country except South Africa. There is no regulation governing the repatriation of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be dis- posed of freely. However, trading in foreign curren- cies by persons other than authorized dealers is prohibited. Overseas visitors may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital Transfers of overseas-owned capital are allowed without restriction. Nonnationals are permitted to repatriate their surplus earnings without limit. Investment outside Seychelles by permanent res- idents and by companies and other organizations operating in Seychelles is not subject to any limita- tion. Foreign investment (whether portfolio, direct investment, increased investment in existing en- tities in the form of loans, or equity capital) is not restricted, provided that commercial and manufac- turing investments conform to a minimum equity contribution of 30 percent of capital investment, as prescribed from December 1988. Commercial banks in Seychelles are required to restrict credit to nonnationals primarily for working capital purposes only and generally to an amount not in excess of overseas funds invested in Seychelles in enterprises in certain priority sectors—i.e., agriculture and fishing, manufactur- ing, construction, and tourism. In addition, penalty loan rates are imposed on credit secured by foreign assets. 424 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES 425 Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold and sell gold in any form, but dealings in gold bullion are re- stricted to authorized dealers. Seychelles has issued the following commemorative gold coins, which are also legal tender: (1) two coins issued by the Cur- rency Board (1976) in the denominations of SR 1,500 and SR 1,000; (2) a coin in the denomination of SR 20 to commemorate the f if th anniversary of the Central Bank in December 1983; (3) a coin in the denomina- tion of SR 25 to mark the World Fisheries Conference of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) issued in April 1984; (4) a coin in the denomination of SR 500 to commemorate the United Nations De- cade for Women issued in February 1986; (5) a coin in the denomination of SR 1,000 to mark the tenth anniversary of Seychelles' independence issued in June 1986; (6) a coin in the denomination of SR 1,000 to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the fifth of June 1977 Liberation issued in June 1987; and (7) two coins in the denominations of SR 100 and SR 1,000 to mark the tenth anniversary of the Cen- tral Bank issued in December 1988. Changes During 1988 Capital December 1. Seychelles Industrial Development Policy prescribed a minimum equity contribution of 30 percent of capital investment for all investors, including foreign investors. Gold December 1. Two gold coins in the denominations of SR 100 and SR 1,000 were issued by the Central Bank to commemorate its tenth anniversary. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leo- nean Leone. Effective May 1, 1987, a freely floating interbank exchange system was terminated and the leone was pegged to the U.S. dollar at the rate of Le 53 = US$1. The exchange rate of the leone was revalued to Le 23 = US$1 on August 31, 1987. Between end-August 1987 and mid-March 1988, the exchange rate of the leone against the U.S. dollar remained unchanged. On March 18, 1988, the ex- change rate was adjusted to Le 29 = US$1 and on August 1, 1988, the exchange rate was adjusted to Le 40 = US$1. Between August 1 and end- December 1988, the exchange rate remained unchanged. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is formulated by the Min- istry of Finance, in consultation with the Bank of Sierra Leone, but the day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone with the assistance of the commercial banks. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Authority for providing foreign ex- change for invisible payments up to prescribed limits is delegated to commercial banks. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to ex- change control. Certain settlements with the Peo- ple's Republic of China must be channeled through clearing accounts established under the bilateral payments agreement. Payments for imports from other countries may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account in the currency of the export- ing country, in pounds sterling, or in U.S. dollars. Settlements with the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, and Nigeria are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Receipts from exports other than diamonds to countries other than the People's Republic of China may be obtained in leones from an External Account in the currency of the importing country or in any specified currency.1 Receipts from all exports must be obtained in con- vertible currencies and surrendered to the Bank of Sierra Leone through the banking system. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone on behalf of diplomatic missions, United Nations agencies, and their accredited staff are designated External Accounts. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which funds due to nonresidents that may not be remitted abroad are credited. Imports and Import Payments All goods, with the exception of a list of pre- scribed items—ammunition, drugs, cartridges, gambling machines, beer, and cigarettes, and im- ports from Namibia and South Africa—may be im- ported under open general licenses that are issued freely. Authority for approving transactions is dele- gated to the commercial banks. All applications for purchase of foreign exchange for the importation of goods must be supported by a valid import license, pro forma invoice, and current certificate of income and should be submitted to a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. Importation of goods financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources has been permitted since May 23, 1988. This system permits importation to be made on the basis of let- ters of credit established with a local commercial bank, and importers must comply with all regula- tions pertaining to imports. Products must be deemed essential to the economic and social needs of the country. All applications for such imports must be submitted to the Bank of Sierra Leone for approval. Imports are subject to an invoice entry fee of 5 percent and an import licensing fee of 5 percent, both of which are calculated on the c.i.f. value of imports; the fees for imports from the member 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 426 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE 427 countries of the Economic Community of West Afri- can States are one half of these rates. The fees are payable at the time of importation. Payments for Invisibles Authority to provide foreign exchange for legiti- mate expenses is delegated to the commercial banks. Applications for basic travel allowance in excess of US$1,000 a year for an adult person must be referred to the Bank of Sierra Leone for approval. A travel tax of 10 percent is levied on the price of tickets and is payable when the ticket is purchased. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of some products, the exporta- tion of which is restricted to certain state corpora- tions, export licenses are granted by the Ministry of Trade and Industry for the export of all products to all countries except Namibia and South Africa. All exports must be effected either under letters of credit opened with a commercial bank in Sierra Leone or on a prepayment basis with a commercial bank in Sierra Leone. All exporters are required to complete CD.2 forms and secure an export license from the Government relating to specific goods or services to be exported. In principle, all exporters are required to fully surrender foreign exchange earnings to the com- mercial banks. However, certain retention arrange- ments exist with some of the main exporters. The exportation of gold and diamonds, which had in the past been carried out by licensed firms under the supervision of the Government Gold and Dia- mond Office (GGDO), has been nationalized. The Bank of Sierra Leone is at present the sole exporter of gold, and the GGDO is the sole exporter of diamonds. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an autho- rized bank within three days. The importation of domestic bank notes is limited to Le 250 for each traveler. Residents receiving foreign currencies or entering Sierra Leone with foreign exchange must exchange these currencies into domestic currency at a commercial bank within three days. Nonresidents bringing foreign exchange into Sierra Leone must exchange or deposit it with a bank within three days. Capital Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone require permission from the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad. Investments by nonresi- dents, including profits, may be repatriated at any time, provided that exchange control permission was obtained initially for the investment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Act of 1954 imposes control on the issue and transfer of se- curities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permission if either the person acquiring the securities or the person for whom he is nominee is resident outside Sierra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Si- erra Leone may be transferred to a nonresident. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad without per- mission. Where permission has been given for se- curities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to per- sons resident abroad, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone. The Development Ordi- nance of 1960 and the Development of Industries Act, 1983 provide for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domestic companies un- dertaking industrial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or controll- ing certain types of business. Residents of Sierra Leone must sell their foreign exchange holdings to an authorized dealer. Exemp- tion is granted for authorized dealers, diplomats, and holders of sterling assets held prior to June 24, 1972 for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Exempted securities may be sold outside the former Sterling Area, and any income therefrom may be retained in the former Sterling Area or reinvested in other Ster- ling Area securities. Any certificate of securities purchased with the proceeds of the sale of securities exempted under this permission is exempt from deposit requirements. Any assets held outside the former Sterling Area by any foreign national tem- porarily resident in Sierra Leone are also exempt from surrender and deposit requirements, pro- vided that exemption has been claimed and granted by an authorized dealer or by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely pur- chase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean commemorative gold coins. With these exceptions, only the Bank of Sierra Leone is authorized to export gold in any form other than jewelry; residents must declare and make available to the Government gold held in the form of bars or coin. Imports of gold in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 428 SIERRA LEONE any form other than jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler require individual import licenses, which are not normally granted. Travelers do not require a license to take out personal jewelry if the value of the total gold and platinum content does not exceed Le 200. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement March 18. The exchange rate of the leone was adjusted to Le 29 = US$1. August 8. The exchange rate of the leone was adjusted to Le 37 = US$1. August 13. The exchange rate of the leone was adjusted to Le 40 = US$1. Imports and Import Payments May 23. Importation of products financed with importers' own foreign exchange resources was allowed. November 25. Importation of cigarettes was banned. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Singapore is the Singapore Dol- lar. Singapore follows a policy under which the Sin- gapore dollar is permitted to float, and the exchange rate of the Singapore dollar in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and all other cur- rencies is freely determined in the foreign exchange market. However, the Monetary Authority of Sin- gapore monitors the external value of the Singapore dollar against a trade-weighted basket of currencies with the objective of maintaining a low and stable domestic inflation rate. The interbank buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 30, 1988 were S$1.9457 and S$1.9467 respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are established on the basis of the daily rate for the U.S. dollar and their cross rates in international markets. Banks are free to deal spot and forward in all currencies, with no limits on maturities or underlying transactions. Foreign currency futures are traded at the Sin- gapore International Monetary Exchange. Banks can hedge their exchange rate risk through a for- ward foreign exchange transaction. There is an ac- tive short-term currency swap market among the banks in the domestic money market. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely in- terchangeable, at par and without charge, in Sin- gapore and Brunei. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Singapore formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control There are no exchange control formalities, but the Monetary Authority of Singapore retains responsi- bility for exchange control matters. The Trade De- velopment Board under the Ministry of Trade and Industry administers import and export licensing requirements for a very small number of products. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Nonresident Accounts There is no distinction between accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents of Singapore. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments Very few items imported into Singapore are du- tiable. The highest duties are levied on liquors, to- bacco, petroleum, and motor cars. Other items carry a modest duty of 5 percent ad valorem. A few imports are controlled for health, safety, or security reasons. All imports originating in South Africa or any territory administered by it are prohibited. Im- port licenses are required for rice, irrespective of origin, and for all imports originating in, or con- signed from, Albania, the German Democratic Re- public, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and Viet Nam. Licenses for imports from the latter countries are subject to a surcharge of 0.5 percent of the c . i .f. value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remit- tances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits may be made freely. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may take out any amount in foreign or Singapore bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports of Singapore origin, e.g., textiles and textile products, are subject to quantitative re- strictions and other nontariff barriers in the import- ing countries, particularly the United States, Can- ada, Sweden, Norway, and the countries of the European Communities. Export licenses are re- quired for granite, sand, timber, and rubber, but there is no restriction on export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes and coin, including Singapore gold coin. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers. With the complete liberalization of exchange con- trols in 1978, Singapore residents, including corpo- rations, are allowed to make payments in all curren- cies to any country outside Singapore without any 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 430 SINGAPORE restrictions. Residents may invest, borrow, and lend in foreign currencies without prior exchange control approval and may deal freely in spot and forward foreign exchange transactions in all currencies. However, banks and merchant banks intending to grant loans in Singapore dollars in excess of S$5 million to nonresidents or to residents for use outside Singapore require the approval of the Mone- tary Authority of Singapore. Banks in Singapore may freely accept deposits in foreign currencies. Financial institutions that have been approved to operate Asian Currency Units (ACUs) in Singapore are able to offer better rates for foreign currency deposits placed with their ACUs because of the absence of minimum cash reserve and liquidity requirements. An ACU is a separate accounting entity of financial institutions that enjoy a concessional tax rate of 10 percent on their income; these institutions are prohibited from transacting in Singapore dollars. There are no restrictions on investments, whether direct or portfolio, in Singapore by nonresidents or abroad by residents. Income earned by nonresi- dents on funds placed by them with an approved fund manager in Singapore for investment in ap- proved assets is exempted from tax under the Tax Exemption Scheme for Fund Management. Government approval is required for foreigners investing in residential and other properties (in- cluding vacant land) other than those zoned or ap- proved for industrial or commercial use. A foreigner may, however, freely purchase a residential unit within a building of six or more stories and in an approved condominium development without such approval. With regard to other residential proper- ties, foreigners who make an economic contribution to Singapore will be given favorable consideration for purchase of these properties for their own oc- cupation and, in the case of foreign companies, for the accommodation of their senior personnel. Income earned by nonresidents on funds placed by them with an approved fund manager in Sin- gapore for investments in offshore stock markets and in the domestic stock market is exempted from tax under the Tax Exemption Scheme for Offshore Fund Management. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore. Both resident and nonresident individuals and com- panies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold freely; imports and exports require nei- ther exchange control approval nor import or export licenses, and gold can be dealt with freely by any person in Singapore. Gold can be traded on the spot or futures markets. In the spot market, most of the trading is done on a London basis where delivery of 995 fine gold is made in London; trading also takes place in Kilobar gold with settlement of 999.9 fine gold being made in Singapore, with appropriate adjustments made for the cost of transportation and insurance. A gold futures contract is also available on the Singapore International Monetary Exchange. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments April 1. The import duty on refrigerators and the import licensing requirement for air conditioners were eliminated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Solomon Islands is the Solomon Islands Dollar, which is issued by the Central Bank of Solomon Islands. The exchange rate for the Sol- omon Islands dollar is determined on the basis of a relationship between the Solomon Islands dollar and a trade-weighted basket of the currencies of Solomon Islands' four major trading partners. The Central Bank may make discretionary adjustments in the exchange value of the Solomon Islands dollar, up to a total of 2 percent during any four-week period. The Central Bank provides the commercial banks daily with the limits on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in their transactions with the Central Bank and the public. On December 31, 1988, the buying and selling rates quoted by the banks in their dealings with the public were US$0.4726 and US$0.4716, respectively, per SI$1. The commercial banks in Solomon Islands are free to determine their exchange rates for all other foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward cover facility is mainly for bona fide trade or trade- related transactions. Commercial banks may enter into forward contracts with permanent residents of Solomon Islands in any currency. However, the Central Bank will provide cover only in U.S. dollars and for periods of one to six months. The Central Bank also provides the commercial banks daily with the limits as a percentage of the forward buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar for one to six months for their dealings with the Central Bank. Commer- cial banks are allowed to apply a margin of up to ten basis points above or below the Central Bank's for- ward rates in respect of their U.S. dollar forward contracts with the public. Solomon Islands formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Articles of Agreement on July 24, 1979. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank by means of the Exchange Control (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, which came into force on March 1, 1977. The Central Bank delegates exten- sive powers to commercial banks, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange. The authorized dealers may approve certain types of application for exchange control approval up to specified limits. All persons residing in Solomon Islands are re- garded as permanent residents for exchange control purposes, unless they have been granted temporary resident status by an authorized dealer or by the Central Bank. Applications for temporary resident status are normally approved if the person is a cit- izen of a foreign country and intends to reside in Solomon Islands for a period of less than four years or has resided in Solomon Islands for over four years but who can produce evidence of firm intention to resume permanent residence overseas in the near future. Ownership of real property (other than dwellings for own occupation) or a business indi- cates permanent residential status, regardless of the duration of residence in Solomon Islands. However, temporary resident status does not release a person from the obligation to comply with all provisions of the exchange control regulations. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments to persons resident outside Solomon Islands that are expressed in a foreign currency may only be met by payments in that foreign currency. Export proceeds may be re- ceived in any foreign currency or in Solomon Is- lands dollars from an account of an overseas bank with a bank in Solomon Islands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open nonresident accounts in Solomon Islands dollars with authorized dealers, but approval from the Central Bank is required for the crediting of these accounts from Solomon Is- lands sources. Balances on such accounts may be transferred abroad with the approval of the Central Bank or authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on payments for im- ports, provided that it can be shown that they are properly due overseas. Authorized dealers are per- mitted to approve most transactions without refer- ence to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily given for payments for ser- vices and remittances of dividends, profits, and other earnings accruing to overseas residents from 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 432 SOLOMON ISLANDS companies in Solomon Islands, provided that it can be shown that they are properly due overseas. Per- manent residents are permitted to purchase foreign exchange for payment of all types of invisibles if supporting documents are provided. Transfers by postal order to persons residing permanently out- side Solomon Islands are permitted, provided that the total amount transferred does not exceed SI$100 a week. Approval is normally given for the purchase of foreign currency for travel purposes. Applications for travel funds must be lodged with an authorized dealer, and applicants are required to present their passports and passage or flight tickets. Requests for unusually large amounts of foreign exchange are referred to the Central Bank. Travelers may not take out Solomon Islands currency notes and coin in excess of SI$250 without the approval of the Central Bank; approval is not normally given. Exports and Export Proceeds Residents may export goods without exchange control formality, provided that they comply with the terms of the General Authority issued by the Central Bank. The essential conditions of this Gen- eral Authority are that payments for exported goods are received within three months of the date of export, that the export price is not less than the price that an exporter might reasonably be expected to receive, and that the proceeds are sold promptly to an authorized dealer. Where exporters are not in a position to comply with the conditions of the Gen- eral Authority, they must apply to the Central Bank for a Specific Authority. Authority is not needed for goods under SI$250 in value in any one consign- ment or for certain exempted categories of goods, in- cluding most kinds of personal effects of passengers. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by means of a sale to an authorized dealer. Overseas residents visiting Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of cur- rency for travel expenditure. Capital All outward transfers of capital require exchange control approval. All applications for transfers must be referred to the Central Bank. Approval is readily given for the withdrawal of nonresident-owned in- vestment capital, repayment of overseas borrow- ings, and the remittance of temporary residents' and emigrants' funds. New investment abroad by permanent residents or by companies and other organizations operating in Solomon Islands is subject to certain limitations. Direct investment overseas is permitted when it is likely to be of benefit to Solomon Islands. In the case of portfolio investments, the approval of the Central Bank is needed prior to the acquisition or disposal of foreign securities by a permanent resident. Ap- proval is normally not given for the acquisition of overseas portfolio investments. Restrictions are not normally imposed on the disposal of foreign se- curities acquired before to March 1, 1977. Approval by the Central Bank is required for a resident to borrow funds from or to issue equity capital to a nonresident. The Solomon Islands branch of a company or firm incorporated overseas requires approval by the Central Bank before it may borrow funds from a nonresident, including the branch's overseas head office. Where initial or in- creased foreign investment is concerned, the For- eign Investment Board must also give its approval. Gold Solomon Islanders alone are granted a license to pan for alluvial gold. Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit is- sued by the Ministry of Natural Resources to mine, buy, or export gold. The Central Bank is authorized to buy, sell, and hold gold but has not yet under- taken any such transactions. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of currencies of Somalia's main trading partners. The official ex- change rate is adjusted weekly to reflect changes in the cross rates of currencies in the basket and the relative rates of inflation in Somalia and its trading partners. On December 31, 1988, the official buy- ing and selling rates were So. Sh 268.29 and So. Sh 273.71, respectively, per US$1. The official exchange rate applies to imports of goods and ser- vices and debt-service payments of the Govern- ment. The exchange rate in the free market is nego- tiated freely between resident holders of foreign exchange accounts, i.e., export/import accounts and external accounts. The Central Bank of Somalia carries out transactions in certain other currencies,1 taking into account rates in exchange markets abroad. The official exchange market in Somalia comprises the Central Bank and the sole commer- cial bank operating as the authorized dealer of the Central Bank in respect of transactions in foreign currencies. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk operating in the official sector. The commercial bank also does not conduct forward exchange transactions on behalf of the public, al- though this is not prohibited. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce is the principal government agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade controls. The state-trading organization, the National Agency for Trade (ENC), is responsible for the import and distribution of certain commodities received under aid programs. Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the U.S.S.R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denominated in pounds sterling.2 Settlements with all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in specified curren- cies (including the U.S. dollar; see footnote 1); however, residents are not permitted to make settle- ments with Israel or South Africa. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in foreign currency and ex- ternal accounts in U.S. dollars may be opened with the Central Bank by foreign embassies, interna- tional institutions, and nonresidents. External ac- counts in U.S. dollars may be opened by both resi- dents and nonresidents with the commercial banks. Such accounts may be credited with foreign ex- change transferred from abroad and may be debited for any external payment. Residents may transfer funds to other external accounts. Funds in such accounts may be used for invisible payments under existing regulations, as well as for merchandise im- port payments. All transactions between residents and nonresidents taking place through these exter- nal accounts are effected at the official exchange rate. Exporters of goods and services may deposit 40 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds from exports in export/import accounts. Funds in such accounts may be sold to importers holding export/ import accounts and be used only for merchandise import payments. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products, crude oil and petroleum products, medical and pharmaceuti- cal products, explosives, precious metals and jewelry, and minerals are subject to prior approval. All other items, with the exception of items pro- hibited for reasons of public safety and social policy, may be imported freely. The Somali Oil Refinery is responsible for the import of crude petroleum, and the National Petroleum Agency is responsible for imports of other fuels and fuel products. Importa- tion and distribution of petroleum products by capa- ble entrepreneurs in the private sector are permit- ted, provided that they have safe storage and distribution facilities. 1 Deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, French francs, Italian lire, Kuwaiti dinars, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, and U.A.E. dirhams. 2This bilateral payments agreement has been inoperative since 1977. 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 434 SOMALIA All payments for private imports must be effected through letters of credit. Private importers may open letters of credit for imports at the commercial bank on the basis of foreign exchange made avail- able for that purpose through a foreign currency account with the commercial bank; in such a case, the foreign exchange involved is kept in a suspense account until the time of settlement of the letter of credit. A non-interest-bearing advance deposit of 100 percent is required to open letters of credit for private sector imports; the deposit is retained until the letters of credit are settled. Funds under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program Credits of the International Development Association (IDA) are disbursed through a sale mechanism, under which importers submit re- quests for'foreign exchange, to be accompanied by a 10 percent nonrefundable levy on the amount re- quested. The official exchange rate applies to these transactions. If the requests for foreign exchange exceed the available funds, foreign exchange is allo- cated proportionally among importers. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Payments for current invisibles through ex- ternal accounts, as well as through the commercial bank selling foreign exchange on its own account, are subject to licensing to prevent unauthorized capital transfers. Transfers of salaries, wages, gra- tuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the For- eign Investment Law are allowed up to 50 percent. The Central Bank provides foreign exchange only for official travel expenses. Foreign exchange for private travel expenses is allowed to be purchased only from holders of external accounts with the approval of the Central Bank, subject to the follow- ing limits: (1) education allowances, US$1,000 a year; (2) business and tourist travel, US$200 a per- son a trip; and (3) medical treatment, US$3,000 a year. The Central Bank may approve applications for larger amounts in exceptional cases. Nonresidents are required to pay an airport departure tax of US$20, and residents, So. Sh 1,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Bananas are exported only by SOMALFRUIT (previously, the National Banana Board). The export of various types of ivory, hides and skins, and minerals is subject to prior approval. All export proceeds must be repatriated. Export- ers may retain 40 percent of their foreign exchange receipts in export/import accounts and must sur- render the remainder to the Central Bank or to the authorized dealer. For exports other than those made under letter of credit arrangements, an ad- vance payment deposit of 100 percent of the value of exports is required. A tax of 25 percent is levied on exports of livestock, on the basis of minimum export prices used for purposes of duty collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are subject to repatria- tion and declaration. Exporters of services may re- tain up to 40 percent of their foreign exchange re- ceipts in external accounts; they must surrender the remainder to the Central Bank or to the authorized dealer within five business days of their receipt. Nonresidents may freely bring in with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh 200 in Somali bank notes and coins; they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Nonresident Somalis and foreign national travelers without diplomatic status are required to convert at least US$100 or its equivalent to Somali shillings at the airport branch of the Commercial and Savings Bank on behalf of the Central Bank upon arrival. Unspent foreign exchange may be taken out of the country without restriction. Resident travelers may bring in up to So. Sh 200 in Somali bank notes and coin and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare any foreign exchange they bring in and to deposit it in external accounts or sell it to the commercial bank at the official exchange rate upon arrival. Capital Capital transactions are subject to licensing un- less they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960, as amended in January 1977 and May 1987. The amended Foreign Investment Law stipulates priorities for foreign investments in the agricultural, livestock raising, fishing, mining, tourism, and industrial and service sectors. Under this law, investments may be made, apart from transfer of convertible currency, in the form of ma- chinery, equipment, current production inputs, and intangibles (patent rights, trademarks, and studies and documentation prepared in connection with the intended investment). There are no out- right and sectoral restrictions to foreign investment or phase-out provisions, nor does the law preclude the possibility of participating, or acquiring stock, in an existing Somali enterprise. Proposed foreign investment is reviewed for ap- proval in each case within a 60-day period by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA 435 Foreign Investment Board, which has final au- thority over all matters concerning foreign invest- ment. The Foreign Investment Board is assisted by the Foreign Investment Promotion Office, which provides advice and guidance to the foreign inves- tor on Somalia's legal, regulatory, and institutional framework, and assists at the incorporation and setting-up stages. The original foreign investment and any reinvested profit may be registered in con- vertible currency. There are no restrictions on rein- vestment of profit. Profit is freely transferable, and profit not transferred, or portions of it, may be trans- ferred in any subsequent years. Foreign investment (original investment plus any profit reinvested) can be freely repatriated five years from the date of the registration of the original investment. Repatriation can be effected in convertible currency or, at the investor's option, in the form of physical assets. The Foreign Investment Board may reduce the above- mentioned five-year period. Capital gains resulting from the sale of shares of liquidation of assets are freely transferable, after payment of normal taxes. The Law restricts the possibility of expropriation only to cases where public interest cannot be satis- fied by measures other than expropriation. In such cases, prompt and freely transferable compensation is payable in an amount that reflects the invest- ment's fair market value as a going concern. Investment disputes are settled in a manner to be agreed upon with the investor, or in the absence of such agreement, under the agreements in force be- tween the investor's home country and Somalia or, in their absence, under the 1985 World Bank Con- vention for the Settlement of Investment Disputes. In case none is applicable, the Law provides for resolution by a three-member arbitration board, whose chairman is to be appointed by agreement or, in its absence, by the President of Somalia's Supreme Court. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for numismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the permission of the Central Bank; such permission is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down within one month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold are exempt from customs duty when originating in European Com- munities (EC) countries; imports from elsewhere are subject to a 10 percent duty. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement June 20. The Government announced that the Somali shilling would be pegged to a basket of cur- rencies of Somalia's main trading partners, and the Somalia shilling was depreciated by 44.4 percent in foreign currency terms to So. Sh 180 per US$1. August 7. The Government announced that the official exchange rate would be adjusted weekly to reflect changes in cross rates of currencies in the basket and to adjust for the relative rate of inflation in Somalia and in its main trading partners, retroac- tive to June 1, 1988. August 7. A dual foreign exchange market was instituted, with exporters required to surrender 60 percent of their export earnings at the official rate; the remaining 40 percent may be retained by exporters and would be credited to their foreign exchange accounts with the Commercial and Sav- ings Bank of Somalia. Holders of foreign exchange accounts (exporters, importers, and recipients of foreign remittances) are now allowed to trade in foreign exchange for imports at rates to be negoti- ated freely among them. Moreover, there are no restrictions on the final use of foreign exchange by resident external account holders (i.e., foreign ex- change accounts with proceeds from foreign remittances). Imports and Import Payments November 10. A new mechanism for allocating commodity imports under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program Credits of the IDA was intro- duced, under which importers' requests to pur- chase foreign exchange are to be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee equivalent to 10 percent of the amount requested. If the requests for foreign ex- change exceed the available funds, foreign ex- change is allocated proportionally among im- porters. The official exchange rate applies to these transactions. Under this system, the Central Bank publishes the names of applicants, the amounts requested and allocated, and the goods to be imported. Payments for Invisibles August 7. An airport departure tax of US$20 for nonresidents and So. Sh 1,000 for residents was introduced. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of South Africa is the South African Rand. The authorities of South Africa do not main- tain margins in respect of exchange transactions but intervene in the exchange market to affect the rates quoted by the commercial banks for the "commer- cial" rand. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. On December 30,1988, the commer- cial banks' spot rates for the U.S. dollar in transac- tions with the public were US$0.42050 buying and US$0.42034 selling, per R 1. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange opera- tions, including cover for transactions by nonresi- dents, on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Au- thorized dealers are permitted to provide forward exchange cover in any foreign currency to residents for any firm and ascertained foreign exchange commitments/accruals due to/by nonresidents aris- ing from authorized trade and nontrade transac- tions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments/ accruals. Forward exchange cover may also be provided to nonresidents subject to certain limita- tions. The Reserve Bank of South Africa provides forward cover in U.S. dollars only; such cover is given to authorized dealers for maturities not ex- ceeding 12 months at a time in the form of rand-U.S. dollar swap transactions with a margin based on an interest rate differential between the U.S. dollar and the rand. Special rand forward cover at preferential rates is provided by the Reserve Bank in respect of import financing offered to and accepted by South African importers. Such special forward cover must coincide with the redemption date of relevant fi- nancing and may not be canceled prior to maturity. Forward cover for periods in excess of 12 months is available at market rates in certain freely transfer- able currencies in respect of long-term offshore fi- nancing for capital goods imports and in respect of affected indebtedness converted into long-term loans. In addition, special rand "offsetting" forward cover at preferential rates may be applied to swap transactions in respect of preshipment financing for South African exporters. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Abolished on February 7, 1983 and reintroduced on September 2, 1985 (without the participation of Swaziland), the freely floating "financial" rand de- rives from the local sale and redemption proceeds of South African securities and other investments in South Africa owned by nonresidents, capital remit- tances by emigrants and immigrants, and approved outward capital transfers by residents. The ex- change rate for the financial rand is usually at a discount from the commercial rand rate; at the end of 1988, the discount was about 39 percent, and the closing midpoint exchange rate of the financial rand in terms of the U.S. dollar on December 30,1988 was R 3.855 = US$1. South Africa formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Arti- cles of Agreement, as from September 15, 1973. Exchange Control Territory There are virtually no exchange or trade restric- tions between the Republic of South Africa (defined for exchange control purposes as including South West Africa), Bophuthatswana, Ciskei, Lesotho, Swaziland, Transkei, and Venda, and these form, with the Republic of South Africa, a single exchange control territory, the Common Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the South African Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has delegated much of its powers to the autho- rized dealers. Import and export permits are gener- ally issued by the Director of Import and Export Control acting on behalf of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Technology. Exchange for licensed im- ports is made available by the authorized dealers upon proof of shipment or, where advance payment is proposed, upon presentation of other documen- tary evidence, which must include the prior ap- proval of the Reserve Bank.1 Arrears are maintained with respect to certain external payments. Prescription of Currency All countries outside the Common Monetary Area constitute the Nonresident Area. The rand is Authorized dealers can permit, without Reserve Bank ap- proval, advance payment of up to 33Va percent of the ex-factory cost of capital goods, if suppliers require it. 436 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 437 legal tender in Lesotho but not in Swaziland.2 Set- tlements by/to residents of the Common Monetary Area with the Nonresident Area may be made in rand to and from a Nonresident Account and in any foreign currency.3 Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of nonresidents4 are divided into Nonresident Accounts, Financial Rand Ac- counts, and Emigrant Blocked Accounts. Nonresident Accounts may be credited with all au- thorized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of foreign currency, and with payments from other Nonresident Accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to Common Monetary Area residents for any purpose (other than loans); for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, that is, by transfer to a local Nonresident Account, or for remittance to any country outside the Common Monetary Area; for the cost of purchases of any foreign currency; and for payments to the account holder while temporarily resident in South Africa for short periods. Financial Rand Accounts are the accounts of non- residents of the Common Monetary Area to which exchange control restrictions have been applied. Such accounts are maintained with authorized banks. They must be credited with the local sale and redemption proceeds of South African securities and other investments in South Africa owned by nonresidents. Immigrants (excluding former South African residents) arriving after September 1, 1985 may, without Reserve Bank approval, during the first three years of their residence, introduce their capital through the medium of the financial rand. The release locally of up to R 200,000 of these funds per family unit is permitted during the first three years of residence. Dealers on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange are permitted to quote prices for financial rand, and its members are permitted to buy and sell financial rand as agents, acting on behalf of nonresidents. Authorized banks are freely permitted to transfer financial rand balances from 2Lilangeni bank notes issued by Swaziland are freely convert- ible into rand, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. Maloti bank notes issued by Lesotho are freely convertible into rand at par, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. 3Foreign currency, foreign exchange, exchange, and specified currency mean any currency other than currency that is legal tender in the Republic of South Africa but exclude the currencies of Lesotho and Swaziland. 4A nonresident is a person (i.e., a natural person or legal entity) whose normal place of residence, domicile, or registration is outside the Common Monetary Area. one Financial Rand Account on their books to an- other, on their own books or on the books of another authorized bank. Funds in these accounts may be used freely for reinvestment in locally quoted se- curities (which may be exported and sold abroad) or for acquiring quoted central government, munici- pal, or public utility stocks. On application and ap- proval, financial rand may be used by nonresidents for the purchase of other assets. The local sale pro- ceeds of South African securities held by immi- grants before their arrival in South Africa, or ac- quired abroad within three years of their arrival, are also credited to Financial Rand Accounts. Emigrant Blocked Accounts are the accounts of emi- grants from the Common Monetary Area to which exchange control restrictions have been applied. They must be credited with any cash held at the time of departure and with the proceeds of any other South African asset held at the time of depar- ture and subsequently sold. Such funds may not be transferred from South Africa or to another Emi- grant Blocked Account in South Africa, but may be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer, used within certain limits for the holder's living expenses while visiting South Africa, or for other specified payments to residents, or be invested in any se- curities that are quoted locally; such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad. Imports and Import Payments Goods subject to import control are listed in Schedule I of the Import Control Regulations pub- lished on December 23, 1988. All importers requiring import permits for trade or manufacturing purposes must be registered with the Director of Import and Export Control. The per- mits are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of permit include all goods imported from Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, and Swaziland, which were grown, produced, or manufactured in these countries, with the exception of sugar from Swazi- land and a limited range of agricultural products from Malawi. An importer is automatically granted exchange to pay for current imports upon presenting to his bank the necessary consignment documents (proof of im- portation) and an import permit where required. Payments prior to the date of shipment or dispatch are not normally allowed, except with prior ap- proval or special authorization by the Reserve Bank (see footnote 1). With certain exceptions, imports are subject to a general sales tax of 12 percent,5 as 5The general sales tax has been raised to 13 percent, with effect from March 20, 1989. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 438 SOUTH AFRICA are locally produced goods. On August 15, 1988, the 10 percent import surcharge system was re- placed by a differential system of varying rates rang- ing from 15 percent on certain foodstuffs to 60 percent on nonessential luxury imports. Payments for Invisibles Authority is delegated to the authorized dealers to approve certain current payments for invisibles without limitation and for others up to established limits. Applications for amounts in excess of these limits are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. For current income payments, such as de- clared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South Africa, approval is given by the authorized dealers without reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that the relevant royalty agreement was approved by the Department of Trade and Industry and the Reserve Bank, and provided the remittance of profits and dividends is based on earnings gener- ated after January 1, 1984 and does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable consideration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income earned from se- curities held by nonresidents is freely transferable to the owner's country of residence. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, family maintenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a year is R 10,000 for an adult and R 5,000 for a child under 12 years. Separately, there is an annual basic ex- change allocation of R 4,000 for an adult (R 2,000 for a child under 12) for travel to neighboring countries, i.e., Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. In addition to the tourist allowances, authorized dealers may grant allowances for business trips overseas at a rate not exceeding R 750 a day, with a maximum of R 15,000 in a calendar year. The separate applicable al- lowance for business trips to the neighboring ter- ritories mentioned above is R 8,000 a year, at a rate not exceeding R 600 a day. Residents leaving South Africa for destinations outside the Common Monetary Area may take the full applicable allowance in foreign bank notes. The amount of South African Reserve Bank notes, however, may not exceed R 200, but this is not regarded as being part of the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa may take with them up to R 200 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes that they brought into the country or obtained from the disposal of instru- ments of exchange that they brought to and ex- changed in South Africa. These limitations on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of contract workers returning to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take with them reasonable amounts in bank notes. There are no limitations on the export of domestic currency to Lesotho and Swaziland. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities considered as being in relatively short supply or controlled for strategic reasons require export permits for their sales to buyers outside the Common Customs Area (combined areas of Botswana, Lesotho, South Af- rica, and Swaziland). Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa and surrendered within six months from the date of shipment or seven days from the date of accrual. To ensure a more effective application of exchange control pro- cedures regarding the repatriation of export pro- ceeds, exporters are required to cover forward their export proceeds within seven days of shipment. Authorized dealers may permit exporters to grant credit up to 12 months, provided the credit is neces- sary in the particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or to capture a new export market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days from the date of accrual, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry from countries outside the Common Monetary Area, residents and nonresidents may bring in R 200 in South African Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the import of domestic currency from Lesotho and Swaziland. Capital6 All inward loan transfers require specific ap- proval,7 whereas inward transfers for investment in 6Securities are defined as including not only quoted stocks, shares, debentures, and rights, but also unquoted shares in public companies, shares in private companies, government, municipal, and public utility stocks, non-resident-owned mort- gage bonds, or participations in mortgage bonds. The terms "scrip" and "share certificates" include any temporary or sub- stitute documents of title, such as letters of allotment, option certificates, balance receipts, and any other receipts for scrip. 7Approval is generally given for borrowing abroad with a maturity of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs, except for speculation or consumer credit. Authorized dealers are gen- erally permitted to raise funds abroad in their own names for the financing of South African foreign trade and other approved purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 439 equity capital are freely permitted. Foreign ex- change accruing to residents from capital transfers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents to destinations out- side the Common Monetary Area require the ap- proval of the Reserve Bank. Local borrowing by non- resident-owned or non-resident-controlled firms is subject to limitation. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South African (or other) shares on for- eign stock exchanges are generally not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 5,000 through financial rand for each shareholder, to allow South African residents to exercise rights arising from ex- isting holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South African stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain condi- tions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Applications by South African residents to retain in, or transfer to, countries outside the Common Monetary Area funds for bona fide long-term in- vestment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects that are owned or controlled by South Africans are considered by the Reserve Bank on their merits. Investments de- signed to foster exports and to maintain or expand markets abroad are normally viewed favorably. Immigrants are required to furnish the exchange control authorities with a complete return of their foreign assets and liabilities at the time of their arrival. Any foreign assets transferred to South Af- rica may, through the same channel, be re- transferred abroad within the first three years after arrival. The proceeds of the sale of quoted or unquoted South African securities, real estate, and other eq- uity investments by nonresidents of South Africa to residents must be credited to Financial Rand Ac- counts and are accordingly transferable through this medium. Emigrant families are entitled to the normal travel allowance at the rate for commercial rand and are permitted to remit up to R 100,000 (R 50,000 for single persons) through the medium of financial rand. Any balance exceeding the permissible trans- ferable amount must be credited to an Emigrant Blocked Account. Up to R 300,000 of income earned on emigrants' blocked assets may be transferred through normal banking channels or credited to a Nonresident Account. Any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount must be credited to a Financial Rand Account. The total net income earned from such a Financial Rand Account is eligi- ble for transfer in addition to the R 300,000 men- tioned above. An emigrant family or an individual can export one motor vehicle, with a maximum value of R 40,000, provided that it was purchased at least one year prior to emigration, and can export other household and personal effects up to a value of R 40,000 for each family, provided that such goods, other than clothing, have been in the emi- grant's possession for a period of not less than one year. New immigrants may transfer abroad during the first three years of residence assets valued at up to R 200,000. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by non-resident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or approved loan account balances,8 current profits earned after January 1, 1984, and dividends declared on profits from trading generated after January 1, 1984, provided that the remittance does not involve the excessive use of local credit facilities. The physical export from South Africa of non- resident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants. Gold Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic and investment purposes. With this exception, resi- dents of South Africa other than the monetary au- thorities, authorized dealers, registered gold pro- ducers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. The approval authority has been del- egated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler up to a value of R 40,000 (subject to a written dec- laration to the effect that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's return); and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers (except for exports to Botswana, Malawi, Zambia, and Zimbabwe), subject to a written dec- laration that the articles are in fully manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 80 percent of the selling price to the ultimate consignee. Furthermore, after reference and ap- proval by the Reserve Bank, residents are allowed to export currency coins, including certain gold coins, for sale to numismatists. The gold mining industry must sell its output to the Reserve Bank within one month of production. The arrangement whereby the Reserve Bank paid the gold mines in U.S. dollars for 50 percent of their total sales, with the balance 8Subject, however, to the standstill arrangements, where applicable. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 440 SOUTH AFRICA settled in rand, was canceled with effect from December 9, 1985. From this date, the mines have been paid in rand only. As a special concession, the industry may retain approximately one third of its production for the minting of gold coins and kilo bars. The Mint from time to time strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand without a face value, which are legal tender but do not circulate in South Africa; these are made available in limited numbers to resi- dent collectors. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement December 12. The following changes were an- nounced: (1) special rand forward cover at preferen- tial rates was permitted in respect of import financ- ing offered to and accepted by South African importers; (2) long-term forward cover for periods exceeding one year is available at market rates in certain freely transferable international currencies in respect of long-term offshore financing for capital goods imports and in respect of affected indebted- ness converted into long-term loans; and (3) special rand "offsetting" forward cover at preferential rates was permitted to be applied to swap transactions in respect of preshipment financing for South African exporters. Imports and Import Payments July 29. The Preferential Trade Agreement with Turkey reinstated (after suspension in March 1988 of the original agreement of January 1,1988) 3 percent customs tariffs on products imported from Turkey. August 15. The system of import surcharges was modified from a uniform rate of 10 percent to a differential system of variable rates, ranging from 15 percent (on certain foodstuffs) to 60 percent on non-essential luxury products. Capital February 23. The authority of authorized dealers to release to immigrants, during their first three years of residence, up to R 100,000 per family unit of assets that can be transferred through the medium of South African securities/financial rand was made conditional on the immigrant being in possession of a permanent resident permit. July 22. Certain authorized dealers were granted permission to deal in financial rand for their own account, but not for speculative purposes, in order to facilitate their customers' requirements in respect of small amounts. August 10. Special restricted rand accounts were redesignated nonresident accounts. August 15. Transfer abroad of income earned by emigrants by means of commercial rand was limited to R 300,000 per calendar year; any excess over this amount was required to be credited to a financial rand account. November 30. The following changes were an- nounced: (1) limit of R 2,000 that can be transferred through financial rand allowing South African resi- dents to exercise rights arising from existing hold- ings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges was increased to R 5,000; (2) value of motor vehicle that emigrant family or individual may export was increased from R 20,000 to R 40,000; (3) value of household and personal effects that may be exported by an emigrant family was increased from R 20,000 to R 40,000; and (4) limit on assets new immigrants may retransfer abroad during the first three years of residence was increased from R 100,000 to R 200,000. Gold November 30. The limit on the value of exports of jewelry by South African travelers was increased from R 20,000 to R 40,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Spain is the Spanish Peseta. The authorities of Spain do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the foreign exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates and to maintain orderly conditions in the ex- change market. Following its routine monitoring of foreign exchange market developments in the course of the morning, the Bank of Spain meets each working day around noon in an official session with the commercial banks, at which the latter trade freely in foreign exchange among themselves. By adding a certain margin to the weighted average exchange rate in these transactions, the Bank of Spain calculates the officially quoted exchange rates for specified currencies,1 and they are published daily. These rates are the maximum offer and bid rates to be applied by commercial banks to customers in transactions smaller than Ptas 20 mil- lion (exchange rates for larger transactions are deter- mined freely). Authorized banks are allowed to operate in for- eign markets for spot and forward transactions. All future transactions involving an identifiable ex- change risk are eligible for forward cover. There are no limits on periods to be covered, except that com- mercial banks are not authorized to provide cover for periods shorter than one month in cases where the nonresident is selling forward an already exist- ing convertible peseta balance. There are no limits on forward or spot foreign currency positions of individual banks, except those stemming indirectly from prudential rules on maximum net foreign ex- change exposure. Under existing regulations, con- solidated net foreign exchange exposure must not exceed a percentage of the consolidated own re- sources of each banking group that is determined by the Bank of Spain. Spain formally accepted the obligations of Ar- ticle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from July 15, 1986. 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Jap- anese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and European Currency Units (ECUs). 441 Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The Ministry of Economy and Finance, through the Directorate-General of External Transactions, handles exchange control regulations, including those pertaining to trade and invisible transactions, foreign investment, investment abroad by Spanish residents, and domestic borrowing by foreigners. The Bank of Spain handles the foreign exchange market (both spot and forward), regulates and su- pervises commercial banks' activities, and is re- sponsible for all nontrade foreign borrowing (both short-term and long-term) by domestic residents. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transac- tions and invisibles may be made in convertible pesetas or in any of the currencies specified in foot- note 1, but they are usually made in the currency of the country of origin or destination. Nonresident Accounts As of December 1985, accounts affected by the regulations on nonresident accounts are either con- vertible accounts or ordinary accounts. Convertible Peseta Accounts. Convertible Peseta Ac- counts may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency bank notes only in certain cases in the Spanish foreign currency market, with authorized payments made by residents to nonresidents as a result of any balance of payments transactions, with accrued interest on such accounts, and with trans- fers from other such accounts. Convertible Peseta Accounts may be debited for purchases of equiv- alent amounts of foreign currency and bank notes in the Spanish foreign currency market, for authorized payments in pesetas to residents as a result of any balance of payments transactions, for cash drawings by nonresidents, and for transfers to other peseta accounts. Under temporary restrictions introduced in April 1987 aimed at countering short-term capital inflows, banks are forbidden to pay interest on bal- ances on Convertible Peseta Accounts exceeding ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 442 SPAIN Ptas 10 million. Convertible peseta balances are sub- ject to a reserve requirement. Balances in Convert- ible Peseta Accounts are eligible for forward cover in the forward exchange market in Spain. Ordinary Peseta Accounts (Royal Decree 1723/85 and Resolution of December 20, 1985) can be cred- ited freely. Balances in such accounts, which are not convertible, may be utilized to cover tourist ex- penses in Spain, as well as investments that can qualify as foreign investments; transfer rights for such investments, financed by ordinary pesetas, require the fulfillment of certain conditions (e.g., a three-year maintenance period for the transfer of principal, proof of the legal origin of the funds de- posited, and verification in the General Directorate). Imports and Import Payments As a general rule, imports may be made freely into Spain. However, imports of certain goods (e.g., color television sets, tractors, explosives, carpets, sewing machines, plastics, seed oil, gold, etc.) are subject to authorization by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the country of origin or when imported from specific geographical areas (with distinctions being made between Euro- pean Communities (EC) countries, Portugal, Euro- pean Free Trade Association (EFTA)-Mediterranean and ACP2 countries, General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) member countries, and state- trading countries). Foreign exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. All import transactions must be domiciled with an au- thorized bank, and the import payment must be made through the bank of domiciliation; exempt from domiciliation are transactions valued at less than Ptas 0.5 million, provided that payment is to be made within one year. Payments for Invisibles Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely for listed current invisibles, pro- vided that the request is supported by appropriate documents to verify the authenticity of the transac- tion. Holders of Spanish securities may freely trans- fer abroad accrued interest, dividends, and pro- ceeds from the disposal of subscription rights. Purchasers of securities bought with internal pese- tas must hold them for three years to qualify to 2African, Caribbean, and Pacific State signatories to the Lome Convention with the EC. transfer abroad the proceeds from the liquidation of such securities. Profits and dividends on direct in- vestments and rents on non-resident-owned real estate are freely transferable abroad. A general li- cense permits the reinsurance abroad of risks in- sured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Unless special authorization is otherwise granted, insur- ance contracts abroad are restricted to cover for ex- ports and imports of goods and related operations. Payments up to Ptas 50,000 for any purpose may be made without supporting documents. There are no limits on foreign exchange purchases for tourism (the maximum limit on foreign exchange allowances was removed in March 1987). However, the export of bank notes or coins in excess of the equivalent of Ptas 350,000 in foreign currency and in excess of Ptas 100,000 in domestic currency must be reported and requires the prior approval of the Directorate- General of External Transactions. Proceeds from the liquidation of foreign invest- ments are freely transferable abroad, provided that they were not financed from Ordinary Peseta Accounts. Exports and Export Proceeds As a general rule, exports may be made freely. However, exports of a limited number of goods (e.g., textiles, steel, some copper by-products, etc.) require prior authorization by the Directorate- General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the area of destination or when exported to certain geograph- ical areas (with distinctions being made between EC countries, Portugal, and third countries). Exporters may maintain foreign exchange ac- counts with resident banks and credit the accounts with up to 25 percent of the export proceeds. The balance may be used by the account holder subject to exchange control regulations. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold in the exchange market through autho- rized banks within 15 days of receipt. Capital For most direct foreign investments effected through participation in Spanish companies, prior verification is required only if participation exceeds 50 percent. Irrespective of the size of companies, such investments need to be communicated to the Directorate-General of External Transactions for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 443 verification, and can be considered approved in the absence of a response after 30 days. Special authori- zation is required for foreign investment in strategic sectors (such as defense-related industries, strategic minerals, and telecommunications ser- vices), and in television, radio, air transport, and gambling. Foreign investments for the acquisition of branches or real estate are not subject to restriction if financed with convertible currencies; with the same exceptions as for participation in Spanish com- panies, such investments only need to be communi- cated to the Directorate-General of External Trans- actions for verification, and can be considered as approved in the absence of a response after 30 days. Purchases of real estate with a balance in Ordinary Nonresident Accounts are considered foreign in- vestments and are subject to the same regulations as those applicable to foreign investments made through these accounts. Nonresidents may freely purchase shares and bonds; however, issuance by banks of certificates of deposit denominated in convertible pesetas are sub- ject to authorization. Short-term commercial sup- pliers' credits may be contracted without restriction. The contracting of medium-term suppliers' credits with nonresident EC nationals requires prior ad- ministrative verification, and the contracting of other types of suppliers' credit is subject to prior authorization. Individuals and juridical persons residing in Spain may freely negotiate financial loans in foreign currency or convertible pesetas, subject to com- pliance with the following conditions: (1) the amount of the loan does not exceed Ptas 1.5 million; (2) the average maturity of the loan is at least three years, starting from the date of the first disburse- ment (foreign currency borrowing with shorter ma- turity is subject to authorization); (3) the loan is denominated in one of the convertible foreign cur- rencies quoted on the Spanish foreign exchange market or in convertible pesetas, and will remain in that currency until maturity; and (4) the resident borrower is not a Spanish branch of the nonresident lending institution. Loans may be freely amortized three years following the date of disbursement. The borrower may, at any time, transfer the domicilia- tion of the loan to another authorized institution, in which case, at the request of the borrower, the cur- rent authorized institution of domiciliation must transmit directly to the new bank of domiciliation the original Bank of Spain document on which all movements of funds effected through that institu- tion are recorded. Direct investments abroad are defined according to Organization for Economic Cooperation and De- velopment (OECD) guidelines, taking into account whether an effective control over the foreign com- pany has been obtained. Effective control is deemed to exist if the share of the Spanish investment is at least 20 percent of the foreign company's capital or if the Directorate-General of External Transactions considers that an important or predominant source of influence exists. Direct investments are defined to include the participation in a foreign company, as well as in the increase in its capital, the establish- ment of branches and subsidiaries, and the grant- ing of long-term loans, with a view to maintaining or establishing lasting economic links. Direct investments abroad are permitted freely. Direct investment projects, however, must be com- municated to the Directorate-General of External Transactions for verification and statistical control. If no administrative notification is received after 30 days following the submission of application, it may be considered approved. Direct investments must be carried out within 6 months, unless an extension is authorized. Real estate investments abroad can be made freely. Reinvestments of the principal of a previous di- rect investment in a new direct or liberalized port- folio investment are free of restrictions, but require prior verification in the former case (except when the purpose of the new direct investment is identi- cal to that of the previous one). Portfolio investments are defined as the purchase of securities issued by nonresidents (irrespective of the market of issuance) or issued by residents in a foreign market, when the remaining maturity peri- ods of these securities are longer than two years. Securities are defined to include equity, fixed- or floating-rate instruments, or participations in in- vestment trusts. Residents are free to purchase, without prior authorization or verification, se- curities denominated in foreign currencies (of- ficially quoted in the Spanish foreign exchange mar- ket), which are either quoted in a domestic or foreign stock exchange or negotiated in an "organized market." There are no limits on the pur- chase of securities issued by Spanish borrowers or by the international organizations of which Spain is a member. In the case of other foreign securities, the outstanding stock held by residents must not ex- ceed Ptas 5 million or 30 percent of the investor's reported net wealth (individuals), own resources (registered financial institutions), or capital and re- serves (other institutions), whichever is larger.3 3This limit was eliminated at the end of 1988. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 444 SPAIN Securities must be deposited with designated Span- ish financial intermediaries for tax-reporting and withholding purposes. All returns on foreign in- vestments must be converted into pesetas through those intermediaries. International organizations of which Spain is a member are authorized to borrow in pesetas in the domestic capital market, with the proceeds being considered fully convertible. Other than that, finan- cial loans by residents to nonresidents require prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Fi- nance. The same applies to long-term (more than five years' maturity) and medium-term (between one and five years' maturity) commercial credits by residents to nonresidents. Medium-term commer- cial credits extended to EC importers are exempt from this requirement. Short-term commercial credits, as well as all types of financial or commer- cial credits extended by authorized banks and funded through nonresidents' convertible currency deposits in those banks, are free of restrictions. Nonbank residents are not allowed to hold foreign currency deposits with resident banks or foreign currency (and peseta) deposits with nonresident banks without prior approval. Proceeds from the sale of real estate are transfer- able abroad, provided that they were not financed from Ordinary Peseta Accounts. Proceeds, includ- ing capital gains, from the liquidation of shares and bonds may be transferred abroad; however, if the purchase was made with internal pesetas, the owner of the shares must hold them for three years, after which he may transfer the liquidation proceeds abroad. Gold Acquisition of gold is subject to authorization of the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Imports in the form of bullion are permitted, if they are used as raw materials for manufactured goods. Imports of gold in manufactured forms (e.g., coins, medals, etc.) may be subject to quantitative restrictions, de- pending on the country of origin. Purchases of gold, silver, and platinum ingots are subject to a value- added tax at the rate of 33 percent. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments4 January 1. Tariff cuts on a wide range of products became effective, generally averaging 15 percent, in accordance with the provisions of Spain's Treaty of Accession to the European Communities. March 8. Tin plates (CN headings 7210/2/11, 7210/70/11, and 7212/10/10) were added to the list of steel products whose importation was already re- stricted in accordance with GATT Article XIX and as specified under Circular No. 9 of December 21,1987 of the Office of the Secretary of State for Trade (5821 Circular No. 12, published in Boletin Oficial del Estado No. 58). October 1. Tariff cuts on a wide range of products, generally averaging 15 percent, originally sched- uled to be implemented on January 1,1989 in accor- dance with the provisions of Spain's Treaty of Ac- cession to the European Communities, were implemented ahead of schedule. Exports and Export Proceeds May 10. Exporters were allowed to maintain for- eign exchange accounts with resident banks and to credit the accounts with up to 25 percent of the export proceeds. The balance may be used by the account holder, subject to exchange control regulations. Capital June 10. The minimum maturity period of foreign currency borrowing not subject to official authoriza- tion was raised from one to three years. December 19. Direct investments abroad in com- panies engaged in portfolio and real estate invest- ment activities were permitted. December 19. The ceilings on real estate invest- ments abroad were abolished. 4See Appendix for a summary of antidumping duties, coun- tervailing charges, and import surveillance measures introduced or eliminated by the European Economic Community during 1988, page 561. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka Rupee, for which the U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. The exchange rate of the Sri Lanka rupee is determined daily by the Central Bank, taking ac- count of domestic price developments relative to those of Sri Lanka's six major trading partners (France, the Federal Republic of Germany, India, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States), as well as those of neighboring and competitor countries. The Central Bank determines daily the spot buying and selling rates of the U.S. dollar against the Sri Lanka rupee for its transactions with the commercial banks; it purchases and sells the U.S. dollar on a spot basis at the buying and selling rates so established. On December 31, 1988, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were SL Rs 33.0175 and SL Rs 33.0475, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The commercial banks provide a forward ex- change market for commercial transactions in which rates are freely determined. Commercial banks are required to buy forward foreign exchange proceeds from all exporters whenever exports exceed SL Rs 500,000, whether or not exporters avail them- selves of the Central Bank's export refinance facili- ties. They may cover such purchases by selling for- ward to their clients (i.e., importers and shipping agents) or to other authorized dealers. The average contract for the sale of foreign exchange to im- porters must not exceed a period of 180 days. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka provides forward cover to commercial banks in U.S. dollars for their sales in respect of essential imports and purchase of foreign exchange for a period up to three months. The Cen- tral Bank quotes forward buying rates taking into account interest differentials, but does not quote forward selling rates. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Depart- ment of Exchange Control of the Central Bank as agent of the Government. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made through commercial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance with the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. The Foreign Investment Advisory Committee handles applications relating to foreign investment in areas other than those coming within the pur- view of the Greater Colombo Economic Commis- sion (GCEC), which administers the Investment Promotion Zone. Prescription of Currency Payments to, and receipts from, member coun- tries of the Asian Clearing Union (i.e., Bangladesh, Burma, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Nepal, and Pakistan) in respect of current transactions must be effected in Asian Monetary Units or in the currency of the respective member of the Asian Clearing Union. For settlements with all other countries, pay- ments for imports may be made in any foreign cur- rency or in Sri Lanka rupees. Other payments may be made either in the currency of the country to which the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to an External Rupee Account. Proceeds from exports must be received in designated foreign currencies.1 Other receipts may be accepted in Sri Lanka rupees from an External Rupee Account or in a designated foreign currency (see footnote 1). Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Sri Lanka rupees may be held in any commercial bank in Sri Lanka by (1) nonnationals resident outside Sri Lanka; (2) firms and companies registered outside Sri Lanka; (3) Sri Lanka nationals resident outside Sri Lanka, who are classified for this purpose into two categories (those whose current or savings accounts are redesignated as nonresident accounts following their departure, and those whose accounts are opened after their departure); (4) emigrants; and (5) foreign banks. The opening of these accounts for categories (1) and (2), the crediting of the initial and subse- quent deposits arising from inward remittances, and debits for local disbursements may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 446 SRI LANKA Exchange Control; however, local credits to these accounts and debits for remittances abroad require the prior approval of the Department. The opening and redesignating of accounts in category (3), credits arising from inward remittances, and local credits and debits to such accounts may be effected without the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control; debits of these accounts for re- mittances abroad without exchange control ap- proval are not permitted. Accounts in category (4) are designated in the first instance as nonresi- dent blocked accounts only when instructions to that effect are received from the Department of Ex- change Control. Local debits to such accounts may be effected without the prior approval of the Depart- ment of Exchange Control; however, local credits to them and debits for outward remittances require the prior approval of the Department. Under cate- gory (5) foreign banks may be permitted to open and operate nonresident accounts with a local com- mercial bank without the prior approval of the De- partment of Exchange Control. Nonresident blocked accounts are used for hold- ing funds that have not been accepted for transfer abroad, usually funds owned by nonresidents, re- patriates, and emigrants. Authorized dealers are permitted to debit these accounts for local disburse- ments and credit them on account of pensions, in- come tax refunds, and profits and dividends with- out prior approval. Funds in blocked accounts may be invested in any local enterprise without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Subject to exchange control approval, proceeds from the liqui- dation of such investments can be credited to blocked accounts. Remittances up to a maximum of SL Rs 350,000 are allowed from these accounts with- out the prior approval of the exchange control au- thorities. Remittance of interest accrued to blocked accounts is fully transferable after deduction of taxes. Also retained in blocked accounts is a propor- tion of local currency earnings derived from the exhibition of foreign-owned films; such retained funds may be used by the owner for certain spec- ified purposes, including the making of films in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka nationals who are or have been em- ployed abroad and non-nationals of Sri Lankan origin who are resident outside Sri Lanka are al- lowed to maintain nonresident foreign currency ac- counts in Sri Lanka in convertible currencies.2 Such accounts can also be opened by Sri Lankans within 90 days of their arrival in Sri Lanka with foreign 2In deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds ster- ling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. exchange brought in by them or received from abroad. Credits to the accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances from abroad and money brought into the country by individuals at the time of arrival; in addition, interest payments in these six convertible currencies may be credited to the ac- counts. These accounts may be freely debited with- out exchange control approval for payments abroad or for payments within Sri Lanka (converted to Sri Lanka rupees). Commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka may establish a Foreign Currency Banking Unit. These units may accept time and demand deposits in any designated foreign currency from nonresidents and from resident enterprises in the Investment Promo- tion Zone, and they may extend loans and advances in any designated foreign currency to any nonresi- dent and to any resident enterprise having GCEC status. In addition, the Foreign Currency Banking Units are allowed to accept time and demand de- posits from and grant loans and advances to any other resident approved by the Central Bank for such purposes as may be approved by the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments3 Except for certain specified imports, no prior li- censing is required. Imports that are subject to prior licensing include those subject to control for se- curity reasons; precious metals; alcohol; apparatus and equipment used in photographic and cin- ematographic laboratories; screens for projectors; multicolored photocopying apparatus; articles of cement (whether reinforced or not); concrete ce- ment blocks; encasements of industrial waste slugs, slag dress, ash and residues; other slag and ash including kelp; fertilizer; drugs and pharmaceuti- cals; aircraft, including aircraft spare parts; motor cars; and certain consumer goods, in addition to several major food items (rice, flour, and wheat grains). Imports of specified items4 are restricted to gov- ernment or state corporations; these are referred to as "reserved items." Prior approval procedures ap- ply to certain imports of capital goods: certain ma- chinery imports relating to foreign investment 3As part of the set of measures introduced under the 1988 budget, the maximum import duty rate was lowered from 100 percent to 60 percent, except for luxury items, and the minimum rate was raised from zero to 5 percent, except for fertilizers, dried fish, books, and aids for the handicapped. 4These include dates, chilies, onions, potatoes, certain pe- troleum products, film, consumer textiles, caustic soda, tea chests, jute hessian, mamoties, and matches. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 447 require the approval of the Foreign Investment Ad- visory Committee, and certain machinery imports relating to local investment require the prior ap- proval of the Local Investment Advisory Commit- tee; no prior approval is required if any single con- signment does not exceed SL Rs 700,000. Holders of balances in Convertible Rupee Ac- counts, which were abolished for new credits as of November 16, 1977, may use these funds to pay for certain imports, subject to licensing by the Control- ler of Imports and Exports. Except for specified transactions, imports can be effected only against sight letters of credit. A stamp duty of 3 percent is levied on letters of credit. An authorized dealer may approve an application to remit foreign exchange or to credit a nonresident account against an application for the opening of a letter of credit, and proof of a valid import license, when applicable. These requirements do not apply where the value of a consignment does not exceed US$500 and is for the direct use of the importer. Such imports should not be in commercial quantities. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments for invisibles require exchange control permission. For travel abroad, residents of Sri Lanka are allowed a basic foreign exchange al- lowance of US$400 an adult and US$200 a child under 12 years, once every two years, for travel to the "Indian group of countries" (defined as Bangla- desh, Bhutan, Burma, India, Maldives, Nepal, and Pakistan). In addition, basic allowances of US$1,500 an adult and US$750 a child under 12 years of age are granted every three years for travel to other countries. Additional foreign exchange is provided to pay for air fares. The prior approval by the Central Bank is not required for these sales of exchange, as this function has been delegated to the banks. Al- lowances for official travel require a certificate from the head of the relevant institution. Banks can also provide foreign exchange for business travel when the request is accompanied by a letter from the chairman, director, partner, or sole proprietor of the company recommending the particular trip abroad, and with confirmation that the cost of the exchange will be borne by the respective business establish- ment. In those cases, exchange is allowed at the rate of US$100 a day, up to a maximum of 30 days, for the Indian group of countries, and US$150 a day, also up to a maximum of 30 days, for other destinations, in addition to an entertainment allowance of US$225 for each business trip. These limits apply to chair- men, directors, partners, and sole proprietors of companies; other business executives may obtain up to US$60 a day for the Indian group of countries and up to US$100 a day, up to a maximum of 30 days, for other countries, and they are not granted an entertainment allowance. Foreign exchange may be released for medical treatment abroad if any specialist, whether in gov- ernment service or in private practice, certifies that equally effective treatment is not available in Sri Lanka. In addition, a monthly living allowance may be granted up to the equivalent of £ stg. 130 for an adult and £ stg. 65 for a child under 12 years for the Indian group of countries; the corresponding amounts for other countries are £ stg. 500 and £ stg. 250, respectively. Exchange for emergency travel for persons who have already used the basic allowance may be released with the prior approval of the Central Bank in amounts up to Indian Rs 750 for the Indian group of countries and £ stg. 200 for other countries. Authorized dealers are also al- lowed to sell foreign exchange for advertising charges and for subscriptions and payments to in- ternational tourist organizations. Payments for other types of travel allowance require prior ap- proval by the Central Bank. The provision of foreign exchange is allowed for education abroad at a recognized university or tech- nical institute to cover passage fare, living ex- penses, tuition fees, textbooks, etc. For living ex- penses, annual foreign exchange limits are established for (1) undergraduate or professional and technical education, and for (2) postgraduate education, according to four groups of countries. For the group of countries in the Indian subconti- nent, foreign exchange is made available up to In- dian Rs 8,640 and Indian Rs 11,520, respectively, for undergraduate and postgraduate studies; for Eu- rope (including the United Kingdom and the U.S.S.R.), up to £ stg. 3,120 and £ stg. 3,840, respec- tively; for Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States, up to US$7,200 and US$8,640, respectively; and for all other countries, up to US$4,320 and US$5,760, respectively. A clothing allowance of £ stg. 150 (or its equivalent in other foreign currency) is allowed once in four years in addition to the above-mentioned amounts. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit a maximum of two thirds of their gross monthly income for family maintenance. Foreign technical personnel employed by approved enter- prises may remit up to two thirds of their monthly earnings if their contract of employment does not exceed three years, and up to one third when the employment contract exceeds three years. Foreign technical personnel employed in the free trade zone ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 448 SRI LANKA may remit up to 90 percent of their monthly earn- ings. Nationals of Sri Lanka are not granted foreign exchange for family remittances. Commissions up to 5 percent of the f. o. b., c & f or c.i.f. value, as appropriate, are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad; commis- sions exceeding 5 percent require specific approval. No remittances for insurance on exports are permit- ted; these must be covered by the Insurance Corpo- ration of Sri Lanka or by the National Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka. Holders of funds in Convertible Rupee Accounts with credit balances outstanding as of Novem- ber 15,1977 may use these funds for travel expendi- tures and other current invisibles without the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Banks are authorized, without prior exchange control approval, to provide foreign exchange for subscriptions to professional institutions, fees in re- spect of foreign examinations held in Sri Lanka, and payments for the import of material for correspon- dence courses. Profit remittances of nonresident partners of part- nerships in Sri Lanka and remittances of dividends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks without prior exchange control approval if they relate to the year of applica- tion, do not include undistributed profits from pre- vious years, and do not include transfers from re- serves and profits resulting from the sale of fixed assets. For interim profits, the following documents should be furnished: (1) a certificate from the com- pany's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted represents profits for the period to which it relates; (2) a preliminary computation of the remit- table profits; (3) a tax clearance (only in the case of a nonresident partner) in respect of the profits to be remitted; (4) a certificate confirming that the bene- ficiary is resident abroad; and (5) a schedule indicat- ing the names of the beneficiaries and the net amount due to each. For final profits, submission of the following documents is required: an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remit- tance relates; a certificate from the auditors confirm- ing that the remittance represents the final install- ment of the profits, declared in respect of the year under reference; and a computation of the remit- table profits, and also the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) required for the remittance of interim profits. Remittances of interim dividends can be made, provided that the following documents are submit- ted: (1) a certificate from the company's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted repre- sents only dividends for the period to which it re- lates; (2) a certification that the remittance con- stitutes an interim dividend based on the unaudited accounts for the period; (3) a certificate confirming that the beneficiary is a resident outside Sri Lanka; (4) a schedule indicating the names of the benefici- aries and the net amounts due to them; and (5) documentary evidence from auditors confirming payment of dividend tax. The remittance of a final dividend requires the submission of an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remit- tance relates; a certificate from the auditors confirm- ing that the remittance represents dividends only for the period to which it relates; and the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) required for the remittance of interim dividends. Resident nonnationals may maintain foreign cur- rency accounts with domestic commercial banks in any of ten designated currencies5 without prior ex- change control approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic unit of the bank and not by its Foreign Currency Banking Unit. The accounts may be current, savings, or deposit accounts, but withdrawal of funds by checks is not permitted. Credits to these accounts are limited to inward re- mittances and to amounts in Sri Lanka rupees au- thorized by the Controller of Exchange for remit- tance abroad; debits are limited to outward remittances and to payments in foreign currency converted into Sri Lanka rupees. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign ex- change declared to customs at the time of entry. Unspent rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by nonresident travelers may be reconverted into foreign currency, provided that the Customs Dec- laration Card indicates that at least the equivalent of such balances has been brought into Sri Lanka. The amount of foreign currency notes that diplomats, other foreign missions, and their non-Sri Lankan staff traveling abroad can take with them is limited to 20 percent of their travel expenses. Residents may take out foreign currency notes and coins not ex- ceeding £ stg. 20 a person (£ stg. 10 a child under 12 years) of the exchange authorized for travel. All persons leaving Sri Lanka may take out domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250 a person. 5Deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA 449 Exports and Export Proceeds6 A number of specified items require prior licens- ing by the Controller of Imports and Exports. The State Gem Corporation exercises control over ex- ports of gems; exports of gems by the private sector on a consignment basis require prior approval of exchange control. The Corporation handles exports in the name of miners who wish to export their gems. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, dia- monds, and platinum are allowed only in special circumstances. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be collected within a period ranging from 21 days to 6 months, depending on the form of payment. Also, all export proceeds exceeding SL Rs 500,000 in value must be sold forward to a local bank. Special ar- rangements apply to exports made under trade and payments agreements and to exports made to a member country of the Asian Clearing Union. Proceeds from Invisibles Unless otherwise specified, foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his foreign exchange holdings, including currency notes and coin, provided that he is carrying currency notes in excess of US$100 or other financial instruments in excess of US$1,000. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The im- port of Indian and Pakistani currency is not permit- ted. A person entering Sri Lanka may bring in do- mestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250. Other currency notes and coin may be brought in without restriction. Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in projects that are specifically approved by the Gov- ernment or, where the capital is drawn from a blocked account in Sri Lanka, in any local enterprise without the prior approval of the Controller of Ex- change. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in approved projects other than invest- ments made from blocked accounts may be repatri- ated, along with capital appreciation. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments not approved by the Government may not be transferred abroad 6As part of the set of measures introduced under the 1988 budget, export duties on nontraditional exports of agricultural and marine products were eliminated, and export duties on tea were reduced by an average 33.5 percent. In addition, export licensing restrictions were lifted for a number of products. but may be reinvested with the approval of the Controller of Exchange; the current income thereon may be remitted abroad. New foreign investments in Sri Lanka that are approved by the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee of the Ministry of Finance and Planning or the GCEC are also granted special facilities for remittances and taxation. Investments abroad by residents are not normally permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the princi- pal, interest, or dividends are payable (either con- tractually or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such se- curities is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange. Authorized dealers may grant allocations to emi- grants upon presentation of appropriate documen- tation. At the time of departure, emigrants can ob- tain passage to the country of migration by normal direct route and 20 percent of passage fare to cover excess baggage. Exchange equivalent up to £ stg. 500 an adult and £ stg. 250 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of departure. Personal effects up to SL Rs 15,000 and jewelry up to SL Rs 30,000 for each female emigrant and SL Rs 10,000 for each male emigrant can be exported. The Department of Exchange Control can approve the transfer of pensions in full, or up to £ stg. 100 a month, including pension and other income, subject to submission of an income tax clearance certificate. Repatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted to transfer assets representing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings as deter- mined by the Government from time to time. Per- sons who have been in business in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the capital they originally brought into the country, plus a reasonable amount of savings, subject to certain limits. Special provi- sions, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports with the approval of the Central Bank; the latter is the sole importer of gold into Sri Lanka. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are restricted, except for imports of gold for the production of jewelry for export. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 450 SRI LANKA Changes During 1988 Nonresident Accounts May 5. Authorized dealers were permitted to open and maintain nonresident foreign currency accounts for nationals of Sri Lanka who are or have been employed abroad, and for nonnationals of Sri Lankan origin, who are resident outside Sri Lanka. July 15. The limit on the funds that can be remit- ted out of nonresident blocked accounts was raised from SL Rs 200,000 to SL Rs 350,000. Imports and Import Payments May 20. Imports of precious and semiprecious stones and imitation jewelry for domestic use were permitted. June 3. A valid license from the Director of Com- merce was required for the establishment of letters of credit for import of cloves. July 11. Licensing requirements for imports of machinery for the plastics and automatic filling and packing industries were abolished. August 5. The order prohibiting establishment of letters of credit for imports of maize (published De- cember 21, 1987) was revoked. August 31. The stamp duty on letters of credit for imports (other than imports used as inputs in export industries) not covered fully by deposit was raised from 2 percent to 3 percent. September 19. Establishment of letters of credit for imports of maize was prohibited. September 29. Establishment of letters of credit for imports of car bodies (falling under CCCN heading No. 87-05) required the prior approval of the Con- troller of Exchange. November 15. Imports of maize and motor vehicle bodies (falling under CCCN heading No. 87-02) required import licenses from the Controller of Im- ports and Exports. November 21. The requirement that prior approval be obtained from the Controller of Exchange to es- tablish letters of credit for imports of maize and car bodies (CCCN heading No. 87-05) was abolished. Payments for Invisibles March 16. Authorized dealers were permitted to approve applications made on "P" forms by na- tionals for purchases of air tickets to proceed abroad for employment, even if they have already utilized their basic passage entitlement, provided that a let- ter from the Sri Lankan Bureau of Foreign Employ- ment recommending the approval of passage is furnished. May 5. Authorized dealers were permitted to pur- chase foreign currency in amounts up to £ 1,000 or its equivalent without obtaining permits on Form C. May 16. Shipping agents, travel agents, airlines, and airline agents were authorized to issue tickets to nonnationals for travel abroad where payment for such tickets is made in foreign currency. September 28. Travel allowances were increased as follows: (1) The business travel allowance for chair- men and directors of public companies to a group of neighboring countries (Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burma, India, Maldives, Nepal, and Pakistan) was increased to US$150 a day and to other countries, to US$225 a day, while the allowance for employees of public companies to the above group of countries was increased to US$100 a day and to other coun- tries, to US$150 a day. (2) The basic travel allowance to the above group of countries for adults was in- creased to US$400 and for children under 12 years of age, to US$200 (to be granted once in two years), while the basic allowance to other countries for adults was increased to US$1,500 and for children under 12 years of age, to US$750 (to be granted once in three years). Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The licensing requirement for the ex- port of coconut and coconut products was abol- ished, retroactive to December 23, 1987. January 14. The licensing requirement for exports of rubber was abolished. January 27. The Floor Price Scheme concerning exports of spices and allied products was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese Pound. There are two exchange markets: (1) the official mar- ket, in which the exchange rate for the Sudanese pound is pegged to the U.S. dollar at the rate of LSd 4.50 = US$1; and (2) a (free) commercial bank market, in which the exchange rate is determined by a bankers' committee composed of representa- tives of seven commercial banks. On December 30, 1988, the buying and selling rates in the (free) com- mercial bank market were LSd 11.80 = US$1 and LSd 12.00 = US$1, respectively. The buying and selling rates in the (free) commercial bank market for telegraphic transfers were LSd 11.90 = US$1 and LSd 12.00 = US$1, respectively. Export pro- ceeds are distributed between the official market and the (free) commercial bank market in the pro- portion of 70 percent and 30 percent, respectively, resulting in an effective exchange rate for exports of LSd 6.69 = US$1, which was the weighted average of the exchange rates in the two markets on Decem- ber 30, 1988. On the receipts side, in addition to 70 percent of export proceeds, the other transac- tions effected at the official market include govern- ment loans and grants and selected invisible re- ceipts. On the payments side, the official market handles imports of petroleum products, wheat and wheat flour, and a wide range of other consumer and intermediate imports, together with govern- ment invisible payments including debt service. All commercial banks quote a uniform exchange rate that is applied to 30 percent of export receipts. The commercial banks also purchase the remit- tances of Sudanese nationals working abroad. The (free) commercial bank rate is determined by a com- mittee of commercial bankers representing seven banks, four public and three private. Chairmanship of the committee rotates among the public banks. The committee meets daily to fix the rate. Foreign exchange purchase by the commercial banks is for their own account. The commercial bank resources finance imports from a list of commodities deter- mined by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, as well as certain service payments. Uses of commercial bank foreign exchange resources are supervised by the Bank of Sudan, which also deter- mines the working balance needs of the banks and purchases any surplus. Besides the exchange rate in the official market, the (free) commercial bank mar- ket, and the exchange rate applicable to export pro- ceeds, transactions in the "own resources" market reflect the freely determined parallel market ex- change rate. In addition, an exchange rate of LSd 4.10 per clearing U.S. dollar is applied to trans- actions under the bilateral payments arrangement with Egypt, and an exchange rate of LSd 3.35 per US$1 is applied to remittances for tuition for stu- dents studying abroad (except in Egypt). There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, with the assistance of the authorized banks. Commercial banks may not effect any payments from their foreign exchange accounts without ver- ification by the Bank of Sudan in accordance with established procedures and guidelines. The issu- ance of registration forms and the licensing of im- ports and certain exports (except of gold) are the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and For- eign Trade, but all registration forms and licenses must be validated by the Bank of Sudan. Official import payments and other foreign payments are approved within the framework of an annual for- eign exchange budget drawn up by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, in coordination with the Bank of Sudan and the Ministry of Econ- omy and Foreign Trade. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries—except Egypt, with which Sudan maintains a bilateral payments agreement —and all monetary areas (the "convert- ible area") may be made in foreign currency from any Free Foreign Currency Account or Special For- eign Currency Account, while receipts from the convertible area may be accepted in any convertible currency.1 Foreign Currency Accounts Residents are allowed to keep foreign exchange in "free" or "special" foreign exchange accounts, de- pending on the source of funds. Balances in the free *An exchange rate of LSd 4.10 per US$1 is applied to transac- tions under the bilateral clearing arrangement with Egypt. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 452 SUDAN accounts may be replenished only from: (1) direct transfers from abroad; (2) foreign exchange regis- tered on customs declarations; and (3) salary pay- ments in foreign currency by diplomatic missions, and regional and international organizations. A free account may be replenished with foreign currency transferred from another free account. Balances in free accounts may be used for: (1) import payments in accordance with the rules and regulations gov- erning imports financed from own resources; (2) payments of expenses due to nonresidents re- lating to imports financed from own resources; (3) transfers abroad; (4) withdrawal (in the form of traveler's checks or cash, the latter up to a limit of US$200) for travel abroad by the account holder and his family after verification of fulfillment of travel requirements; (5) payments made in bank checks to the Duty-Free Shop Corporation; (6) payments of hotel bills and travel tickets by certified check in foreign currency; and (7) purchases of Sudanese pounds at the commercial bank rate. Balances in the special accounts may be augmented only from transfers from abroad by international organiza- tions and members of the diplomatic corps, spec- ified Arab organizations, and foreign companies operating in oil drilling and mining, construction, engineering, and similar activities; such balances can also be used for purposes similar to those for free accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Certain imports are prohibited for protec- tive reasons, and others are not being licensed. Permitted imports are financed from different sources according to categories. Imports by certain public sector entities and other imports considered essential are financed from the foreign exchange resources of the Bank of Sudan. Imports of certain items, consisting mainly of raw materials and in- puts and essential consumer goods, are financed from (free) commercial bank market resources or from the importer's own resources with the ap- proval of the Bank of Sudan. Import licenses specify the method of financing. Import licenses must be obtained from the Minis- try of Economy and Foreign Trade for all goods imported into Sudan, and are granted upon favor- able decision from an interministerial imports com- mittee (Imports Guidance Committee). Prior to li- censing, public sector imports must secure approval from the Ministry of Finance, and imports under a foreign aid program must be approved by the Com- modity Aid Committee. All import licenses must be validated at the Administration for Foreign Ex- change (AFE) of the Bank of Sudan. Import insur- ance normally must be taken out with local com- panies. Imports financed from the (free) commer- cial bank market or from own resources are subject to an advance deposit of 5 percent of the c . i .f. value. Goods that otherwise would be subject to the ad- vance deposit requirement are exempt when fi- nanced with suppliers' credit of at least two years' maturity, provided that the amount of the transac- tion is at least LSd 500,000. If a letter of credit is opened, the authorized bank usually requires a cash margin deposit ranging from 10 percent to 100 percent of transaction value, depending on the import category. A stamp duty of LSd 25 is levied on the application form for each transfer in respect of private sector imports. Imports of nonessential products (all imports except petroleum and pet- roleum products, wheat and wheat flour, phar- maceuticals, fertilizers, insecticides, and selected industrial inputs) are subject to a defense tax of 10 percent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles made through the com- mercial banks are subject to the verification of the appropriate forms by the Bank of Sudan. Insurance payments require a certificate from the insurance controller; transfers for medical treatment require a certified cost estimate from the Medical Commis- sion; transfers of royalties payable to foreign bodies require a royalty exchange permit from the govern- ment body concerned (generally, the Ministry of Industry). Authorized banks may accept foreign ex- change up to US$1,000 or the equivalent in other hard currencies from residents, irrespective of their source, to be exchanged for traveler's checks or bank checks for traveling abroad. In addition, al- locations to travelers to Egypt are authorized by the commercial banks up to a maximum of LSd 500 a person a year in clearing dollars. Departing travelers must provide evidence that foreign exchange in excess of US$1,000 in their pos- session was acquired through a commercial bank — drawn from a foreign exchange account —has been reported on a declaration form prior to entry into Sudan, or has been approved by the Bank of Sudan. The exportation of Sudanese currency over LSd 20 is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Export licenses are required for all exports except for cotton and gum arabic. All exporters must submit export contracts to the Bank of Sudan for approval. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 453 After obtaining the approval of the Bank of Sudan, the contract is submitted to the Ministry of Econ- omy and Foreign Trade to obtain an export license. The license must be submitted with the "EX" form to the Bank of Sudan for approval. All three documents are submitted to the Bank of Sudan through an authorized commercial bank handling the transaction. Export proceeds must be repatriated to the bank- ing system within four months of the date of ship- ment. All convertible currency proceeds from ex- ports are distributed between the Bank of Sudan and the commercial banks in the proportion 70 per- cent and 30 percent, respectively. When the terms of payment are cash against documents or sight letters of credit, the proceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the shipping documents; otherwise, a surrender date is usually specified. Some major ex- port commodities are exported solely by public sec- tor entities. There is an export tax on gum arabic, cotton, hides and skins, and ivory. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals working abroad (SNWAs) are allowed to keep free foreign exchange accounts. The repatriation of funds from SNWAs is transacted through the commercial banks at the commercial bank market exchange rate. Remittances by SNWAs under the incentive program, however, are con- verted at the official exchange rate. Under the incen- tive program in operation since June 1985, a bonus is offered in the form of a pound-denominated cou- pon equal to 15 percent of the amount of transfer. Coupons may be used by SNWAs to pay customs duties, make purchases in duty-free shops, or may be exchanged for a car import license (if an amount equivalent to US$8,000 is sold) or for an entitlement to buy land from the Government at a favorable price (if an amount equivalent to US$20,000 is sold). Travelers entering Sudan may bring in any amount in notes and coin of other currencies, but the impor- tation of more than LSd 20 in Sudanese currency is prohibited. The declaration of foreign exchange is a legal requirement for all arrivals into Sudan. An official declaration is required for the foreign ex- change to be credited to a foreign currency account or to be re-exported. Capital Public sector capital inflows (and debt service payments) are effected through the official ex- change market. All incoming private sector foreign capital (loans or equity), other than bank capital, is converted at the (free) commercial bank rate. Repatriation of share capital and loan principal to nonresidents is subject to the submission of a certifi- cate from the Bank of Sudan stating the value of the foreign share in the capital and the loans received in Sudan; equity shares require a certification of liqui- dation and of tax compliance. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sudan for numismatic purposes. Subject to cer- tain conditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell domestically produced gold in Sudan. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce, Co- operation, and Supply; such licenses are not nor- mally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for pro- cessing and subsequent reimportation. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement April 24. The clearing exchange rate under the bilateral payments agreement with Egypt was changed from LSd 3.25 per US$1 to LSd 4.10 per US$1. October 25. An exchange system, consisting of two exchange markets, was introduced: (1) the offi- cial market, in which the exchange rate for the Sudanese pound was pegged to the U.S. dollar at a rate of LSd 4.50 = US$1; and (2) a (free) commercial bank market, in which the exchange rate would be determined by a bankers' committee composed of representatives of seven commercial banks. Ini- tially, the commercial bank rate was set at LSd 11.4 = US$1. It was announced that the bankers' com- mittee would meet daily to fix the rate and that all commercial banks would quote a uniform exchange rate. Imports and Import Payments October 1. The defense tax on imports considered to be nonessential (i.e., all imports except pet- roleum and petroleum products, wheat and wheat flour, pharmaceuticals, fertilizers, insecticides, and selected industrial inputs) was raised from 5 per- cent to 10 percent. October 25. Foreign exchange resources from the official market would henceforth be used to finance ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 454 SUDAN the following 28 categories of imports: petroleum and petroleum products; oils and tallows; wheat and wheat flour; medicines and medical require- ments (human and veterinary); inputs for the man- ufacture of medicines (public and private sectors), with the exception of medical equipment imported by the private sector; edible oil (production inputs and spare parts); yeast; lentils; infant milk powder; packing and wrapping materials; Kenana Sugar Company requirements; government sugar sector requirements; sugar; water and electricity enter- prise requirements; other government imports; grey unbleached clothing; yarn and textile industry inputs; tomato paste and tomato paste concentrate; inputs for match manufacture; chicken stock; tea, coffee; inputs for battery production; tahniyah (ses- ame sweet); agricultural inputs; requirements for flour mills; concentrated manufactured fodder; cross-bred cows and day-old chicks; and any other commodities included by the Bank of Sudan from time to time. The authorities also announced the following procedures for imports using official mar- ket resources: The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade will issue import licenses to the private sector for the commodities listed above and financed from official resources by the commercial banks. The au- thorized banks shall submit import licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade for official market commodities to the Administration for Foreign Exchange (AFE), for validation after a deposit of 5 percent is obtained in domestic cur- rency. Importation using official resources may be effected by any of the recognized means of pay- ment. The margin for official market commodities shall be obtained in accordance with the deposit policies in effect on the date of execution. October 25. The authorities announced that for- eign exchange resources from the (free) commercial bank market would be used to finance imports from a list of commodities to be determined by the Import Guidance Committee in the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. The authorities also announced the following procedures for imports using com- mercial market resources: the authorized commer- cial banks should submit the import licenses sub- mitted to them for financing from commercial market resources to the AFE for verification after obtaining a deposit of 5 percent in domestic cur- rency. Free market importation can be effected by any of the following means of payment: cash letter of credit, acceptance letter of credit, sight letter of credit, payment against documents or acceptance. After the license is verified by the Bank of Sudan and returned to the commercial bank, the latter must obtain the margin determined for the type of commodity and in accordance with current deposit policies from the customer's resources in domestic currency. If the commercial bank does not have the resources when the credit necessary for any verified license is opened, the license may be converted to financing in full from the client's own resources in accordance with the guidelines and procedures in effect in this regard. In such cases, the commercial bank shall stamp the license "own resources" and shall so notify the Bank of Sudan. December 1. The following list of 22 categories eligible for importation using either (free) commer- cial bank market resources or own resources was announced: industrial inputs (excluding those in official market); spare parts (except for small vehi- cles); machinery and equipment; group transport vehicles; tires, size 900 and above; asbestos prod- ucts; dry battery cells (three sizes); cement; glue; shoe heels, artificial leather and rubber for shoes; manual equipment for craftsmen; gas cartridges; gas cylinders (butagas) (petroleum companies only); toothpaste; office stationery; nets and fishing equipment; plastic bags; threads, ropes, and twine; mosquito nets for children; rice; powdered milk; and cigarettes (for agents). Exports and Export Proceeds October 25. The authorities announced that all export proceeds are to be distributed between the official market and the (free) commercial bank mar- ket in the proportion of 70 percent and 30 percent, respectively, resulting initially in an effective ex- change rate for exports of LSd 6.6 = US$1, which was the weighted average of the exchange rates in the two markets on October 25. Proceeds from Invisibles October 25. The authorities announced that the proceeds from the following invisibles would accrue to the official market: foreign exchange from abroad covering the expenses of foreign oil exploration and metal resources companies, but not salaries of their personnel; official transfers for foreign diplomatic missions, UN organizations and agencies, and the League of Arab States, but not the salaries of their personnel; remittances for regional and area bodies, institutions, and organizations operating in all spheres, with the exception of the salaries of their employees; remittances for relief organizations, with the exception of the salaries of their employees; sales by Sudanese working abroad under the incen- tive program; and any other resources included by the Bank of Sudan from time to time. Proceeds from the following invisibles would accrue to the (free) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN 455 commercial bank market: salaries of foreign em- ployees of the agencies listed earlier; salaries of Sudanese employed by certain Arab agencies and installations under headquarters agreements to pay the salaries of these employees in dollars; foreign exchange from hotel operations and tourism; remit- tances from abroad in favor of residents sold to authorized commercial banks; sales from free ac- counts opened with authorized commercial banks; foreign exchange, irrespective of origin, purchased by commercial banks; savings of Sudanese working abroad (excluding sales under the incentive pro- gram); revenue of banks and companies, such as interest and profits in convertible foreign exchange; and any other free market resources included by the Bank of Sudan from time to time. Payments for Invisibles October 25. The authorities announced that pay- ments for the following invisibles would be made from official market resources: payments for embas- sies, envoys, and official delegations; salaries of ex- perts working with government and public sector institutions and foreign professors employed by public and private institutions, up to 50 percent of total salary; interest payments on government debt; invisible payments related to imports financed using official market resources; and any other pay- ments included by the Bank of Sudan from time to time. In addition, it was announced that remit- tances for students studying abroad (except in Egypt) would continue at the rate of LSd 3.35 per U.S. dollar for tuition remittances until June 30, 1989. Payments for the following invisibles are to be made using commercial bank resources: remit- tances for medical treatment abroad; remittances for insurance and reinsurance companies; net re- mittances of sales by foreign aviation companies operating in Sudan; remittances of profits and inter- est on loans to the private sector; remittances for expenses under administration and technical con- sulting commercial agreements; salaries of for- eigners employed by the private sector, up to 50 per- cent of total salary; invisible payments related to imports financed using commercial bank resources; and any other payments included by the Banks of Sudan f rom time to time. Capital October 25. The authorities announced that all inflows of loans, grants, aid, etc., extended to the Government, public enterprises, and higher educa- tion institutions, as well as the capital of foreign and mixed commercial banks, would be converted at the official exchange rate. In addition, principal pay- ments on government debt would be converted at the official exchange rate. Foreign loans to the pri- vate sector and capital of foreign companies and Sudanese companies with foreign participation would be converted at the commercial bank rate, as would principal payments on private sector loans. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Suriname is the Suriname Guilder, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at Sf 1.78876 - US$1. On De- cember 31,1988, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Sf 1.77 and Sf 1.80, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are set daily by the Central Bank on the basis of the market quotations for the U.S. dollar and the currencies concerned in Amsterdam. There is no exchange market in Suriname. There is a commission of 1 percent on purchases of foreign exchange, which is payable to the Central Bank. The commercial banks charge commissions of 1.5 per- cent on sales of foreign currency and 0.25 percent on transfers. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Suriname formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from June 29, 1978. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are subject to license, as are transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic currency and other do- mestic assets. Import licenses, which are required for all imports, are granted by the Ministry of Eco- nomic Affairs.2 In case of payment by letter of credit, the import license must be approved by the Central Bank. In principle, imports of medical sup- plies, fuels, raw materials, spare parts, and educa- tional supplies are given priority in the licensing system, but the full basis for allocation is not pub- lished. The Central Bank is empowered to provide foreign exchange for import payments (subject to presentation of an import license, which serves as a general authorization for payment); the latter au- thority is exercised through the commercial banks, which have been appointed as authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Board. External payments other than for the importation of goods require a license from the Foreign Exchange Board. Except for limited amounts of foreign exchange for invis- ible payments not requiring an exchange license, the authorized banks are not permitted to sell for- eign exchange without the submission of an ex- change license by the remitter. Exports also require a license from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Commercial banks may accept free of license those inward transfers of foreign exchange that do not result from borrowing abroad; the taking up of for- eign loans is subject to approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Suriname guilders between Sur- iname and foreign countries are not permitted; they must, in general, be made in specified convertible currencies.3 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U.S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Sur- iname guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, and all others are subject to a specific license. These ac- counts must not be overdrawn and, except for cer- tain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a month. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in Suriname guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also must not be overdrawn. Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts on behalf of nonresi- dents drawing pensions from the Government or under company plans. A special permit is required to transfer pensions abroad. Nonresident accounts in guilders may not be credited with Suriname bank 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Barbados dollars, and Guyana dollars. 2However, two specified mining companies do not need li- censes for their own import requirements. Similar exemptions may be granted to foreign companies for their industrial activities in Suriname, provided that they pay for imports from their own foreign exchange holdings. 3Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Barbados dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Eastern Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. 456 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 457 notes mailed from abroad; nonresident foreign cur- rency accounts may not be credited with Sur- inamese tender. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports and are granted by the Ministry of Transportation, Trade, and Industry. Imports of some commodities are prohibited,4 and imports of another group of commodities are subject to quotas under the Com- prehensive Decree of May 11, 1982.5 The Ministry of Finance allocates foreign ex- change according to three priority criteria. The highest priority list contains items including basic foodstuffs, hydrocarbons, and pharmaceuticals. The second priority list consists of inputs for cement production, subsistence payments to Surinamese students living abroad, and transfers to embassies abroad. The lowest priority list contains spare parts. A government agency, the Suriname Central Import Service, acts as the main importer of staple foodstuffs, agricultural inputs, and certain other commodities. Import prices for food products im- ported by other companies are checked against quotations collected by the Suriname Central Im- port Service. Import licenses are granted more liber- ally to individuals and companies using their own foreign exchange. The import license serves as a general authoriza- tion for payment. In case of payment by letter of credit, the import license must be approved by the Central Bank. Import licenses have a validity of six 4The prohibition applies to imports of pigs (excluding those for breeding), chicken, duck, and turkey meat, pork, fish (excluding kwie-kwie fish and smoked herring), shrimp, and crab (fresh, cooled, or frozen, salted, dried, or precooked), vegetables (ex- cluding potatoes, onions, and garlic), edible roots and tubers, citrus, bananas, plantains, and coconuts, green and roasted coffee (excluding decaffeinated), rice and rice products (exclud- ing baby food), sugar (excluding cubes and tablets weighing 5 grams or less a cube or tablet), aromatized or colored sugar or sugar syrup, noodles and macaroni, jam, jelly, and marmalade (excluding those for diabetics), peanut butter, syrups, and con- centrates for nonalcoholic beverages in packages of less than 5 kilograms (excluding those for diabetics), firewood and other nonprocessed wood, railroad ties, shingles, wooden structures for construction, wooden tiles and panels, wooden tools, han- dles, and coat hangers, men's and boys' shoes (excluding rubber and plastic boots and sport shoes), and sand, gravel, sidewalk tiles, and road bricks. Imports of some other items such as specified explosives and narcotics are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. 5The commodities to which import quotas are applied include kwie-kwie fish, milk powder, potatoes, onions and garlic, fru i ts and nuts (other than citrus, bananas, plantains, and coconuts), decaffeinated coffee, peanuts, baby food, tomato paste, certain preserved vegetables, matches, furnishings, ready-made clothing, and furniture (excluding those for business establish- ments such as offices, theaters, clinics, hotels, restaurants, and libraries). months, within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. In addition to customs duties, a license fee of 1.5 percent and a statistical fee of 1.5 percent are levied on the c . i . f. value of all im- ports, including imports of gold. Payments for Invisibles Transactions involving outward remittances of foreign exchange are subject to licensing; applica- tion for a license must be made at least one month before the intended date for effecting such a trans- action. Authorized banks and the General Post Of- fice have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sf 150 an item a month on account of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so forth), as well as for advertising expenses and payments for books. Travel allowances for residents are subject to li- censing and are limited to the equivalent of Sf 50 a person a calendar year for travel to Guyana and French Guiana, and Sf 270 a person a calendar year for travel to other countries. A traveler may be granted the maximum amount of Sf 320 a year for travel to other countries, provided that he forfeits the right to purchase foreign exchange for travel to Guyana and French Guiana (50 percent of these amounts apply to children under 12 years). The authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of exchange for travel not being permitted until three days before departure. Bona fide applica- tions for larger amounts of exchange for travel pur- poses are approved on a case-by-case basis. Both resident and nonresident travelers may take out Sf 100 in Suriname currency. The export of foreign bank notes by traveling residents is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Remittances for support of family members abroad require an indi- vidual license, which is granted only for full-time registered students of disciplines essential to but not taught in Suriname. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or de- preciation or direct investments, may be made if an application, supported by an auditor's report, is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Board for verification. These payments are temporarily suspended. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses issued by the Min- istry of Economic Affairs. Licenses are issued if the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 458 SURINAME exports are covered by letters of credit opened by buyers abroad, and exporters undertake to sur- render the foreign currency proceeds within 30 days to the Central Bank. The Ministry of Economic Affairs ascertains with a relevant government agency whether the export price as reported by the exporter is in accordance with world market prices. Export licenses for cattle, pigs, fresh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only on the ad- vice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Husban- dry, and Fisheries. The export of baboon wood is prohibited, and that of rice is subject to special regulations. Certain exporting companies have re- ceived special permission from the Foreign Ex- change Board to maintain current accounts in for- eign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export proceeds). Exports of logs are sub- ject to a tax of 10 percent to 50 percent of f .o .b. value, depending on the type of wood; and exports of rough-hewn timber are subject to a tax of 10 per- cent of f .o .b. value. All exports are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 percent of the f .o .b. value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in foreign currency without limit and up to Sf 100 in domestic currency. Travelers must de- clare all domestic and foreign currency in their pos- session on entry; resident travelers must exchange at an authorized bank any foreign currency in their possession. The amount that nonresidents may take out of the country in foreign currency must be smaller than the amount brought in and declared on entry. Nonresident travelers, except residents of Guyana and French Guiana, are required to change convertible currency in an amount equivalent to Sf 500 when entering Suriname at Zanderij Interna- tional Airport or at Nickerie or Albina. Residents of Guyana and French Guiana must exchange convert- ible currency in an amount equivalent to Sf 200 (50 percent of these amounts apply to children un- der 12 years). Unspent balances of such guilders can be reconverted into convertible currency, provided that the visit was shorter than ten days in each case and the visitor spent more than Sf 50 a day. Capital A decision of September 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Board provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liquidation of fully or partly foreign-owned com- panies or other forms of enterprise. The decision covers investments made by nonresidents with for- eign capital after July 31, 1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by the nonresident entrepreneur for the company's use. Profits must be transferred within three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the firm's working capital and may be transferred only in annual installments of 20 per- cent. Transfers in accordance with these decisions have been temporarily suspended. The Foreign Exchange Board may, at its discre- tion, grant licenses for transfers abroad from a de- ceased's estate, up to a maximum of Sf 10,000. For estates of more than Sf 10,000, further annual trans- fers are permitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The Board may allow emi- grants (heads of family) to transfer in foreign ex- change the equivalent of Sf 5,000 in a lump sum, and subsequently, Sf 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating family may be permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sf 10,000 plus 10 percent of his total taxable earnings in Suriname accrued during his period of residence; if his Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be trans- ferred at a rate of Sf 10,000 a year. Transfers abroad in excess of Sf 10,000 a year may be authorized under exceptional circumstances. Outward trans- fers for these purposes have been temporarily reduced. Subject to certain requirements, residents may purchase or sell in specified countries6 Surinamese corporate shares that have been designated as nego- tiable by the Foreign Exchange Board. Transfers for investment abroad or for the purchase of other for- eign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinamese interests will benefit. All borrow- ing from nonresidents by nonbank residents re- quires prior approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those undertaken for the account of their customers, and banks are re- quired, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased. Authorized banks are permitted to place a part of their liquid funds abroad and to use the short-term credit lines extended by their foreign correspondent banks as a source of operating funds. The Central Bank, the authorized banks, and the correspondent 6Belgium, Canada, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, United King- dom, and United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME 459 banks have made an arrangement whereby the Central Bank guarantees the letters of credit issued by the authorized banks by pledging its balances up to a specified ceiling, while the authorized banks keep their balances abroad at a minimum level.7 The authorized banks may place abroad in short-term U.S. dollar assets the amounts corresponding to balances in their nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell only to the authorized gold buyers (the Central Bank and Grassalco). Lo- cally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Board by sale to the Central Bank. At the end of December 1988, the price was Sf 65 a gram of 22-karat gold. The authorized gold buyers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices for industrial and artistic pur- poses; dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet demand for industrial purposes, the Cen- tral Bank may import some gold. Three kinds of gold coins—with a face value of Sf 100, Sf 200, and Sf 250, respectively—are legal tender. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suriname for numismatic and investment pur- poses; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coin among themselves and with other residents. 7This arrangement applies to the nationally controlled Land- bouw Bank, De Surinaamsche Bank, and Hakrinbank, and not to the Dutch-owned Algemene Bank Nederland. Residents other than the monetary authorities, pro- ducers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry re- quire exchange licenses issued by the Foreign Ex- change Board; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coin by authorized banks and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank within 20 days. Nonresident trav- elers may also freely bring in gold, subject to decla- ration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60 percent ad valorem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 percent; in addition, imports are subject to a licensing fee of 1.5 percent. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments April 1. The responsibility for allocating foreign exchange was transferred from the Foreign Ex- change Council to the Ministry of Finance, which had been using three priority criteria. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Swaziland is the Lilangeni (plural emalangeni), which is pegged to the South African rand at E 1 = R1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland (CBS) are based on the floating rate of the South African com- mercial rand against the U.S. dollar. On Decem- ber 30, 1988, the closing buying and selling rates were E 2.3823 and E 2.3843, respectively, per US$1. Rates are also quoted for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, and the Euro- pean Currency Unit (ECU), based on the London and New York market quotations for these curren- cies against the U.S. dollar. The CBS also quotes rates for the currencies for the Units of Accounts of the Preferential Trade Area of Eastern and Southern African States (UAPTA), based on the latest available U.S. dollar/SDR cross rates. Currencies traded against UAPTA include the Kenya shilling, Malawi kwacha, Zambian kwacha, and Zimbabwe dollar. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Central Bank of Swaziland permits authorized dealers to engage in forward exchange operations. Commercial banks are generally able to meet de- mands for forward sales of foreign currency against emalangeni. The forward exchange rates are market determined. Exchange Control Territory Swaziland is part of the Common Monetary Area (CMA),1 which is a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the CMA, and in principle, these are not controlled. In relations with countries outside the CMA, Swazi- land applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa, but Swaziland has not adopted the dual exchange rate system that was reintroduced in that country in September 1985. Residents of Swaziland, however, have access to the Johannesburg market in accordance with the terms and conditions ruling in that market. Financial rand may not be acquired by, or held for account of, any resident of Lesotho, South Africa, or Swaziland. Previously called the Rand Monetary Area. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Swaziland, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Imports and Import Payments Swaziland is a member of a customs union (SACU) with Botswana, Lesotho, and South Africa, and there are no import restrictions on goods orig- inating in any country of the customs union. Im- ports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quantity of goods originating outside the customs union. Imports from countries outside the customs union are licensed in confor- mity with specific import regulations. Import li- censes granted in Swaziland entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the im- port payment. Ports of entry outside Swaziland may be utilized, but the overall control over import li- censes and payments procedures is a responsibility of the Swazi authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing. For those goods that are shipped to any one member of the customs area, licenses are used mainly for tax levy purposes. For goods shipped to countries outside the customs area, licensing is administered to en- sure that export proceeds are repatriated in the pre- scribed manner and within the stipulated period. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, while subject to control, are not normally restricted. Authority to approve some types of cur- rent payments is delegated to authorized dealers up to established limits. The basic exchange allowances for tourist travel are E 10,000 for each adult, and E 5,000 for each child, a year. For business travel, the basic annual allowance is E 15,000 a person at rates not exceeding E 750 a day. A higher basic allowance can be obtained for business and medical travel upon application. To use credit cards outside the CMA, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of undertaking prior to departure. 460 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND 461 Capital All inward capital transfers require prior approval of the CBS and must be properly documented in order to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of in- terest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonresident, without prior approval. In August 1987, an agreement was reached between the Reserve Bank of South Africa and the Central Bank of Swaziland to allow some nonresidents to invest in Swaziland through the financial rand mechanism in respect of specific projects by acquir- ing shares in connection with the establishment of new companies and by purchasing shares in ex- isting nonquoted companies through South African intermediaries. Priority is given to investments in- volving the establishment or expansion of manufac- turing enterprises, subject to evidence of invest- ment in fixed assets of most of the funds provided through financial rand. Applications for most outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. Blocked emalangeni may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments as may be approved by the CBS. Changes During 1988 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles August 1. Travelers to member countries of the Preferential Trade Area of Eastern and Southern African States were permitted to buy traveler's checks in the Units of Accounts of the UAPTA, up to the equivalent of E 10,000 for each adult and E 5,000 for each child, a year. For business travel, the corre- sponding amount is E 15,000 a person at a rate not exceeding E 750 a day. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sweden is the Swedish Krona. In managing the exchange rate of the krona, the Sveriges Riksbank (the central bank) is guided by a trade-weighted index based on a basket of 15 currencies of Sweden's most important trading partners. In constructing the ind^x, the Swedish authorities established two criteria to be met by each country and currency included in the basket: (1) the country had to account for at least 1 percent of Sweden's total foreign trade (exports plus imports) during the previous five-year period, and (2) each currency had to be quoted daily on the foreign ex- change market in Stockholm. The weights are pro- portional to Sweden's foreign trade with each of the countries whose currencies are included in the in- dex, with the exception that the weight of the U.S. dollar has been doubled and that of the other cur- rencies adjusted accordingly. To take account of changes in average trade shares, the weights are adjusted each year (on April 1) on the basis of trade statistics for the last five calendar years. At present, the weights are as follows (base period 1983-87): U.S. dollar Deutsche mark Pound sterling Norwegian krone Danish krone Finnish markka French franc Netherlands guilder Italian lira Belgian franc Japanese yen Swiss franc Austrian schilling Spanish peseta Canadian dollar Total 22.8 16.0 11.7 9.0 7.8 6.5 5.2 4.6 3.7 3.6 3.3 2.1 1.3 1.3 1.1 100.0 The index value of 132 represents the benchmark for the effective value following the devaluation on October 8, 1982 (August 29, 1977 = 100). The ex- change rate is managed so as to allow only limited fluctuations around this benchmark; beginning in June 1985, fluctuations in the spot rate are limited within 1.5 percent on either side of the announced 462 benchmark. An average of the daily index values is published weekly by the Riksbank. The market buy- ing and selling rates for spot transactions in U.S. dollars, the intervention currency, on December 30, 1988 were SKr 6.1340 and SKr 6.1360, respectively, per US$1. Spot rates for other currencies are estab- lished on the basis of the cross rates in international markets. Forward market rates are left to the inter- play of market forces. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks and residents any foreign cur- rency on a spot or forward basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kroner. All transactions with residents in a foreign currency against Swed- ish kroner are permitted, provided they are con- ducted through authorized banks. Authorized banks may also purchase (sell) foreign currencies, spot, from (to) foreign banks and other nonresi- dents against any foreign currency or Swedish kroner credited (debited) to an External Kronor Ac- count (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Authorized banks may conclude with residents forward exchange transactions in foreign currencies against Swedish kroner without restriction (on each occasion when a forward transaction is allowed, cur- rency options may be concluded). Forward transac- tions may be concluded only to cover payments for which an agreement exists. However, export firms may make forward sales of settlement on the en- visaged date of payment or, when tendering, on the expiry date for tendering. Authorized banks may without exceptions conclude with residents forward transactions in any foreign currency against another foreign currency. Authorized banks may buy for- ward from and sell forward to other authorized banks, foreign banks, and nonresidents any foreign currency against another foreign currency or Swed- ish kroner. Limits are placed on the net foreign exchange holdings, spot and forward, of each authorized bank. Banks may grant only normal overdrafts to nonresidents, and may incur foreign exchange lia- bilities, including a net liability in any one currency within individual limits set for each bank. This, together with the permission to pay interest on for- eign exchange deposits held by nonresidents, en- ables the banks to borrow foreign currency from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 463 nonresidents for on-lending (but not in the form of kroner) to foreign banks. Swedish banks may, while observing their limits on net foreign exchange hold- ings, borrow abroad freely in order to sell the pro- ceeds against Swedish kronor in the market. Sweden formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Riksbank through its Exchange Control Board. Au- thorized banks and certain other authorized agen- cies implement the exchange control regulations. All current payments are exempt from exchange control, provided that they are made through au- thorized banks. These banks have also been granted general licenses to approve various payments that are subject to exchange control. When required, import and export licenses are issued by the Na- tional Board of Trade, except those for foodstuffs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Mar- ket Board. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through an External Kronor Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kronor: External Kronor Accounts and Restricted Accounts. External Kronor Accounts may be held with autho- rized banks by nonresidents domiciled abroad. They may be credited with authorized payments to foreign countries by residents, transfers from other External Kronor Accounts, and sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for authorized pay- ments to residents, transferred to any other Exter- nal Kronor Account, and may be used for conver- sion into any foreign currency. They do not normally bear interest. Restricted Accounts are held by persons who have become nonresidents after emigrating. The ac- counts may be credited with, for example, earnings and proceeds from sales of assets in Sweden, inheri- tances, and amortization on loans granted before emigration. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for payments in Sweden for such items as expenses related to assets in Sweden, maintenance costs, purchase of Swedish securities and real estate in Sweden, and loans to residents. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of some agricultural and fish- ery products, practically all goods are free from quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than Albania, Bul- garia, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslo- vakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. However, most imports from these countries are liberalized. Imports of certain textile products from some countries and territories (Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Malta, Pakistan, the Philippines, Sin- gapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan Province of China, Thai- land, Turkey, and Yugoslavia) are limited through special arrangements. In addition, imports of spec- ified textiles from any source other than the Euro- pean Communities (EC), the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) countries, Australia, Canada, the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, Japan, New Zea- land, and the United States, as well as imports of most iron and steel products from all countries, are subject to import licensing for surveillance pur- poses. Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Payments for imports may, as current payments, be made freely through an authorized bank. Im- porters are also permitted to accept foreign sup- pliers' credits, provided that such credits are re- garded as customary. Payments for Invisibles Invisible payments that are considered as current may be made by residents in favor of nonresidents without restrictions, provided that they are made through an authorized bank. Occasional payments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 3,000 are con- sidered current regardless of the purpose. Foreign exchange for travel abroad may be allocated by au- thorized banks and other authorized agencies up to an amount considered reasonable in light of the purpose and duration of the journey. Each person leaving Sweden may take out Swed- ish bank notes and coin up to SKr 6,000. Nonresi- dents leaving Sweden may export freely foreign bank notes and other means of payment that have been acquired abroad or from an authorized bank or other authorized agency in Sweden. While abroad, residents may open accounts abroad, provided that at the end of the stay the balance is transferred to Sweden. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 464 SWEDEN Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to the People's Democratic Republic of Korea, as well as exports of special steel to the United States, are subject to export licensing. All other exports, with some exceptions such as ships and scrap metal, are free from license. Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from exports of goods may be sold to an authorized bank for kronor or kept in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each per- son entering Sweden may, for traveling expenses, bring in unlimited amounts of bank notes, coin, and other means of payment. Capital The various categories of capital transactions are governed by specific regulations as follows: (1) Direct investments. A permit from the Riksbank or from an authorized bank is required for direct investments abroad by residents. These permits are normally granted. New investment in South Africa and Namibia has been banned since July 1, 1979. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require a permit from the Riksbank or from an authorized bank, which is always given. (2) Loans. Swedish exporters and importers are normally authorized to raise foreign-currency loans abroad or from an authorized bank in order to fi- nance suppliers' credits and imports, respectively. Loans with a life of up to six months can be obtained from an authorized bank without a special permit from the Riksbank, provided that the purpose is to finance exports or imports of goods. Authorized banks may consequently raise loans abroad in for- eign currency for on-lending to enterprises for that purpose. The Riksbank normally grants permits to enter- prises and local governments to raise medium- and long-term loans in foreign currency abroad, provided the average life of the loans is at least one year; loans can be raised from an authorized bank by enterprises and local governments without a per- mit from the Riksbank. Authorized banks may, without limit, lend for- eign currencies to Swedish-owned companies abroad or to buyers of Swedish exports or sellers of Swedish imports. Authorized banks may lend for- eign currencies to, or issue guarantees in favor of, foreign borrowers for purposes unrelated to Swed- ish trade or Swedish-owned companies. (3) Transactions in securities. Residents do not need authorization to sell portfolio holdings of foreign securities to nonresidents. The purchase of foreign securities from nonresidents by residents is gener- ally not permitted. However, authorized banks and stockbrokers may on behalf of residents purchase from nonresidents foreign securities and listed Swedish securities denominated in foreign curren- cies if payment is made with proceeds from sales to nonresidents of Swedish-held securities denomi- nated in a foreign currency and the purchase is made within six months of the corresponding sale. During 1988 the Riksbank issued permits to pur- chase such shares through authorized banks and other authorized agencies for a total of SKr 3 billion. A general license permits the repurchase from abroad of listed Swedish securities denominated in kronor, provided that a bona fide nonresident ownership is confirmed by an affidavit or by regis- tration with the Securities Register Center. A general license permits sales of listed shares and OTC shares to nonresidents. Authorized banks and stockbrokers may handle purchases by nonresi- dents of Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor if the payment is made with the proceeds from sales of other similar securities to residents and if certain other conditions are fulfilled. (4) Emigration. When emigrating, a resident is permitted, on application, to transfer up to SKr 200,000. In addition, the emigrant may be per- mitted to transfer up to SKr 800,000 a family for the purchase of dwellings abroad if the tax authority certifies that the emigrant does not have tax arrears. The remainder of an emigrant's funds may be trans- ferred after confirmation by the tax authorities that the emigrant is no longer residing in Sweden. (5) Other transfers. Authorized banks may approve payments abroad in respect of various categories of remittances. For the purchase of dwellings abroad for personal use, transfers up to SKr 800,000 a fam- ily may be approved. Payments constituting gifts may be approved up to SKr 5,000 a calendar year, and transfers to nonresidents on account of inheri- tance are permitted. Residents may, without a per- mit from the Riksbank, accept capital receipts from abroad related to such purposes as life pensions, annuity contracts, contractual amortizations, the sales of foreign securities and real estate abroad, gifts, and inheritances. Gold There are no special regulations on trading in gold. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 465 Changes During 1988 Capital February 12. The restriction whereby at least 50 percent of direct foreign investment in Sweden had to be financed from abroad was abolished. February 12. A general exemption was announced for the sale to nonresidents of Swedish quoted shares and OTC shares. June 1. The granting of permits for direct invest- ment for the manufacture, assembly, transport, and sale of goods was delegated to the authorized banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND1 (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss Franc. The Swiss National Bank does not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined, in principle, on the basis of under- lying demand and supply conditions in the ex- change markets. However, the Swiss National Bank reserves the right to intervene if and when war- ranted by prevailing circumstances. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar; on December 30, 1988, the mid-point market rate for the Swiss franc in terms of the U.S. dollar was SwF 1.5040 per US$1. All settlements may be made at free market rates. Foreign bank notes are negotiated freely in Switzer- land at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate foreign exchange contracts with banks in all currencies, in respect of both commer- cial and financial transactions. There are no of- ficially fixed premia and discount rates applicable to forward exchange contracts, and all forward ex- change transactions are negotiated at free market rates. Under the Export Risk Guarantee System, export receipts, excluding exchange rate risks, may be insured by the Government under certain conditions. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import and export, the Prin- cipality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory. For purposes of monetary policy measures, natural persons domiciled in Liechten- stein are considered by Switzerland as residents, and so are juridical persons including banks. How- ever, this rule does not apply if the acquisition of Swiss real estate is involved. Liechtenstein is con- sidered a foreign country for purposes of banking supervision. Administration of Control Authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting on the advice of the Switzerland is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. Federal Department of Public Economy, the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs, or the Federal De- partment of Finance. The Swiss National Bank is the advisory and executive authority in matters of cur- rency for both Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Capi- tal export transactions of financial institutions, however, are subject to approval by the Swiss Na- tional Bank (see section on Capital). Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any currency. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, imports into Switzerland may be made freely. The importation of alcohol is subject to state monopoly. The most important com- modities subject to license, irrespective of their origin, are certain agricultural products, petroleum products, and washing preparations and their com- pounds. Import permits for goods under license are generally granted freely, but global quotas are es- tablished for certain agricultural products. Imports of textiles from specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Payments for imports from all countries may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The export of Swiss and foreign bank notes is unrestricted. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods, including weapons and scraps, is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export- licensing system is operated in part with the assis- tance of appropriate semi-official or private organi- zations. Export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign bank notes is unrestricted. 466 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 467 Capital Transfers of capital may be made without for- mality, except that foreign bond and note issues in Switzerland and direct participations or subpar- ticipations by Swiss banks in Eurobond issues, when amounting to or exceeding Sw F 10 million each and with a maturity of 12 months or more, require permission. A stamp tax is payable on trans- action in Swiss-issued (foreign-issued) securities at the rate of 0.10 (0.20) percent with a maturity of up to three months and at the rate of 0.15 (0.30) percent with a maturity of over three months. Foreign in- stitutions are allowed, in principle, to participate in syndicated Swiss franc issue transactions, if they are domiciled in Switzerland. For bank credits (exceed- ing Sw F 10 million and with a maturity of longer than 12 months), the Swiss National Bank grants a general permit. Each generally authorized capital export transaction must be reported to the Swiss National Bank. Physical importation and exporta- tion of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. The banks are permitted to pay interest on Swiss franc deposits (including "fiduciary" or "trustee" funds) received from nonresidents. A select number of banks and finance companies are required to report their positions (their own assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, spot and forward) in domestic and foreign currencies on a monthly basis, and their dealer position, on a weekly basis.2 Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons or firms of foreign nationality who are domiciled or resident abroad require approval by the canton in which the property is situated. The approval of the canton is subject to supervision and appeal by the Confederation. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold bars and of certain gold coins are exempt from customs duty. Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial imports and ex- ports of certain articles containing gold. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 2The requirement that banks and finance companies report their dealer position on a weekly basis was abolished, as from February 13, 1989. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Syrian Arab Republic is the Syrian Pound, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency. A multiple exchange rate system, consisting of two basic rates and two special rates, is maintained. The official rate of LS 11.225 = US$1 applies, on the receipts side, to most export transactions, some travel earnings, loans, grants, and other budgetary receipts; and, on the payments side, to public sector imports, public sector invisible payments (except travel), and capital transactions. The promotion rate of LS 21.00 = US$1 applies, on the receipts side, to private remittances, most travel and tourism transactions, transfers of Syrian gov- ernment employees working abroad, and some ex- port proceeds; and on the payments side, to travel allowances, tourism, and medical expenses. Two special exchange rates are applied: LS 16.25 = US$1 for purchases of airline tickets by nonresidents; and LS 18.00 = US$1 for transfers abroad by airline companies. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are confined within LS 11.20 and LS 11.25, respectively, per US$1. On December 31, 1988, the official buying and selling rates were LS 11.20 and LS 11.25, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for all major currencies are quoted on the basis of the official and promotion rates in relation to the rates for the currencies concerned in markets abroad.1 Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is deter- mined by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Ex- change Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions, by the Ex- change Office. Only authorized commercial banks may deal in foreign exchange. The commercial banks may open letters of credit only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. At present there is Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria, which has been authorized by the Exchange Office to open letters of credit and accept bills for collection without prior approval, provided that cer- tain conditions are fulfilled. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. Proceeds of exports to all countries may be obtained in any convertible currency. Prescription of currency re- quirements are not applied to outgoing payments. All payments to and receipts from Egypt, Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. The Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral payments agreements with the Islamic Republic of Iran, Sri Lanka, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam, of which the first and the third agreements are operative. Private sector ex- porters to countries with which the Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral payments arrange- ments are required to ship 20 percent of their ex- ports to countries conducting foreign trade in con- vertible currencies. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized bank and with payments for goods. They may be debited without prior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the ac- count holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Republic. Residents wishing to open foreign cur- rency accounts are required to present evidence in writing that they have sources of income abroad. Nonresidents (individuals and corporations) may open accounts in convertible foreign currencies at authorized local banks for the deposit of funds from abroad. Balances in such accounts may be sold to local banks, transferred abroad without restrictions, or used in payment for specified imports. Temporary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily residing in the Syrian Arab Republic. These accounts may not be used, however, for funds received in settlement currencies, through payments conventions, or by diplomatic and United Nations (UN) missions and their staffs. Permitted credits include the local cur- rency proceeds of foreign currency brought in at the 468 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 469 promotion exchange market rate and amounts cor- responding to import payments that are not trans- ferred. Debits for local expenditures are completely free, and debits for expenditures abroad also are permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Egypt, Is- rael, or South Africa are prohibited. Many basic commodities (including green coffee, paper, salt, rice, tea, tobacco, wheat, iron and steel, and certain agricultural machinery) are imported only by state- trading agencies or, for their own account, by cer- tain other official agencies. Agencies having the sole authority to import may be required to import cer- tain commodities to meet the raw material needs of the private sector. In 1987 the list of permitted goods that can be imported by the private sector was en- larged to include certain agricultural goods, indus- trial goods, and raw materials. Imports of goods not on the permitted list are prohibited with certain exceptions. In principle, im- ports must come direct from the country of origin, without the intervention of any foreign firm; the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. Imports from the Syrian free zone are al- lowed for certain industrial goods and for goods with a free zone value added of at least 40 percent. All imports, except those valued at less than LS 2,000 (LS 500 for imports from Lebanon) require licenses, which must be obtained by the importer prior to the date of shipment of the goods. Opera- tions of the state-trading agencies are governed by the annual foreign exchange budget. On the basis of the budget, these agencies submit documentation on their import requirements to the Ministry of Economy and the customs authorities, and import licenses are automatically issued. Certain imports (not appearing on the list of prohibited imports) from Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are exempt from license, in accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement. In such cases an au- thorization to import is granted in response to a written request. Payments for imports by the Government and public sector enterprises are effected at the official market rate. In principle, private sector importers are authorized to import products specified on the permitted list by opening letters of credit at the Commercial Bank of Syria. In practice, as foreign exchange is not made available, private sector im- ports must be financed with importers' own re- sources. There are presently four avenues available to private sector importers: (1) external credit ar- rangements, including suppliers' credits of 180 days' maturity, and third-party financing; (2) use of foreign currency deposits maintained in Syria by nonresidents; (3) use of importers' own foreign ex- change deposits maintained abroad; and (4) use of foreign exchange deposited in the Commercial Bank of Syria under the export proceed retention regulations. Import deposits are waived for some categories of agricultural and industrial equipment, raw mate- rials, and spare parts for both public and private importers. For other public imports, a 100 percent advance deposit requirement, valued at the official rate, is in force. A non-interest-bearing advance import deposit of up to 50 percent of the import value is required for private sector imports financed through foreign credit facilities; the exchange rate of LS 11.25 = US$1 is used in the conversion. Other private imports are subject to a 100 percent advance import deposit requirement in foreign exchange. There is a tax of 2 percent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and im- ports of certain essential items, including raw mate- rials, petroleum, and petroleum products. In addi- tion, there is a unified import surcharge, which has replaced all the previous special levies on imports (a statistical tax, a municipal consumption tax, a de- fense tax, a school tax, and a maritime transport and port tax). Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles must be made at the promotion rate (LS 21.0 = US$1), while trade- related transactions of the public sector are made at the official exchange rate, and certain other spec- ified payments, at the special rates. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange, with a limit of US$1,000 a trip for all countries except for Jordan and Lebanon. Of this limit, up to the equivalent of LS 5,000 a year may be purchased at the promotion rate for travel to Arab countries (except Jordan and Lebanon) and up to the equivalent of LS 7,500 a year for travel to non- Arab countries. Travelers to Jordan and Lebanon are not eligible for foreign exchange travel allowance, but may take with them up to LS 2,000 a trip in Syrian bank notes. With this exception, Syrian bank notes may not be taken out of the country. For children 10 years old or younger, the allowances are 50 percent of these amounts. Workers on second- ment to a foreign country may take with them for- eign exchange equivalent to 25 percent of the above- mentioned allocations and the entire amount of the allocations on production of proof that they have ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 470 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC transferred foreign exchange from abroad. For travel to payments agreement countries, 50 percent of the travel allocation must be taken up through the clearing account concerned (30 percent for travel on official business). On departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 400 a person if traveling to Arab countries, and LS 1,000 a person for other destinations. Fixed allocations are maintained for other transac- tions in invisibles, as follows: 60 percent of the sal- aries received by foreign technicians and experts employee! in the Syrian Arab Republic, and 50 percent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international missions in the Syrian Arab Republic. All other transactions require the prior approval of the Exchange Office Committee, with the exception of embassies and international organizations, which may convert up to 50 percent of transfers at the promotion rate, and the remain- ing 50 percent at the official exchange rate. Nonresi- dents leaving the country are not allowed to recon- vert Syrian currency into foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, barley, cotton, cottonseed, and their derivatives are nationalized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of petroleum are handled by the Petroleum Market- ing Office. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for government agencies, state- trading agencies, or specified companies. Exports of a few goods to all countries and all exports to Egypt, Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports of certain products and of all goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, li- censes are not required. For most exports, however, a repatriation commitment is required, by which the exporter undertakes to bring the proceeds to the Syrian Arab Republic and surrender them to the Commercial Bank of Syria within three months of the date of export shipment to Arab countries and within four months of the date of export shipment to other countries. The proceeds from exports of the public and pri- vate sectors are subject to various surrender require- ments and different exchange rates. Public sector enterprises may retain their export proceeds in spe- cial foreign currency accounts and use the proceeds to import goods on the permitted list, subject to prior approval, or they may surrender export pro- ceeds at the official exchange rate of LS 11.20 = US$1. Exporters of specified products in the private sector may retain up to 75 percent of export pro- ceeds to finance imports from a permitted list, even if the products to be imported were not directly related to their exporting activity; imports may be undertaken on behalf of public sector entities and some other private sector activities. At present, most private sector exporters are thus required to surrender to the Commercial Bank of Syria only 25 percent of their proceeds at the official exchange rate of LS 11.20 = US$1; the remaining 75 percent can be deposited at the Commercial Bank of Syria in special earmarked export exchange accounts until imports are made or foreign exchange is voluntarily sold to the Commercial Bank. In the case of fruits, vegetables, and sheep, private sector exporters may convert the 25 percent surrender requirement at the promotion rate of LS 21.00 = US$1. Private sector exporters to countries with which the Syrian Arab Republic maintains bilateral pay- ments arrangements are required to ship 20 percent of their exports to countries conducting foreign trade in convertible currencies and may use their export proceeds in convertible currencies to import raw materials and spare parts for their own produc- tion activity. The retained export proceeds must be deposited in a special export exchange account de- nominated in foreign currency with the Commer- cial Bank of Syria. The Commercial Bank of Syria may accept prepayments for exports of Syrian prod- ucts by residents and nonresidents without refer- ring to the Central Bank of Syria. Certain manufac- tured exports receive subsidies from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. Exports of fruits, vegetables, and vegetable oil are subject to an export tax of 8 percent ad valorem. Exports of other agricultural products are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 7 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions by the public sector must be sold at the official market rate, but those from transactions by the private sector must be sold at the promotion rate. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in un- limited foreign exchange in any form, subject to declaration upon entry. Foreign bank notes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents. There is no limit on the amount of Syrian bank notes that may be brought into the country by residents and nonresidents. All Syrian nationals employed by Arab, foreign, or international organizations inside the Syrian Arab Republic and paid in full or in part in foreign currencies are required to exchange all such earnings at authorized banks at the official exchange rate. With few exceptions, non-Syrian visitors to the Syrian Arab Republic are required to settle their bills ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC 471 at deluxe and first-class hotels with the counterpart of foreign currencies exchanged by them at autho- rized local banks at the official exchange rate. Upon entering the country, all such visitors, other than nationals of Arab countries, are each required to convert a minimum of US$100 into local currency at the official exchange rate. All Syrian Government employees working abroad and covered by the Se- curity and Pension Act and the Social Security Act are required to repatriate and convert at the promo- tion rate a minimum of 25 percent of each year's pay and allowances received in foreign exchange. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers by the public sector take place at the official market rate, while transactions by the private sector are deter- mined by the Exchange Office of the Central Bank on a case-by-case basis. Imports of private funds in the form of foreign exchange are free for private individuals, whether residents or nonresidents. The export of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office, as does most borrowing abroad. Order No. 265 of June 10, 1970 provides special facilities for the investment of funds of immigrants and of nationals of Arab states in the economic development of the Syrian Arab Republic. Incen- tives for foreign investment in tourism include a seven-year exemption from all taxes and municipal charges; exemption from income tax on 50 percent of profits; exemptions from customs duties and other taxes on imports of raw materials, tools, vehi- cles, and other equipment; permission to import inputs needed for repairs up to a value of 3 percent of the previous year's turnover; and authorization to open foreign currency accounts. New incentives were introduced in order to promote foreign invest- ment in agriculture and agroindustries. These in- clude a seven-year exemption from all taxes (includ- ing income tax) beginning from the first financial year in which profits are declared, and exemption from import and foreign exchange restrictions. For- eign companies may transfer profits abroad, but not capital except in cases where the investments are in accordance with presidential decrees. Syrian non- residents and Arab nationals may transfer abroad up to 50 percent of profits a year. In the case of mixed enterprises, which are exempt from import duties and profit taxes for a period of five to seven years after realizing profits, the foreign participants may transfer abroad both profits and capital. Invest- ment guarantee agreements have been signed with France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzer- land, and the United States. Immovable property in the Syrian Arab Republic may be acquired by non- residents or foreign nationals other than resident Arab nationals only after presentation of evidence that the foreign exchange equivalent of the price of the property has been converted into Syrian pounds at an authorized local bank. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell manufac- tured gold in the Syrian Arab Republic without re- striction. Domestic transactions in manufactured gold take place at free market prices that are in line with free market prices abroad. Imports of gold are exempt from import licensing, but exports are sub- ject to licensing. Proceeds from exports by residents must be surrendered. Exports of gold previously imported by nonresidents out of their resources abroad are subject to a repatriation commitment covering the cost of manufacturing and the profit earned. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The official exchange rate was devalued from LS 3.90 (buying) and LS 3.95 (selling) per US$1 to LS 11.20 (buying) and LS 11.25 (selling) per US$1. At the same time, the parallel market and tourist market rates were abolished, and transactions in these markets were transferred to the official and promotion exchange rate markets. February 17. The special exchange rates applicable to certain student expenses abroad were elimi- nated, and allowances were provided at the official exchange rate. September 14. The special exchange rate of LS 8.85 = US$1 applicable to imports of medicines was eliminated, and these imports were subject to the official exchange rate. Imports and Import Payments April 16. Producers of ready-to-wear garments were authorized to import up to one half of their cloth input requirements outside the permitted im- port system. June 12. Producers of dry fruits were authorized to import raw materials from neighboring countries, including Lebanon. September 29. The permission granted previously to merchants to import goods that are not on the permitted list up to a value of LS 70,000 in a 12- month period was withdrawn. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 472 SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exports and Export Proceeds January 26. Public sector enterprises were autho- rized to retain all of their export proceeds in special foreign currency accounts maintained at the Com- mercial Bank of Syria and were allowed to use the proceeds to import goods on the permitted list sub- ject to prior approval. September 14. Export proceeds received in bank notes denominated in convertible currencies and declared at the border posts of entry were suspended. October 31. Proceeds from exports of fruits, vege- tables, and sheep in the private sector that were previously surrendered at the official exchange rate were permitted to be converted at the promotion rate. Proceeds from Invisibles March 30. The regulations governing the repatria- tion of earnings of Syrian Government employees working abroad and covered by the Security and Pension Act and the Social Security Act were changed by permitting a minimum of 25 percent of each year's pay and allowances in foreign exchange to be converted at the promotion rate. Capital October 30. The regulations governing funds of embassies and international organizations held in foreign currency accounts were changed; up to one half of these funds were allowed to be converted at the promotion rate and the remaining 50 percent at the official exchange rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzania Shilling, which is pegged to a basket of currencies of Tan- zania's main trading partners. The Bank of Tan- zania quotes daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar. On December 30, 1988, the Bank of Tanzania's buying and selling rates for the shilling in terms of the U.S. dollar were T Sh 124.7753 and T Sh 125.1660, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates for other currencies1 are deter- mined on the basis of the cross rates for these cur- rencies in relation to the U.S. dollar in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The Bank of Tanzania applies a spread of 0.5 percent between the buying and selling rates. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the admin- istration of exchange control to the Bank of Tan- zania. In principle, authority for making payments abroad should be delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the two authorized banks —the National Bank of Commerce and the People's Bank of Zanzibar. In practice, virtually all outward payments have to be approved by the Bank of Tanzania; control over ex- change operations in Zanzibar is exercised by the People's Bank of Zanzibar. On the mainland, import control is administered by the Imports Controller in the Bank of Tanzania, and export control, by the Exports Controller in the Ministry of Trade and Industries. The Bank of Tan- zania acts as the registrar of exporters. The respon- sibility for issuing specific import and export li- censes rests with the Controllers, to whom applications must be submitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before import orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Zanzibar ad- ministers an independent system of foreign trade controls through a Board of Trade; all imports and Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Comorian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Netherlands guilders, Ethiopian birr, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Lesotho mal- oti, Malawian kwacha, Mauritian rupees, Mozambique meticais, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Somali shillings, Swaziland emalangeni, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, Zambian kwacha, and Zim- babwe dollars. the principal exports are effected by the state- trading agencies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation). Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzania and nonresidents must be made either in convertible currencies or in Tanzania shillings by debit or credit to a Convertible Nonresident Account or Loro Account. Nonresident Accounts Accounts maintained by foreign nationals tem- porarily resident in Tanzania; firms, companies, or other organizations registered or incorporated out- side Tanzania; foreign diplomatic missions, the United Nations or other international organizations and their officials in Tanzania are designated as nonresident accounts. Nonresident accounts are broadly divided into two categories: convertible and nonconvertible. Balances on convertible accounts are eligible for transfer from Tanzania without any further scrutiny of, or approval by, the Bank of Tan- zania. Balances on nonconvertible accounts may be transferred from Tanzania after approval is ob- tained from the Bank of Tanzania. There are six subcategories of nonresident accounts—namely, External, Shipping/Airline, Special, Ordinary, Ex- patriate, and Unspecified. Tanzanian nationals and foreign nationals normally resident in Tanzania who have gone abroad for vacation, employment, or other purposes may maintain both Special and Ordinary Accounts in the form of a current, sav- ings, or deposit account, according to the option of the account holders. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Cer- tain imports into the mainland from any source may be prohibited for reasons of health or security. All goods in value equivalent to or more than T Sh 10,000 require a license before they can be imported into the country. Under the Own Foreign Exchange Import Scheme, import licenses are is- sued on request for importation of a specified list of commodities. 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 474 TANZANIA Customs tariffs are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports, and the tariff schedule is ad valorem. Most items, particularly intermediate and capital goods, are subject to a minimum rate of 30 percent. The rate on most consumer goods is 60 percent, and the maximum rate is 100 percent. Statutory exemptions are the diplomatic corps; religious, educational, and welfare institutions; aircraft engines; aviation fuel; scientific, educational, or religious films; printed matter; cable and telephone material; sewing ma- chines; and timber for use by mining companies. Discretionary full or partial exemptions are allowed by the Minister of Finance if imports are considered to be in the public interest. A semiannual foreign exchange plan provides for indicative foreign exchange allocations for goods to be imported subject to specific licenses. Although manufacturers are permitted to import many goods directly, the importation of specified goods is re- stricted to centralized import agencies. Unless spe- cifically exempted by the Bank of Tanzania, individ- ual consignments of imports amounting to T Sh 250,000 or above are subject to compulsory preshipment inspection by international agencies for quantity, quality, and price; part shipment in smaller lots against a pro forma invoice of T Sh 250,000 or more is also subject to preshipment inspection irrespective of the value of the smaller lots. All merchandise imports by the mainland must be insured with the National Insurance Corporation of Tanzania, and premiums must be paid in Tan- zania shillings. All imports into Zanzibar are made by Bizanje. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at rates ranging up to 50 percent of the c.i.f. value plus import duty. (This tax is also payable on sales of domestic products.) Since February 1988, the Government has made a portion of foreign exchange available on a nonad- ministrative basis for a selected positive list of pri- ority import categories through an Open General Licensing (OGL) system. During the initial period of operation of the OGL, multilateral and bilateral resources were disbursed against a predetermined list of priority raw materials, spare parts, and some other items. Initially, access to the OGL has been limited to US$100,000 for each import license and to an aggregate amount of US$200,000 for each im- porter. Under the new OGL system, the Govern- ment, assisted by the Industrial Rehabilitation and Trade Adjustment Credit of the World Bank, ex- panded the list of items eligible for importation and increased the ceiling for each import license to US$5,000 minimum and US$500,000 maximum. The OGL import license is valid for four months, and advance cash deposits are required in accor- dance with the normal commercial banking procedure. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are con- trolled and require the approval of the Bank of Tan- zania. Noncitizens working in Tanzania under con- tract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tanzania eventually may re- mit abroad, throughout their period of employ- ment, up to one third of their salary to cover family maintenance, savings, etc. Applications to remit more than one third of salary, or in excess of T Sh 6,000 a month, are considered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. The basic exchange allocations for tourist travel are not granted, and family remittances by resi- dents to relatives abroad are not allowed. A traveler is allowed to take out up to T Sh 100 in domestic currency. Nonresident travelers may take out for- eign currency notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit for any amount remaining out of the foreign exchange they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. On the mainland, exports of some products are handled by state-trading organizations and exports of certain other products are subject to controls and, if there is a local shortage, may be restricted. Exports for sale cannot be effected without an export license. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Exporters are required to be registered with the Bank of Tanzania and must maintain an account with a local commercial bank. Export proceeds must be repatriated in convertible currencies within two months of the date of exportation. However, on ap- plication to the Bank of Tanzania this period may be extended. Export proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank upon their collection, with the following exceptions. (1) Exporters of traditional products (six traditional export crops) may retain up to 10 percent of their export earnings to finance imports of raw materials and capital goods needed for their production activities. (2) Exporters of non- traditional products may retain up to 50 percent of their foreign exchange earnings and they may im- port goods on the list that are permitted to be fi- nanced by "own foreign exchange" for sale in the local market. (3) Exporters involved in a production activity must use all of their retained foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA 475 exchange for imports of raw materials and spare parts essential to their production activities. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an autho- rized bank upon collection. Travelers may freely bring in convertible foreign currency notes; a re- turning traveler may bring in Tanzania shilling notes and coins exported on departure, up to T Sh 100. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to control by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted; all capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania perma- nently for settlement abroad will not as a rule be granted foreign exchange facilities. When, however, any person is unable to maintain himself and his dependents and has no ostensible means of liveli- hood in Tanzania, limited foreign exchange facilities may be granted by the Bank of Tanzania purely on compassionate grounds. Gifts to nonresidents re- quire the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There is no restriction on the investment of for- eign funds in Tanzania but, to ensure eventual re- patriation, the investment should be recognized by the Bank of Tanzania, and a certificate of its status as an approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign In- vestment (Protection) Act, 1963 should be obtained from the Ministry of Finance. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval. All imports and exports of securities require ap- proval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase of Tanzanian securities by nonresidents from resi- dents, provided that payment is received in foreign exchange. The income from such securities is re- mittable, as are the proceeds from resale. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania by residents are not permitted. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresi- dents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies re- quire approval by the Bank of Tanzania. Gold A commemorative gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate within Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for numismatic purposes. With this exception, resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and au- thorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and ex- ports of gold in any form, other than jewelry con- stituting the personal effects of a traveler, are subject to individual licensing by the Bank of Tanzania. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued by the Bank of Tanzania and are available to goldsmiths only. Licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au- thorities, industrial users, and producers of newly mined gold; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement November 4. The exchange rate of the Tanzania shilling was adjusted against the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, from T Sh 98.2 per U.S. dol- lar to T Sh 120 per U.S. dollar. At the same time, all broken cross rates were realigned. Imports and Import Payments February 1. The Government began to make avail- able a portion of foreign exchange on a nonad- ministrative basis for a selected positive list of pri- ority import categories under an Open General License system. July 1. The fiscal year 1988/89 budget incorporated the reform of the customs tariffs, which included reduced exemptions, simplification of the rate struc- ture, and measures to strengthen tax administra- tion. The number of customs duty rates was re- duced from 20 to 7, the remaining specific duties were converted to ad valorem, and the maximum rate was reduced to 100 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Thailand is the Thai Baht. The external value of the baht is determined on the basis of the relationship of the baht to a weighted basket of currencies of Thailand's major trading partners as well as other considerations. The Exchange Equalization Fund announces daily the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, for transactions between itself and com- mercial banks; it also announces daily minimum buying and maximum selling rates that commercial banks must observe when dealing with the public in deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Malaysian ringgit, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, and U.S. dollars. On December 30, 1988, the middle official rate was B 25.24 = US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Forward exchange markets operate between commercial banks and customers and among the commercial banks. All forward transactions have to be related to underlying trade transactions, and the maturity of forward contracts is not permitted to exceed six months. The open foreign exchange positions of commercial banks are restricted by the Bank of Thailand. The forward premium in the baht/U.S. dollar rate is freely determined and usually reflects interest differentials between the two currencies. Under a Thai baht option system, importers are permitted to acquire the right to purchase U.S. dol- lars (from a minimum of $100,000) forward within a six-month period, and by special arrangement, within nine months. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to authorized banks and authorized persons. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All outgoing payments are subject to ap- proval (given automatically for bona fide commer- cial transactions and other current payments); cer- tain inward capital transfers may also be subject to approval, upon prescription by Ministerial notifica- tion.1 Imports of gold require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other imports and a 1 No such notification has yet been issued. few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the currency to be used for settlements with foreign countries; most payments are made in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts The Bank of Thailand encourages nonresidents to place foreign currency deposits with commercial banks in Thailand. No restrictions are placed on the opening of a foreign currency account as long as the funds originate abroad. Balances on such accounts may be transferred without formality or restrictions. A commercial bank may pay interest on such de- posits at competitive rates. Among baht deposits with commercial banks, there are two types of nonresident baht accounts: Transferable Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. In principle, transfers of baht to and from nonresident accounts require approval; there are exemptions, however, for nonresident accounts of foreign diplo- matic entities, international organizations based in Thailand, and Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds from sales to authorized banks of for- eign currency transferred from abroad, with amounts transferred from other Transferable Ac- counts, and with funds eligible for remittance abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transfer- able Accounts are convertible into foreign currency at any time and may be debited freely for the pur- chase of foreign currencies for transfer abroad, for transfers to other Transferable Accounts, for pay- ments in respect of exports, and for any other pay- ments to residents. Funds that are not eligible for credit to a Transferable Account must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Transfers of baht from Blocked Accounts for the purchase of foreign currency, ex- cept for certain current payments, are subject to approval by the Bank of Thailand; approval is granted when no capital transfer on behalf of a Thai national is involved. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely, but import licenses are required for some, and the im- port of certain others is prohibited for protective 476 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 477 and other reasons. All imports of goods originating in or shipped from South Africa are subject to li- censing. Imports of tea leaf, tea dust, skimmed milk, soybean meal, and silk yarn are subject to a requirement that the importer purchase a propor- tionate quantity of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Payments for imports may be approved by autho- rized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Thailand, which is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance payments in excess of US$2,000 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit with an expiry date exceeding nine months. Import- ers must obtain, in addition to the usual docu- ments, a "certificate of payment" from an autho- rized agent before imported goods exceeding B 50,000 in value can be cleared through customs; military equipment imported by the Ministry of De- fense and certain minor categories of imports are exempt from this requirement. Certain goods are subject to temporary import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and trans- fers for current international transactions. Payments for invisibles require authorization, which is usually given by an authorized bank or otherwise by the Bank of Thailand. Cargo insurance premiums due to foreign insurers may be remitted in foreign ex- change; if they are paid in baht to an agent or a branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income after taxes. The transfer of profits and dividends is permitted freely by the Bank of Thailand. Apart from foreign travel, family maintenance abroad, ed- ucational expenses abroad, and import payments, authorized agents are permitted to approve applica- tions for exchange without supporting documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of US$140. Authorized money changers are prohibited from selling foreign currency to the general public; their business of transacting foreign means of payment is restricted to the buying of foreign currency notes or traveler's checks payable in foreign currencies; all such proceeds must be sold to authorized banks within seven days. For persons traveling abroad for pleasure or personal business trips, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equivalent of US$1,500 a person (US$2,000 for busi- nessmen and government officials) for a trip of not more than 10 days, or the equivalent of US$150 a day (US$200 for businessmen and government officials) for a trip of not more than 15 days when a visa is not required and for a trip of not more than 30 days when a visa is required. These allowances are al- lowed on the condition that foreign currencies are taken out in the form of traveler's checks, foreign bank notes, credit card allowances, and traveling letters of credit. For foreign currencies taken out in other forms, such as drafts, a maximum of only US$3,000 is allowed automatically; for an amount of more than US$3,000, a formal request must be sub- mitted to the Bank of Thailand. For business or official travel, US$200 a day is allowed, and addi- tional foreign exchange not exceeding US$100 a day may be obtained in certain cases for entertainment expenses. Departing Thai residents are subject to a tax at a rate of B 1,000 for a trip by air. For family remittances, authorized banks may sell US$200 a month to each transferor for Europe and the United States and US$150 a month for other countries. Amounts above these limits require approval from the Bank of Thailand upon verification. A person may take out local currency not ex- ceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a family traveling on one passport), or foreign currency not exceeding US$1,000 for one person (US$2,000 for a family trav- eling on a single passport) or the equivalent in the form of notes and coins, without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. An amount above this limit, but not more than the allowed limit according to the duration of travel, may be sold in other forms of foreign currencies —e.g., traveler's checks. The resale of foreign currency to a person in transit is allowed, provided that the record of for- eign currency sold to a commercial bank or autho- rized agent is shown, and that the purchase is not greater than the amount previously sold. In addi- tion, foreign tourists may take out foreign bank notes or coins of value not exceeding US$10,000. Amounts in excess of this limit may be taken, pro- vided that they have been declared in writing to the customs officer at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are subject to licens- ing. Certain categories of exports are subject to li- censing and quantitative restrictions, and in a few cases, to prior approval, irrespective of destination.2 All other commodities may be exported freely, ex- cept to South Africa. Settlement for exports of silver exceeding US$5,000 in value must be made through 2These include gold, platinum, precious stones, live cattle and other specified animals, coffee, sorghum, corn, all types of sugar, brass and copper in certain forms, iron scrap and most forms of iron other than pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and Buddha images. Textile exports to certain markets are also subject to licensing. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 478 THAILAND irrevocable letters of credit. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" from an au- thorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs when the value of exports exceeds B 50,000. Export proceeds must be collected and sold to an authorized agent within 7 days of receipt; they must be surrendered within 15 days of the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight bill is drawn for collection, 15 days after the due date of a usance bill, or 15 days for other methods of payment, but in any case not later than 180 days after the date of export. Foreign tour- ists may freely take out precious stones and gold or platinum ornaments or other articles up to any value. The export of sugar is subject to export levies referred to as export premiums. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized agent. Authorized persons are allowed to purchase foreign currency notes and coin or trav- eler's checks payable in foreign currencies, but the latter must be resold to authorized banks. No per- son may bring into Thailand local currency exceed- ing B 2,000 without a permit (or B 4,000 for a family traveling on one passport). Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign notes and coin. Capital All outward transfers of capital, including pre- miums on life insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Personal capi- tal exports by residents are restricted. The Bank of Thailand approves the remittance of donations and gifts of a reasonable amount. Foreign exchange from inward capital movements must be sold to an authorized agent and the purpose of the transfer must be declared. Foreign investments in Thailand may be accorded preferential treatment under the Investment Pro- motion Act B.E. 2520 (issued on April 29,1977); this treatment includes a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capital re- patriation. The repatriation of other capital is con- sidered on the merits of each case; approval is nor- mally granted if it can be shown that the funds originated abroad. Certain economic activities are reserved for Thai nationals. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad re- quires approval by the Bank of Thailand. All other private loans taken up abroad may be registered with the Bank to facilitate approval of outward re- mittances. The Foreign Debt Committee must ap- prove external borrowing by the public sector. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coin, and unworked gold. Pur- chases or sales of gold on commodity futures ex- changes are prohibited. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry are subject to the following ar- rangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities: commercial imports of gold are restricted and require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Foreign tourists may take out gold ornaments up to any value. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited; traders' exports of gold orna- ments exceeding B 5,000 in value require a certifi- cate of exportation for presentation to customs, but they are free of export duty or taxes. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments January 6. Imports of k ra ft paper and corrugated paperboard were permitted. January 8. Imports of soybean oil were permitted until March 31, 1988. March 4. Imports of 5,000 tons of palm oil were permitted. March 15. Credit card holders in Thailand were permitted to use credit cards abroad for import pay- ments by submitting an application prior to their departure. May 24. Imports of steel rods were permitted. May 31. Import duties on steel rods and billets were reduced from 25 percent (for both items) to 20 percent and 15 percent, respectively, to be effec- tive until December 15, 1988. (On June 14, the duties were further reduced to 15 percent and 10 percent, respectively, also to be effective until December 15, 1988.) June 7. Importation of sodium borate, sodium biborate, sodium tetraborate, sodium pyborate, borax, boric acid, boraic acid, orthoborid acid, and borofax was permitted. June 10. Imports of 5,377 units of two-wheel walk- ing tractors and 705 units of used four-wheel trac- tors were permitted until the end of the year. August 31. The proportion of required local pur- chases to imports of silk warp was increased to 5 percent from 4 percent. September 28. Imports of 150,000 metric tons of soybean in the 1988/89 season were permitted. At the same time, the required ratio of local purchases to imports was set at 1:2. October 28. Import duties on fresh fish, crusta- ceans, and molluscs were exempted, effective from September 17, 1988. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 479 November 29. Imports of 5,000 metric tons of soy- bean were permitted, effective from November 29. December 20. Import duties on sawn wood and timber were reduced from 20 percent to 2 percent and from 10 percent to 1 percent, respectively, effec- tive from December 24, 1988. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. Thread and cloth quota allocations were divided into (1) the main quota, which is allocated to exporters according to their respective perfor- mances during a specified period and adjusted an- nually; and (2) the central quota, which consists of the quota left over from the main quota, and the quota that has been withdrawn from exporters vio- lating the rules. Similarly, the garment quota alloca- tion was divided into: (1) the main quota, which is allocated based on the latest export performance (for foreign companies, the total quotas allocated can- not exceed 6 percent of the total quota for each garment category); and (2) the central quota, which consists of those quotas that are left over from the main quota. Central quotas are to be allocated to exporters in the order of their date of exports. Trans- fers of main quotas between firms would be al- lowed, but would be discouraged, as the main quota of the transferring firm would be reduced by at least 5 percent of the value of the quota transferred. April 8. The export bonus ratio was changed f rom 1 to 1 to 1.3 to 1 for the export of tapioca products to the countries that do not belong to the European Communities (EC). April 11. The Bank of Thailand announced it would refinance promissory notes issued by sugar- cane exporters. The refinancing amount would be calculated as the quantity of sugarcane delivered to mills during the 1987/88 crop year multiplied by B 50 a ton. Refinancing would be given through com- mercial banks at an interest rate of 5 percent a year to be lent fur ther at a rate of no more than 7 percent a year during April 11-September 30, 1988. April 22. The regulations on the export of maize, grain sorghum, green beans, kapok, wool, salt, and castor seed were relaxed, in that the members of the Thai Maize and Produce Traders Association as well as the members of the Thai Agricultural Merchant Association were permitted to export. May 23. The bonus quota of tapioca exports to EC countries during September 23-December 31, 1988 was set at 500,000 tons. May 27. The Bank of Thailand announced it would refinance promissory notes issued by rice exporters at the rate of 60 percent of face value during May 27-July 28, 1988. (Subsequently, the refinancing period was extended twice, first until August 31 and then until October 31, 1988.) May 31. The reduction of the business tax on tin and tin ore exports to 1 percent of gross receipts was extended for another year. July 19. The export fee on frozen duck was re- duced by 50 satangs a kilogram. July 21. Exporters of any luggage made of silk- blend and noncotton vegetable fiber would have to seek approval from the Ministry of Commerce, ex- cept for those exports that had already been ap- proved by the Customs Department and those that would be intended for personal use. July 26. Exports of coffee that did not meet the 1987/88 quotas were permitted during Octo- ber 1988-September 1989. Exporters wishing to ex- port unfilled quotas were required to deposit B 10,000 for each ton that had not been exported, with the deposits being redeemable when the re- quirement would be fulfilled. November 8. The business tax was exempted on fish exports, effective from November 26, 1988. Capital May 6. Authorized banks were permitted to ac- cept foreign notes and coins up to US$5,000 or its equivalent for deposit in a foreign currency account in favor of a person in transit or a person entering Thailand temporarily. June 9. Authorized banks were permitted to ex- port foreign notes in surplus of normal banking operations for deposit abroad without prior ap- proval from the Bank of Thailand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Togo is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention cur- rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The Banque Cen- trale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) levies a commission of 0.10 per mill on transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union (WAMU) and of 2.50 per mill on transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission on trans- fers to all countries outside the WAMU, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Contracting of forward exchange cover requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance, and permission may be granted only in respect of importation of certain clearly specified goods. The maturity of exchange contracts must be up to three months for goods deemed essential or strategic and one month for all other goods. There is no official currency swap scheme or guaranteed exchange rate for debt servicing. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Togo's ex- change controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Mona- co; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Cen- tral African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Mali, Niger, and Senegal). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which also supervises irThe CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo. 2Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offer- ing for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. A Foreign Exchange Legal Com- mission has been created to advise the Minister of Economy and Finance on requests to settle cases involving violations of foreign exchange regulations concerning amounts exceeding CFAF 500,000 and on express requests from violators of foreign ex- change regulations. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries and the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, financial institutions, the Postal and Telecommunications Office (Office des Postes et Telecommunications), and offices of government ministries, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. Forwarding and re- ceipt of bank notes through the mail by authorized intermediaries are subject to control by the BCEAO. All exchange transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal and Telecommunications Office, or the BCEAO. Import and virtually all export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Licenses for the export of cereals and other food crops are issued by the Commission Nationale d'Attribution des Licenses d'Exportation, but within the quota and volume limits set by the Tech- nical Committee for Cereal Exports, after the ap- proval of the Council of Ministers. Exports of local manufactured products are not subject to export licensing. Prescription of Currency Since Togo is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Mona- co, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current pay- ments involving The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally effected through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through corre- spondent banks in France, in any of the currencies 480 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 481 of these countries, or in French francs through For- eign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Opera- tions Account is not permitted, except for credits to Foreign Accounts held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks, which may be credited with BCEAO bank notes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Lome by those correspondents. Foreign Accounts in Francs may also be debited, without authorization, with BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign corre- spondents through the BCEAO agency in Lome. Imports and Import Payments All imports of South African origin are pro- hibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely, but require the prior au- thorization of the Foreign Trade Division in the Min- istry of Commerce and Transport when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more and are for commercial pur- poses. Imports from all other countries require indi- vidual import licenses when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more, but all requests for import licenses, irre- spective of the origin of the goods, are granted, with the following exceptions: (1) imports of live or pro- cessed broilers is prohibited; (2) the issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin, footwear other than luxury or sports foot- wear with an f .o .b. value of less than CFAF 3,000, frozen chickens and chicken offals is conditional, in principle, on the purchase of a specified quantity of the local product (in practice, this requirement is no longer enforced in respect of printed piece goods); (3) quotas are applied to a few selected intermediary products, e.g., cement and steel; and (4) used cars, used tires, and used replacement parts may be im- ported only by dealers legally established in Togo and possessing an authorization from the Minister of Commerce and Transportation. The import mo- nopoly of the Societe Nationale de Commerce for sugar, rice, flour, canned milk, numerous alcoholic beverages, and tobacco and tobacco products has been abolished. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, with the exception of imports not involving payment or financed through the Postal and Telecommunications Office and certain imports of a special nature. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange (spot), but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the products have already been im- ported. Purchases of foreign exchange for down payment are subject to prior authorization by the Minister, which may be granted only on the date such payment is due and only for up to 30 percent of each transaction involving capital goods and 10 per- cent for other transactions. All import operations exceeding CFAF 200,000 are conditional on mer- chandise insurance being taken out and domiciled with an approved insurance company in Togo. Un- less specifically exempted by the Minister of Com- merce, prior to customs clearance, imports are sub- ject to quality, quantity, and price inspection, as well as a verification of the customs tariff position by international agencies. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles re- lated to trade are permitted by a general authoriza- tion when the basic trade transaction has been ap- proved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also generally permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under 10 years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 re- maining after return to Togo must be surrendered within eight days of re-entry. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreign national working in Togo is permitted upon presen- tation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, or work permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents may at any time and without indicating the purpose of the transfer make payments abroad, through an authorized bank, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Resident and nonresident travelers to for- eign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other countries of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 482 TOGO French Franc Area. Resident travelers to other coun- tries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the WAMU, they must declare to customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry3 or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000. Nonresident trav- elers may also freely take out any amount of letters of credit and traveler's checks drawn in their names abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses. All ex- ports to South Africa are prohibited. The Office Togolais des Phosphates has a monopoly over the export of phosphates, and the Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo has a monopoly over the export of cocoa, coffee, cotton, groundnuts, and certain other agricultural commodities. Exports of cereals are permitted, but licenses are generally granted only in years when the Technical Committee for Cereal Exports determines that there is a food grain sur- plus. The Technical Committee meets twice a year —at the beginning of March to make forecasts of the exportable surplus, and in early November (by November 10) to establish the actual export ceil- ings. The due date for payment for exports to for- eign countries, including the French Franc Area, may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, and the proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date; authorized diamond purchasing offices, however, may retain foreign currency proceeds in foreign cur- rency accounts with authorized banks in Togo. All export transactions, including those with the French Franc Area, must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000 and the domiciling bank is responsi- ble for ensuring effective repatriation of such re- ceipts through BCEAO. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles transactions with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations 3This amount is ad jus ted for (1) the amount of foreign cur- rency sold for CFA francs, and (2) any foreign currency acquired in Togo by (a) debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a Foreign Account in Foreign Currency, (b) the conversion of foreign cur- rency traveler's checks, etc., made out in the name of the traveler, and (c) any repurchases of foreign currency (permitted up to CFAF 175,000) with CFA francs resulting from the sale of foreign currency. Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surren- dered within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of for- eign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of coun- tries outside the French Franc Area. Residents bringing in foreign bank notes and foreign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital Capital movements between Togo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other countries of the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require ex- change control approval by the Minister of Economy and Finance and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange con- trol requirements that may be applicable) are main- tained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, and over the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement abroad. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government, and (2) shares that are identical with, or may be sub- stituted for, securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Togo has already been autho- rized. With the exception of controls relating to for- eign securities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member coun- tries of the WAMU, and the Operations Account countries. There also are special controls applicable to all countries other than Togo with respect to imports and exports of gold. All investments abroad by residents of Togo re- quire prior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance;4 beginning June 24, 1981 at least 75 percent of such investments must be financed by foreign borrowing. Foreign direct investments in including investments made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO 483 Togo5 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion during which he may request postponement of the projects. The total or partial liquidation of any inward direct investment or any outward invest- ment also requires prior declaration to the Minister of Economy and Finance. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are To- golese investments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments con- stitute investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not ex- ceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Econ- omy and Finance. The following are, however, ex- empt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior decla- ration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans taken up either by in- dustrial firms to finance operations abroad or by approved international merchanting houses to fi- nance imports or exports; and (4) in certain circum- stances, any other loans, provided that the out- standing amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any foreign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance; exempt from this requirement are loans constituting a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization by the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legisla- tion, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. In addition, certain enter- prises, in accordance with their importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted special privileges for a specified number of years relating to the maintenance of existing taxes and exemption from import duties. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. The Investment Law, applicable to both foreign and domestic capital, sets out the types of enter- 5Including those made by companies in Togo that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. prises that may be designated as "priority enter- prises/' provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special founding agreement by which they receive certain tax benefits. Firms that undertake to invest at least CFAF 3 billion may receive a guarantee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Fi- nance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) im- ports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both li- censed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1988 Administration of Control May 26. A law in respect of exchange control violation was promulgated. November 4. The Foreign Exchange Legal Com- mission was established. Imports and Import Payments March 1. Quotas on imports with the exception of a few selected goods, such as cement and steel, were removed. June 15. Only dealers legally established in Togo and possessing an authorization from the Minister of Commerce and Transportation may import used motor vehicles, used tires, and used replacement parts. June 30. Legislation was enacted abolishing the remaining import monopolies of the Societe Na- tionale de Commerce: (1) with effect from July 1 for certain types of sugar (representing about 66 per- cent of total sugar imports), certain types of rice (representing about 25 percent of total rice imports), milk, and alcoholic beverages; (2) with effect from August 1 for remaining sugar categories; and (3) with effect from December 31 for remaining rice categories, and cigarettes and tobacco products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 484 TOGO July 6. Imports were subjected to inspection by international agencies with respect to quality, quan- tity, price, and verification of the customs tariff posi- tion of the goods to be imported. Exports and Export Proceeds March 14. Export licenses were no longer required for locally manufactured goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TONGA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tonga is the Pa'anga (commonly referred to as the Tonga pa'anga), which has been pegged at par to the Australian dollar since Novem- ber 1976. The authorities do not buy or sell foreign exchange. A central bank is expected to commence operation in 1989. As a transitional arrangement, the Bank of Tonga quotes daily rates for 15 other currencies1 on the basis of their respective values against the Australian dollar, the intervention cur- rency. The spread between the Bank of Tonga's buying and selling rates is approximately 2 percent. Sales of foreign exchange are at a premium of ap- proximately 1.5 percent, and purchases are at a discount of approximately 0.5 percent. However, for export receipts, the Bank buys foreign exchange at the midpoint rate, upon submission of documen- tary evidence that the foreign exchange is derived from export sales. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On December 31, 1988, the buying and selling rates of the pa'anga for the U.S. dollar were T$1.1644 and T$1.1881, respectively, per US$1. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. However, the Bank of Tonga, on request, arranges forward cover for Australian dollars against a third currency (but not Australian dollars against pa'anga) in respect of export proceeds. Administration of Control Tonga's trade and payments system is relatively free of controls. Foreign exchange transactions are regulated by the Bank of Tonga and the Ministry of Finance. Exchange regulations require the timely surrender of export proceeds to the Bank of Tonga, but this is not rigidly enforced. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the curren- cies to be used in particular transactions. 1 Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Fiji dollars, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required only for motor vehi- cles, and import quotas are applied only to fresh eggs. The importation of certain items is restricted for cultural, health, safety, or environmental rea- sons. Tariffs, which apply to most private sector imports, are primarily for revenue purposes, and protective tariffs are levied on a few items, such as paint and wire fencing. Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be surrendered to the Bank of Tonga within 90 days of shipment, but these regulations are not rigidly enforced. There are no taxes or quantitative restrictions on exports, but co- conut derivatives and bananas may be exported commercially only through the Tonga Commodities Board. The Tonga Commodities Board must autho- rize the export of whole coconuts. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Tonga's system of exchange controls provides for specified limits on sales of foreign exchange for travel, education, and health purposes; such limits may be exceeded with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The Bank of Tonga has discretionary authority to approve foreign exchange sales for travel expenses up to T$l,000 in any 12 months on submission of valid sea or air tickets. Shipping and airline agencies may remit fares and freight earned in Tonga on production of copies of returns for- warded to their respective head offices. Payment for education and health purposes may be approved on submission of evidence of the intended use of for- eign exchange, and there is no fixed limit for such foreign exchange sales. Receipts from current invis- ibles are subject to the same treatment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Pro- ceeds, above). Capital The authorities maintain a liberal attitude toward foreign direct investment, which so far remains small. Foreign investors are required to apply for a license, with approval depending on the type of investment. Investors are permitted a wide range of activities, but activities that complement domestic 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 486 TONGA production, rather than competing with it, are gen- erally preferred. Under the Industrial Development Incentives Act, foreign investors involved in man- ufacturing are allowed duty-free imports of capital inputs, a five-year tax holiday, and repatriation of profits and capital. Acquisition of financial assets abroad by Tongan residents is, in principle, not permitted. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trin- idad and Tobago Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at TT$4.25 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are TT$4.24468 and TT$4.28719, respec- tively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. There is a limited forward exchange market, in which the Central Bank quotes forward selling rates for the major international currencies.2 The rates quoted to the commercial banks are for local trading, on a fixed future date, for one-, two-, or three-month periods. Forward transactions are permitted for ap- proved trade transactions only. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, acting under delegated authoritity of the Ministry of Finance. The exchange control system provides for compulsory surrender of foreign currency3'4 and for control over both cur- rent and capital transactions. All overseas payments and transfers require the approval of the exchange control authorities; payments to South Africa are prohibited. The Central Bank exercises direct con- trol over foreign exchange for imports of visible items. Persons wishing to import such items must apply to the Central Bank, which will authorize in advance the amount of foreign exchange that will be made available for the importation of the specified item. Approval authority with respect to payments for visible imports has been delegated to the Minis- try responsible for trade (Ministry of Industry, En- 1 Barbados dollars, Belize dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Eastern Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 3Under Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are considered foreign currencies. 4If the business of a trader, firm, or company involves frequent receipts and payments in foreign currencies, permission may be granted for the retention of a portion of the receipts in a Foreign Currency Account, subject to the requirement, inter alia, that periodic statements of credits and debits to the account be sub- mitted to the authorities. terprise, and Tourism). This Ministry also issues import and export licenses, if required. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resident banks to non- residents and local non-resident-controlled com- panies, are also subject to control. Foreign currency is not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago. Commercial banks can purchase for- eign currency notes from the public. The Central Bank in turn buys certain of these currencies from the commercial banks for repatriation to the respec- tive monetary authorities under bilateral arrange- ments. The Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago does not repatriate Trinidad and Tobago currency. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in U.S. dollars or in any other specified currency,5 except South African cur- rency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, to all countries may be made in U.S. dollars or in any other specified currency. Payments from all countries with which trade is allowed must be received in U.S. dollars or in any other specified currency. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Ex- ternal Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago. These accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Trinidad and Tobago that have been approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign curren- cies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of Trinidad and Tobago, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Ac- counts in U.S. dollars or any other foreign currency and may be transferred freely between residents of countries outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the exception that transfers from External Accounts 5Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and pounds sterling. 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 488 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO held by residents of the Caribbean Common Market (CARicoM)6 countries to any country outside Trin- idad and Tobago other than that of the holder's residence are conditional on the Central Bank being satisfied that the exchange control authorities of the holder's country of residence do not object. Blocked Accounts are normally credited with the balance of capital assets of persons who have emi- grated from Trinidad and Tobago. The use of bal- ances on Blocked Accounts is subject to authoriza- tion. Blocked funds may be reinvested in local securities with the permission of the exchange con- trol authorities. Income arising from Blocked Ac- counts (such as interest and rents) is freely remit- table, provided the tax liabilities are settled. Generally, funds held in Blocked Accounts are eligi- ble for remittance to nonresidents on an annual basis. Foreign Currency Accounts Foreign Currency Accounts denominated in for- eign currency may be maintained at local banks by (1) designated exporters who have earned foreign exchange equivalent to at least 80 percent of their import requirements. Twenty percent of the export proceeds are sold to the Central Bank through the commercial banks; and (2) to petroleum service supply companies who received payment from the foreign currency accounts of the oil companies. These accounts may be used to purchase goods and services for the oil companies. Holders of these ac- counts are required to submit periodically to the authorities statements of credits and debits to the account. Imports and Import Payments Annual foreign exchange sales for imports are guided by a foreign exchange budget for imports. Trade allocation certificates, expressed in domestic currency, are issued to each importer registered with the Central Bank. The certificates state the importer's annual allocation for each product group falling under the first two digits of the Customs Cooperative Council Nomenclature (CCCN) Tariff Code, and importers may select products under each tariff group, subject to licensing requirement where necessary. These certificates are used toward the purchase of foreign exchange for imports during the year. Under the foreign exchange budget for 1988, products are divided into four categories on 6The CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Ja- maica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. the basis of essentiality, and foreign exchange al- locations for each category are made as a specified proportion of the 1987 allocations. While most commodities may be imported under open general license arrangements, some imports are subject to the provisions of a "negative list." The list cites over 200 items that are subject to regulation by specific license and also identifies countries that are accorded special treatment. The main items that are subject to the negative list include some food items, cement, clothing, corrugated iron sheeting, cosmetics, coffee and cocoa beans, and completely assembled motor vehicles. Firearms, ammunition, and narcotics are either prohibited or rigidly con- trolled for security and health reasons. Imports of rice, oil, and fats are subject to state trading. All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Imports of meat, live animals, and plants are subject to specific regulation, as are imports of mining materials. Procedures for licensing imports from CARICOM countries were liberalized on September 1, 1986, and the administrative guide- lines for foreign exchange allocation in 1988 provided for imports from CARICOM countries that qualified under the rule of origin not to be debited against the foreign exchange allocation, provided that payments were effected in the currency of the CARICOM country. Certain food products are cov- ered by the Agricultural Marketing Protocol of the CARICOM Treaty. All other commodities from all sources may be imported under open general license. General im- port licenses for importing certain inputs for the manufacturing industry are issued in conjunction with duty-free licenses granted to local conces- sionaire manufacturers. For these inputs, a specific license is not required for shipments of items in the negative list, or for items that originate or are con- signed from sources from which all goods are sub- ject to import license. When specific import licenses are required, they must be obtained from the minis- try responsible for trade (Ministry of Industry, En- terprise, and Tourism) before orders are placed. Payments for all imports require exchange control approval. Trade with South Africa is prohibited, and all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Poland, Ro- mania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia are subject to specific licensing, irrespective of the negative list status of the import concerned. At present, trade with these countries may be settled in U.S. dollars. Imports from all other countries may be paid for in any currency in which the goods are satisfactorily ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 489 invoiced. Imports other than basic food items, drugs, books, newsprint, and raw materials are subject to stamp duties at the rate of 12 percent or 6 percent of the c.i.f. value. The customs duty rates on most goods range from 5 percent to 35 percent. The duty rates on consumer goods, such as perfumes, cosmetics, jewelry, clothing, and cotton and silk fabrics range between 30 percent to 50 percent, and on motor vehicles are 45 percent. Some foodstuffs, fertilizers, and certain raw materials are exempted from customs duties. Local enterprises producing import substitutes or export goods may be granted partial or total exemptions from the customs duty by the Minister of Industry and Enterprise on recommen- dation of the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC). Specified imports from non-CARicoM coun- tries are subject to a 15 percent surcharge. Stamp duties are levied on the c . i .f. value of imports at the rate of 10 percent for capital goods and 20 percent for other goods; basic foodstuffs, medicines, books, newsprint, and raw materials are exempted. Pur- chase taxes at rates ranging from 10 percent to 75 percent are levied on imported consumer goods. Certain domestically produced goods are also sub- ject to the tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require the spe- cific approval of the exchange control authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be sup- ported by appropriate documentary evidence. No restrictions are imposed on payments for current international transactions, except with respect to South Africa. Under authority delegated by the Central Bank, the authorized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange within prescribed limits for certain transactions in invisibles. If addi- tional amounts are needed, the specific approval of the authorities is required. For outward remittances of gifts and donations, individuals must obtain ap- proval from the Central Bank. The basic allowance for tourist travel is the equivalent of TT$2,500 a person a year; for business travel, TT$350 a day for a maximum of 30 days for one trip (for a one-day trip, TT$730); and for health care, TT$12,000 a year. An- nual allowances for education abroad are the equiv- alent of TT$8,000 for secondary schools, TT$12,000 for universities, and TT$1,200 for correspondence courses. Allowances of TT$700 once every two years are granted for warm clothing. If additional amounts are needed, the specific approval of the authorities is required. For remittances of gifts and donations, approval from the Central Bank is required. Residents and nonresidents may take out Trin- idad and Tobago currency notes up to the value of TT$200. Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may obtain part of their basic travel allowance in foreign currency notes up to a maximum of TT$1,200. Nonresidents visiting Trin- idad and Tobago may, on departure, take out for- eign currency notes up to the amount they brought in. Nonresidents leaving Trinidad and Tobago are allowed to reconvert Trinidad and Tobago dollar notes into foreign currency up to the equivalent of TT$1,200, upon showing evidence of having pre- viously sold foreign currency to authorized dealers. Sums in excess of TT$1,200 require the approval of the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods usually require an indi- vidual license. These include some foods tuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and To- bago, as well as specified products not produced locally. Exports of all other commodities are permit- ted by open general license. In addition, general licenses may be issued at the discretion of the minis- try responsible for trade (Ministry of Industry, En- terprise, and Tourism). Exporters to Guyana are advised to ensure that the Guyanese importers are in possession of appropriate approval documents issued by the Central Bank of Guyana attesting to the availability of foreign exchange to make the nec- essary settlements. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In prac- tice, the foreign-owned petroleum companies oper- ating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate all foreign exchange after providing for the equivalent of their local currency needs. These companies must sub- mit periodic documents of their exchange transac- tions to the authorities. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in for- eign currencies must be surrendered. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trinidad and Tobago currency notes up to the value of TT$200. Foreign currency notes may be brought in by both resident and nonresident travelers. Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago re- quire approval and generally are restricted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 490 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO However, repayment of commercial credits is per- mitted freely, and gifts to nonresidents and emigra- tion allowances are approved up to specified limits; furthermore, as a matter of policy, capital transfers to other CARICOM countries are facilitated. Legacies may be expatriated in full. However, the Central Bank reserves the right to phase remittances up to a maximum of four years. Certain international in- stitutions may be permitted to borrow in Trinidad and Tobago on a case-by-case basis. Securities expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dol- lars and held by nonresidents must be lodged with an authorized depository, 23 of which have been appointed. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities other than securities expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other in- vestments owned by nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above); however, approval is often given to residents to purchase such assets. All foreign investment, whether in cash or in kind, is normally eligible for repatriation, provided it has been registered with the Central Bank. Hence, when funds are received for invest- ment, local banks should authenticate the receipt of such funds from External Accounts. In the event of an appreciation in the value of the asset concerned, the remittance of any funds in excess of the original investment will normally be phased over a period of time, depending on the balance of payments situation. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to persons resident outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control au- thorities, provided that the full proceeds of sale are received in foreign currency. Foreign exchange is not normally provided for portfolio investment by residents in foreign securities, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official mar- ket rate of exchange or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested outside Trinidad and Tobago in similar securities. Nonresi- dents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discrimi- nate between nationals and foreigners in the forma- tion and operation of companies in the country. Foreigners are required, however, to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landholding) Ordinance in order to hold an interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Prospective foreign investors must obtain approval for their project from the exchange control authorities in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The Government has enacted basic incentive leg- islation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manufacturing and in import- substitution industries. Since 1973 these policies have been effected within the framework of a CAR- ICOM agreement on harmonization of fiscal incen- tives. Certain concessions may be granted to enter- prises declared to be approved enterprises. Concessions include temporary relief from import duties and taxes and other privileges. These are outlined in the Invesment Policy document issued by the Industrial Development Corporation. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant finance to nonresident individuals and firms and to non-resident-controlled local com- panies. Such companies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to supplement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. A commercial bank, as an authorized dealer, is allowed to hold an "open" asset or liability position in foreign exchange. Each com- mercial bank must maintain the monthly average of its net foreign exchange position within a specified quantitative ceiling. Gold Gold is defined by the Exchange Control Act of 1970 as gold coin and bullion. The regulations provide that, except with specific exemptions and permissions granted by the Minister of Finance: (1) one party to every transaction in gold between residents must be an authorized bank; (2) gold held by residents must be surrendered to an authorized bank; and (3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents are permitted in appropriate cases, however, to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numisma- tic purposes. Control on the import and export of gold is admin- istered by the ministry responsible for trade (Minis- try of Industry, Enterprise, and Tourism). Imports of gold jewelry are on open general license, but imports of gold other than jewelry are subject to specific import licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry, Enterprise, and Tourism; such licenses are not normally issued except to the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry, Enterprise, and Tourism; such licenses for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 491 gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the monetary authorities. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement August 17. The official exchange rate for the Trin- idad and Tobago dollar was adjusted to TT$4.25 = US$1. Imports and Import Payments January 2. The foreign exchange allocation system was modified. Trade allocation certificates, ex- pressed in domestic currency and stating the im- porter's annual allocation for each product group falling under the first two digits of the Customs Cooperative Council Nomenclature (CCCN) Tariff Code, were issued to each eligible importer who is registered with the Central Bank. Importers would be free to select products under each tariff group, subject to licensing requirement where necessary. January 2. The stamp duty on capital goods, plant machinery, and equipment was increased from 6 percent to 10 percent, and the stamp duty on all other goods (with the exception of basic food items, drugs, books, newsprint, and raw materials) was raised from 12 percent to 20 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tunisia is the Tunisian Dinar. The exchange value of the dinar is determined in accor- dance with a basket of currencies. The buying and selling rates for foreign currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Tunisia. On December 30,1988, the spot buying and selling rates of the dinar were D 0.14658 and D 0.14809, respectively, per F 1, and D 0.8940 and D 0.9029, respectively, per US$1. The buying and selling rates of authorized banks are identical to those of the Central Bank. Forward rates are set and published daily by the Central Bank. For both cash and loan transactions, importers and exporters are permitted to obtain forward exchange cover from the authorized banks before customs duties are assessed. The forward rates are calculated for periods of 1 to 8 months for the selling rates and for periods of up to 6 months for the buying rates. Selling rates for up to 12 months are quoted for hoteliers for services pro- vided to nonresidents. Travel agencies are also al- lowed to obtain forward exchange cover for their hotel activities. Currencies quoted forward are Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Ital- ian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Tunisia; some authority over payments for imports and invisibles is delegated to the autho- rized banks. Foreign trade control is administered by the Commerce Directorate of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, which determines, in con- sultation with the Central Bank, the Industry Direc- torate, and other concerned ministries, the imports and exports that are to be restricted or liberalized as well as the imports that are to be subject to quotas in accordance with the Government's overall program and the trade agreements with foreign countries. The Ministry of Industry and Commerce and the Central Bank issue import and export licenses. 1 Currencies quoted spot and at bank note rates are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U .A .E. dirhams, U.S. dollars, and European Currency Units (ECUs). Luxembourg francs, Qatar riyals, and CFA francs are quoted at bank note rates only; Algerian dinars are quoted spot only. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and foreign coun- tries are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank (see footnote 1) or in convertible Tunisian dinars through Foreign Accounts. Settle- ments between Tunisia and Morocco and certain settlements between Tunisia and Algeria may be effected through convertible accounts in the na- tional currencies concerned at the central banks. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Resident and Nonresident Accounts Special Accounts in Foreign Currency or Convertible Dinars may be opened by (1) physical persons of Tunisian nationality changing their normal resi- dence to Tunisia from abroad, physical or juridical persons of Tunisian nationality entitled to the ex- change amnesty provided under Law No. 86/83 of September 1,1986, and any other physical or juridi- cal persons of Tunisian nationality for their assets legitimately acquired abroad; (2) physical persons of foreign nationality residing in Tunisia; and (3) foreign juridical persons for their establishment located in Tunisia. No formalities are required for the opening of these accounts by foreigners; a decla- ration of holdings, however, is required for Tuni- sians. Funds legitimately acquired abroad, not from the export of goods or services from Tunisia, may be credited to these accounts. They may be debited for: (1) foreign exchange surrendered to the Central Bank; (2) foreign exchange remitted to the account holder to undertake foreign travel; (3) amounts credited to another special account in convertible dinars or currencies; and (4) any payments abroad (including those for the acquisition of movable or immovable tangible property, located abroad, of ownership rights abroad, or of foreign claims). Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars and Convert- ible Currencies may be opened freely by all nonresi- dents regardless of nationality. (Residents are also authorized to open similar accounts under special regulations.) These accounts may be credited freely with (1) receipts in convertible foreign currencies or the dinar proceeds from sales of convertible curren- cies to the Central Bank of Tunisia; bank notes must be declared to customs; (2) convertible foreign cur- rencies remitted to the account holder by a non- resident; (3) foreign currency purchased from the 492 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 493 Central Bank by debit of a Foreign Account in Con- vertible Dinars; (4) authorized payments by resi- dents in favor of the account holder; (5) interest on balances in these accounts and interest payable by the authorized intermediaries on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remunerative rates; (6) transfers from other Foreign Accounts; and (7) the proceeds from the cashing of checks, trav- eler's checks, or drafts expressed in convertible cur- rencies and made out by a nonresident to the order of the account holder. All other crediting requires prior authorization of the Central Bank, either direct or by delegation. These accounts may be debited freely for (1) payments of any kind in Tunisia (irre- spective of the country of residence of the payer); (2) transfers to other Foreign Accounts; (3) the pur- chase of any foreign currency from or sales of any foreign exchange to the Central Bank; and (4) trans- fers abroad or delivery of foreign currency to the account holder, to any other nonresident benefici- ary, or to residents with the status of permanent representatives or salaried employees of the ac- count holder. Internal Nonresident Accounts are used by individ- uals of foreign nationality staying temporarily in Tunisia and receiving income in dinars; these ac- counts may be opened freely, but balances may be used only in Tunisia. These accounts may be cred- ited with the nontransferable portion (usually 50 percent) of the income earned in Tunisia. Any residual balance may not be transferred abroad without authorization. Interest is paid at rates com- parable to those applied to resident accounts in dinars. Special Dinar Accounts can be freely opened by nonresident foreign enterprises holding contracts in Tunisia approved by the Central Bank of Tunisia. Such enterprises are authorized to open, for each contract, a single special account in dinars for de- posit of the portion of the contract price payable in dinars to cover their local expenses. Such accounts may also be credited with funds from a Foreign Account in Convertible Dinars, the dinar equivalent of foreign currency drawn on a Foreign Account in Convertible Foreign Currency, the dinar equivalent of any transfer in convertible foreign currency from abroad, and interest accruing on funds deposited in the account. The account may be freely debited for the enterprise's contract-related expenses in Tunisia. Any transfer operations from such accounts must be authorized by the Central Bank of Tunisia. Inter- est is paid at rates comparable to those applied to resident accounts in dinars. Suspense Accounts may be opened by all nonresi- dents regardless of nationality. They may be used for crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents and awaiting utilization. These proceeds may, upon general or specific approval, be used in Tunisia for specific purposes to be transferred abroad or trans- ferred to other nonresident accounts. Subject to certain conditions, Suspense Accounts may be deb- ited, without the prior authorization of the Central Bank, in respect of purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, portfolio management expenses in respect of certain securities, payments to the Tunisian Gov- ernment or public institutions, or payments of the expenses of managing securities deposited in a sus- pense file opened in the name of the account holder, and settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder or his family up to D 100 a person a week, provided that the total with- drawals in any calendar year from one or more ac- counts do not exceed D 2,000 a family. In addition, a Suspense Account holder traveling in Tunisia be- tween November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from such an account an amount equal to the for- eign exchange imported for the trip and surren- dered to the Central Bank of Tunisia, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder or his family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Physical persons of foreign nationality may transfer abroad assets that they hold if these did not exceed D 1,000 on December 31,1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975. Up to D 50 a month a person may be debited to assist the offspring or parents of the resident ac- count holder. Individuals or juridical persons of French nationality holding Suspense Accounts may transfer the funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. Individuals or juridical persons of Italian nationality holding Suspense Accounts may transfer the funds in their accounts on deposit as of August 31, 1986. These accounts do not pay interest. Capital Accounts may be opened in the name of a resident of any foreign country. The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian na- tionality or his spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global Capi- tal Accounts for their nonresident customers. Sub- ject to certain conditions, Capital Accounts may be credited, without prior approval of the Central Bank, with the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange, or of the contractual or advance redemp- tion, of Tunisian securities, the sales proceeds of real estate through an attorney at the Supreme Court (Cour de Cassation), or rights to real estate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 494 TUNISIA situated in Tunisia, and with funds from another Capital Account. Irrespective of the account holder's country of residence, Capital Accounts may be freely debited for living expenses in Tunisia of the account holder and his family, up to D 100 a person a week, provided that total withdrawals from one or more Capital Accounts in a calendar year do not exceed D 2,000 a family. In addition, a Capital Account holder traveling in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may withdraw from such an account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the Central Bank of Tunisia, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total withdrawals for the living expenses of the account holder or his family do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to certain conditions, for expenses connected with the management of Tuni- sian securities, the maintenance, repair, and insur- ance of real estate and all taxes, and for transfer to the credit of another Capital Account. Balances on Capital Accounts are freely transferable between nonresidents of foreign nationality, with the excep- tion of juridical persons governed by public law. Subject to certain conditions, they may also be deb- ited to assist the account holder's parents and off- spring residing in Tunisia at a maximum rate of D 50 a person a month. These accounts do not pay inter- est and cannot be overdrawn. Balances held by physical persons of foreign nationality and not ex- ceeding D 1,000 on December 31,1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975 are transferable abroad. Individuals and juridical persons of French nationality holding Capital Accounts may transfer the funds in their accounts regardless of the date of deposit. Individ- uals and juridical persons of Italian nationality hold- ing Capital Accounts may transfer the funds in their accounts on deposit as of August 31, 1986. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa, and imports of some items from all sources are pro- hibited. A system of import controls is applied un- der which there are different procedures for dif- ferent operators (manufacturers, traders, and state monopolies) and special procedures for specified categories of transactions (e.g., export firms, and imports without payment from official foreign exchange). Imports may be effected without restriction or are subject to quota. The relevant regime is prescribed by Annex I of the Notice to Importers and Exporters, published in the Official Gazette No. 75 of Novem- ber 27, 1981, as amended subsequently. Importation of liberalized products does not require prior autho- rization and is effected by an import certificate, ob- tained upon presentation of a commercial contract, domiciled with one or more authorized intermedi- aries. The import certificate procedure may be used under certain conditions by industrial enterprises that export 15 percent or more of their output for imports of prohibited products. These include raw materials and semifinished products used in their production; enterprises exporting less than 15 per- cent of their output may also use this procedure for imports not exceeding the value of their exports. The import certificate procedure may also be used by investment promoters of authorized or declared investments for normally prohibited imports of cap- ital goods that are required for their projects, pro- vided they are indicated in the authorization or dec- laration certificate by commercial representatives in Tunisia of the suppliers of these goods and by leas- ing companies. Importation of products prohibited or subject to quota requires an annual import authorization, an import license, or an import card issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and endorsed by the Central Bank of Tunisia. An "annual import authorization" is available to industrialists and agencies responsible for providing the country with certain staples or industrial products; approvals are not transferable between enterprises. Each indus- trialist must submit a detailed document, giving information not only on expected import require- ments for the following year and the actual con- sumption of imported or domestically produced in- puts in the previous year, but also on sales, production, employment, import prices, and the firm's financial position. Annual import authoriza- tions are given for a global limit, expressed in dinars; they are valid for one year with an automatic exten- sion of the portion unused on December 31 of that year for an additional one-year period. Importers may make changes among the products specified in their import authorizations, provided that such a change does not reduce their planned purchase of domestically produced inputs. Import licenses are valid for six months. In some cases this period may be reduced or extended by the competent authorities in accordance with import requirements. A subsection of the licensing system is in the form of "traders' quotas," applicable to some 35 commodity groups, with special emphasis on consumer durables. Quotas are allocated on a "points system," with the most important criteria relating to firm size (employment and turnover, the latter differentiating between sales from imports and those from domestically produced goods). Geographical location, the degree of specialization, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 495 and the age of the firm are also considered in the allocation process. Certain imports of raw materials, semifinished products, spare parts, and equipment, paid from sources outside Tunisia, may be effected by enter- prises for their own use up to a value of D 100,000. To meet urgent needs for their exclusive use, im- porters in particular sectors of economic activity (mainly, cottage craft industry and agriculture) may obtain "importer's cards" to cover goods up to a limit of D 1,000 a year for each importer. State-trading organizations are the exclusive im- porters of about one fourth of the total value of imports, some 50 percent of which are in the form of energy products. Among the important public- trading agencies are the Commerce Office (for sugar, coffee, tea), the Office des Cereales (grains), Ellouhoum (meat), and the Office National de 1'Huile (vegetable oil). In addition, certain food items, tobacco, and medical products are imported exclusively by other state agencies. The state- trading commissions meet periodically to decide on the appropriateness and timing of imports of spec- ified products. For items that are not on the free list, state-trading agencies are required to complete the same licensing formalities as those applicable to the private sector. Manufacturing industries producing exclusively for export and covered by Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 may import freely any goods required for their pro- duction process, subject only to customs declara- tion. In specified cases, imports destined for domes- tic investment projects are eligible for full or partial exemption from import duty. Importers must receive a customs code number as a prior condition for obtaining an import certifi- cate, an import authorization, an import license, or an importer's card. All import documents involving payments must be handled by one or more autho- rized banks. Foreign currency may be purchased from the Central Bank or a delegated commercial bank for all payments that have received general or specific prior authorization. Resident importers are authorized to buy forward foreign currencies re- quired for future settlement of their merchandise imports, for a maximum term of eight months, at rates established daily by the Central Bank. In addi- tion to customs duties, a number of import taxes are applied. Payments for Invisibles In principle, all payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank, for which proper documentation is required. These transactions in- clude: (1) various payments related to international trade (e.g., port services, warehousing, commis- sions, and brokerage); and (2) payments for process- ing, repair, assembly, royalties, patents and trade- marks, fines, and court expenses. The following transactions have been delegated to authorized in- termediaries: (1) payment of interest and amortiza- tion arising from authorized contractual obligations to nonresidents; (2) insurance premiums; (3) sub- scriptions; (4) dividends of firms quoted on the stock market; and (5) school fees and expenses. Approval is also given freely for remittance of divi- dends due to nonresidents. In addition, exporters holding balances on EFAC (Exportations-Fmis Accessoires) accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these up to fixed limits for expenditures abroad in connection with participation in international trade fairs, and to pay customs duties and various other expenses related to exports. Exporters, hotel owners, travel agencies, and other external service industries may use EFAC balances freely for ex- penses related to publicity abroad, and up to fixed limits for certain other expenses. Nonresident en- terprises producing for export within the frame- work of Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 may freely make payments abroad for their production activities; amounts in convertible dinars credited to the Busi- ness Travel Accounts of these enterprises may be freely transferred up to D 40,000 depending on the value of export sales. These enterprises are not sub- ject to restrictions applicable to payments for invis- ibles. They are, however, required to pay their for- eign currency expenses by debiting their foreign currency accounts or convertible dinar accounts. Transfers from the Business Travel Accounts not made over two consecutive years may be carried over, provided that the total of such transfers does not exceed D 10,000 in any one year. A business travel allocation may be authorized by the Central Bank for industrialists and businessmen whose professional activity requires travel abroad and who are unable to open EFAC accounts or busi- ness travel accounts based on Title 2 of Law No. 87-51. The annual allocation for each beneficiary is initially determined by the Central Bank at the time of approval, taking into account the applicant's import turnover. In the years thereafter, the annual amount of the allocation is determined by the autho- rized intermediary with which the authorization is domiciled, using the same criteria. Payments for certain other current invisibles are approved up to fixed limits. Residents traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allocation equivalent to D 200 a person (D 100 for children under 10 years of age). The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 496 TUNISIA allocation may be accumulated for two consecutive years. The annual settlement allowance for students is the equivalent of D 500 for all countries; the monthly foreign exchange allowance for educational expenses abroad is the equivalent of D 400 for stu- dents in Canada and the United States, D 300 for those in Western European countries, and D 240 for those in other countries. A foreign national em- ployed under contract may transfer up to 50 percent of his net wage or salary without limit if his family is not resident in Tunisia and subject to a maximum of D150 a month if his family lives in Tunisia.2 Foreign experts employed by the public sector may transfer their monthly salaries abroad up to the limits spec- ified in their contracts. Foreign salaried workers born in Tunisia may transfer 30 percent of their net basic salaries, up to D 80 a month. Regardless of nationality, residents traveling abroad by air or sea are subject to a travel tax of D 45 a trip. Nonresidents, diplomats, persons traveling under the Agence de Cooperation Technique, emi- grant workers, a man or woman residing in Tunisia whose spouse resides abroad, children living in Tunisia one or both of whose parents reside abroad, students, pilgrims to Mecca, and those traveling for medical reasons are exempted from the tax. The export of Tunisian dinar bank notes and coin is prohibited. Unless central bank permission is ob- tained, the reconversion of domestic bank notes by nonresident travelers is restricted to 30 percent of the amount of foreign currency previously sold, with a maximum of D 1,000 if the traveler's stay in Tunisia exceeds 24 hours; if it does not exceed 24 hours, there is no limitation on the reconversion. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Most exports are liberalized, but certain nonenergy exports (amounting to about 3 percent of the total in 1986) require export licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. The export of wine is the monopoly of the Office du Vin; the export of cereals, that of the Office des Cereales; and the export of olive oil, that of the Office National de 1'Huile. With the exceptions noted below, all export proceeds must be repatriated and surrendered, nor- mally within 10 days from the date payment is due. If no credit is extended, payment is due within 30 days from the date of shipment. Central bank ap- proval is not normally required for the extension of export credits of up to 180 days. Resident exporters 2There are special regulations for foreign nationals employed by nonresident manufacturing enterprises covered by Title 2 of Law No. 87-51. may sell forward for a maximum term of 6 months (12 months for hoteliers), through authorized inter- mediaries, foreign currencies representing the pro- ceeds from their merchandise exports. Exporters, hotel owners, travel agencies, and all providers of services abroad may arrange to credit part of their export proceeds to special EFAC ac- counts denominated in convertible dinars. For ex- porters the limits are 4 percent if export proceeds are repatriated more than 30 days after shipment of the merchandise, and 6 percent if repatriation oc- curs within 30 days following shipment. Hotel owners, travel agencies, and other external services industries may credit to such accounts up to 4 per- cent of their foreign exchange proceeds. Authorized intermediaries may grant surety bonds and perfor- mance bonds to resident exporters and to resident exporting enterprises eligible under Title 2 of Law No. 87-51. Resident manufacturing industries that produce exclusively for export and are approved under the terms of Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 may arrange to credit 4 percent of their repatriated con- vertible currency export proceeds to Business Travel Portfolios in Convertible Dinars. Under the provisions of Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 and Law No. 88-120, nonresident manufacturing enterprises and nonresident international trading companies (i.e., enterprises with at least 66 percent capital ownership by nonresidents and financed through the import of convertible currencies) pro- ducing exclusively for export are exempt from the requirement of repatriation and surrender of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons resident abroad and also all other income or pro- ceeds from invisibles received from foreign coun- tries. However, there are certain EFAC facilities for such proceeds or resources (see sections on Special Accounts on Foreign Currency or Convertible Dinars and Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) may be brought in freely; nonresident travelers wishing to re-export the equivalent of over D 500 must make a currency declaration upon entry. The import of Tunisian dinar bank notes and coin is prohibited. Capital Foreign investment in Tunisia may, in accordance with the sector involved, obtain the benefits pro- vided for by the Investment Code (Law No. 69-35); Law No. 86-85 of September 1, 1986, providing in- centives for investment in tourism; Law No. 87-51 of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA 497 August 2, 1987, establishing the Industrial Invest- ment Code; Law No. 88-110 of August 18, 1988, providing incentives for international trading com- panies; and Law No. 88-18 of August 24,1988, pro- mulgating the Investment Code. These benefits in- clude a number of tax facilities as well as a guarantee of the right to repatriate invested capital in foreign exchange and the net proceeds from its sale or liqui- dation, even if these exceed the initial foreign ex- change investment, plus the income from its capi- tal. The transfer of invested principal and current earnings is subject to authorization. However, com- panies listed on the stock exchange and resident industrial enterprises that produce solely for export may freely transfer dividends to nonresident stock- holders through an authorized intermediary. Fur- thermore, Title 2 of Law No. 87-51 and Law No. 88-110 provide for various special benefits for nonresident manufacturing enterprises and non- resident international trading companies, including an exemption from the repatriation requirement in respect of export proceeds. Law No. 85-108 of De- cember 6, 1985, concerning incentives for financial and banking establishments conducting business essentially with nonresidents, extended the field of activity of such institutions; and they are authorized to exchange cash and traveler's checks for their non- resident customers and to engage in banking and exchange operations with residents, in particular by providing foreign exchange financing for foreign trade operations, investing their own foreign ex- change resources in equities of resident enterprises, and accepting funds from residents that could be used to finance productive activities in Tunisia. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and have left Tunisia permanently are en- titled to transfer the following: 50 percent of their assets (with a minimum of D 1,750 and a maximum of D 3,500) for those who left Tunisia before Au- gust 20, 1970;3 D 4,000 for those who left between August 20,1970 and December 31,1973; D 5,000 for those who left between January 1,1974 and Decem- ber 31, 1974; D 10,000 for those who left after De- cember 31,1974; D 15,000 for those who left Tunisia after December 31, 1978, who are over 60 years of age, and are Tunisian nationals; and without limit for those of French nationality regardless of their date of departure from Tunisia. All capital transfers by residents and all loans to nonresidents require the approval of the Central Bank, except investment credits granted by resident banks to nonresident enterprises (Title 2 of Law No. 87-51) out of their external resources. 3Such persons may transfer D 1,750 if the total amount of their assets does not exceed D 3,500. Gold Five denominations of commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may acquire and hold gold in any form in Tunisia. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the import and export of monetary gold. Other imports of gold re- quire joint authorization by the Central Bank and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Only den- tists and specified cooperatives of industrial users are eligible to purchase gold from the Central Bank. The export of gold is prohibited. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments January 29. Administrative restrictions on imports of raw materials, spare parts, semifinished prod- ucts, and most capital goods were removed, with the exception of certain goods, most of which are produced by infant industries. Payment for Invisibles January 1. The annual allowance for transit travel was increased to D 200 and was allowed to be ac- cumulated for two consecutive years. June 15. Authorized banks were allowed to provide foreign exchange entitlements to civil ser- vants and other public sector employees for their official and education travel abroad, subject to cer- tain administrative rules. Capital August 15. The exchange rate guarantee scheme, which covered the risk of exchange rate fluctuations for service payments on loans channeled through the development institutions, expired. August 18. A law establishing the operating rules for international trade companies was issued. When more than two thirds of the equity of these com- panies is owned by nonresidents, the companies themselves would be considered as nonresidents. They would not be subject to the foreign exchange surrender requirement, but would have to finance their local expenditure from convertible dinar or foreign currency accounts. In conducting their in- ternational business, resident international trading companies with capital ownership of more than one half by residents would be allowed to offset their foreign exchange income and expenditure and bor- row in foreign exchange. September 23. The minimum capital requirement for resident trading companies was set at D 150,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkey is the Turkish Lira. The Turkish authorities do not observe margins in re- spect of exchange transactions, and the exchange rate is largely market-determined. The official daily exchange rate is established by the Central Bank through a fixing session at the end of the previous business day. The daily fixing, in which the Central Bank and authorized foreign exchange dealers par- ticipate, also determines the rate at which the Cen- tral Bank purchases foreign exchange from com- mercial banks honoring transfer requirements and sells foreign exchange to the rest of the public sec- tor; the Central Bank, however, makes no commit- ment to sell foreign exchange to the private sector at that rate. For transactions in excess of US$50,000, the rate is freely negotiable between authorized par- ties. The Central Bank has introduced an interbank market for foreign exchange in which it acts as a blind broker between parties and also intervenes on its own account. Commercial banks are also free to transact with each other outside this market at freely negotiated rates. The Central Bank closely monitors prevailing market rates and attempts to guide the real exchange rate through changes in the supply of or demand for foreign exchange. For transactions of less than US$50,000, authorized for- eign exchange dealers are required to purchase and sell foreign exchange at rates that differ from the official rate by not more than 0.5 percent for remit- tances, transfers, and checks, and 2 percent for bank notes. On December 30, 1988, the Central Bank's official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were LT 1,815.08 and LT 1,819.62 per US$1, respectively. On that date, the average transaction rate in the interbank market brokered by the Central Bank was LT 1,841.42 per US$1. The selling rate for the U.S. dollar in the free market on that date was LT 1,820.00 per US$1. A Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme (FERIS) designed to provide domestic borrowers with an exchange rate guarantee for approved for- eign borrowing is in operation. Foreign borrowing under the scheme is on-lent in Turkish liras at a domestic interest rate determined on an annual basis. The difference between the domestic interest rate charged on the foreign borrowing and any bank commission is credited to the scheme. The dif- ference between the lira cost at the time it is con- tracted and the lira cost of repayments is covered from resources of the scheme. Commercial banks can freely deal in forward transactions within the predetermined limits imposed by the Central Bank. Forward transactions must be related to imports and exports of goods and services with terms from 15 days to 6 months. Forward exchange rates are freely established between the banks and their customers in accordance with international prac- tices. Banks enter into swap transactions with the Central Bank with terms of quarterly periods up to 12 months; banks use this facility mostly to obtain Turkish lira. Administration of Control Exchange and trade controls are the responsibil- ity of the Prime Ministry, to which the Under- secretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade is at- tached. Administration of exchange controls has been delegated to the Central Bank, which regu- lates all matters related to foreign exchange opera- tions. All commercial banks have been authorized by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade to engage in foreign exchange operations on their own account, including allocating foreign ex- change for imports not subject to prior permit. In the case of imports subject to prior permit, autho- rized commercial banks directly allocate foreign ex- change and issue import licenses upon receiving the approved import permit from the Under- secretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. Export registration is carried out by trade organizations, according to instructions from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade; the Undersecretariat also issues export licenses but may delegate this authority to the relevant trade organizations. Prescription of Currency and Nonresident Accounts Settlements under bilateral payments agree- ments are made in U.S. dollars. Certain commercial transactions with Albania, Algeria, Bangladesh, Czechoslovakia, Iraq, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malta, Morocco, Poland, Ro- mania, Sudan, Tunisia, and the U.S.S.R., and with the other members of the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO) are made through special ac- counts denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements 498 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 499 with all other countries are made in convertible currencies. Nonresidents as well as residents may open accounts denominated in foreign exchange with authorized commercial banks. Such accounts are disposable at the discretion of the holders. Imports and Import Payments All goods are freely importable except those ex- plicitly prohibited or subject to prior permit. Only imports of narcotics, stereopten, weapons, foreign coins made of silver and other metals (excluding foreign coins made of gold), and ammunition are prohibited without a special permit from the au- thorities. Imports of other goods are divided into two categories. The first category, the importation of which is subject to licenses issued by the Under- secretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade, consists of 49 items, mainly raw materials, spare parts, inter- mediate goods and tools for industry, and electrical equipment. The second category consists of goods not subject to prior licensing; it includes a number of items that can enter the country only after pay- ment of a specific levy (in addition to customs du- ties) to certain extra budgetary funds ("funds list"). The magnitude of the levy varies between items, and their structure has been changed from time to time. The importation of all goods not included in ei- ther of the above lists is freely permitted with pay- ment of customs duties. However, imports of sold, used and reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor quality goods may be made only with special permission from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade; when such goods are needed for a project, permission may be given by the State Planning Organization. Imports from countries where foreign trade is nationalized may be carried out by public sector companies or foreign trade-incorporated companies. Importation from such countries by the individual companies re- quires permission from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade, and it is granted with respect to their exportation to such countries. All imports within the framework of international bids called by the public sector must receive prior autho- rization from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. All commercial imports require import licenses, which are valid for six months. The validity may be extended by an authorized commercial bank for up to 12 additional months and can be further extended by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. Import licenses are issued to registered im- porters, industrialists, state economic enterprises, and government departments. In the case of freely importable items, including those in the "funds list," no special permit is required for any autho- rized person to apply for an import license to any bank. The import license permits the necessary for- eign exchange payments to be made, and the clear- ance of goods from customs. Payments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documents, or goods (i.e., upon customs clearance), or by way of acceptance credits. Partial prepayments are autho- rized under certain conditions. Guarantee deposits, which must be made by the importer before the import license is issued, are refunded after the goods are cleared through customs and the foreign payment has been made; these deposits do not earn interest. The general guarantee deposit rate is 15 percent of the foreign exchange requested, which is applicable to imports by commercial importers.1 Imports for the Izmir International Fair, some imports of the public sector, importers who make use of their own foreign ex- change account to pay for imports, electrical energy, books and other publications, portions of imports paid with a foreign credit with more than a one-year term, imports of fuel oil, natural gas, wheat, sugar, coal, fertilizer, vegetable oils, medicine, x-ray pho- tographs, imports from the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, imports of specially equipped cars for the disabled, and imports covered by an incentive certificate for regions with a development priority are exempted from the guarantee deposit requirement. Regulations concerning imports without alloca- tion of foreign exchange by the banking system mainly affect imports of goods for personal or pro- fessional use by travelers domiciled in Turkey, and imports by Turkish workers employed abroad and maintaining foreign exchange accounts with the Central Bank. Customs duties range mostly up to 15 percent in the case of raw materials, between 10 percent and 30 percent for intermediate and semifinished prod- ucts, and between 30 percent and 40 percent for finished goods; higher rates apply to certain con- sumer goods considered luxuries. Imported goods are also subject to (1) a municipal tax of 15 percent of the applicable customs duty; (2) a stamp duty of 10 percent of the declared value; and (3) a quay duty of 5 percent on the sum of c . i .f. value, customs duty, municipal tax, and customs clearance expense. Im- ports of minerals are subject to a surcharge of 25 percent. 1PThis rate was raised to 15 percent on October 15,1988, but is scheduled to be reduced to 7 percent by June 1, 1989. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 500 TURKEY Payments for Invisibles Specific Central Bank authorization is required only for specified types of transactions; all other invisible transactions are handled by commercial banks within norms issued by the Central Bank. The following transactions are subject to specific licensing by the Central Bank: (1) revenue of foreign contractors rendering international tender in Tur- key; (2) preliminary expenses of Turkish contractors undertaking tender abroad; (3) transfers related to copyrights for scientific and artistic works (up to US$10,000 may be provided in advance by the Cen- tral Bank); (4) proceeds of foreign air transportation companies; (5) payments related to certain kinds of insurance; and (6) revenue of foreign consulates. The transfer of income related to foreign investment and the payment of interest on foreign credits are permitted freely within the terms of Foreign Capital Law No. 6224 and similar laws and regulations. Moreover, the institutions that are authorized to undertake foreign exchange transactions by the ministry in charge of the Undersecretariat of Trea- sury and Foreign Trade are allowed to sell foreign currency for tourism, commercial, and health pur- poses and for subscription fees. All resident Turkish nationals may travel abroad with a maximum of US$3,000 each without proof of exchange allocation by commercial banks. Banks are allowed to allocate up to US$1,500 a person a trip for tourist travel, or US$750 a person a trip for travelers under 18 years of age. Foreign nationals domiciled in Turkey may purchase from banks foreign ex- change for up to US$200 a trip. For business travel, the allowance is up to US$2,000 a person a trip. Special limits, as well as administrative norms, are in force for the purchase of foreign exchange for travel and other expenses related to medical treat- ment, study and other training, and attendance at conferences. Outbound travelers are subject to a tax equivalent to US$100, payable in Turkish liras, re- gardless of whether there are related purchases of foreign exchange; the tax is reduced by one half in the case of travelers 18 years of age or younger. Individuals engaged in border trade with the per- mission of the governor of the province concerned and immigrants and refugees traveling abroad are required to pay the tax in Turkish liras equivalent to US$25 and US$50, respectively. Exempted from payment of this tax are: (1) all foreign nationals; (2) participants in pilgrimages to Mecca for the first time; (3) Turkish workers employed abroad and their families; (4) crews of ships and planes, and truck drivers; (5) those living in border areas and who are leaving the country by Administrative Per- mits; (6) those going abroad for medical treatment and their escorts; (7) private students going abroad for education purposes; and (8) civil servants (and their families) sent abroad on permanent assignment. Travelers are permitted to take out up to the equivalent of US$1,000 in Turkish bank notes and coins; excess amounts are subject to approval. Non- residents may take out without restriction the un- spent portion of the foreign exchange that they brought in. Provided that the foreign exchange was declared at the time of entry, nonresident travelers can reconvert liras into foreign currency upon pre- sentation of a document showing that foreign ex- change had previously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey; documentary evidence is not re- quired for foreign exchange not exceeding US$100. Turkish workers employed abroad and persons domiciled abroad may freely take abroad with them foreign exchange in excess of US$3,000 or its equiv- alent, provided that such amounts were declared on arrival. Exports and Export Proceeds Commercial exports fall into the following catego- ries: (1) exports subject to permission of the Under- secretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade, including temporary exports; transit trade; re-exports; expor- tation of already imported goods in their original form; exports made to substitute already exported goods that could not be delivered to or had been rejected by their buyer and have been brought back or committed to be brought back or permitted for sale under other conditions since their return is not considered economical; forward sales; barter trade and related transactions; exports from free zones in or outside Turkey or from duty-free warehouses that are not subject to license or registration against convertible foreign exchange; and exports to be real- ized by the construction companies that are awarded construction, installation, and erection work abroad; (2) exports subject to the license is- sued by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and For- eign Trade or the authorized Professional Institu- tions, applicable to the following items (rice, fodder, crude vegetable oils, oil seeds, all live or dead hunt- ing animals or their meats, furs and embalmments, all kinds of hides and leathers —raw, semifinished or finished leathers, or sole-leathers—live cattle and sheep, opium poppy heads, licorice roots, and fer- tilizers except chemical fertilizers); (3) exports sub- ject to registration, including exports on consign- ment or on joint account (fresh fruits except citrus, fresh vegetables including onions and potatoes, wine except from EC countries, Turkish delight and candies, meat products, all kinds of fresh and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 501 frozen water products except crawfish, gift articles except carpets, kilims, and prayer rugs), exports on credit, exports related to bilateral agreements, and exports of certain products to specific countries that are determined by the Undersecretariat and re- quired to be registered as "Free Export Declara- tions"; (4) free exports (exports not based on any permission, license, or registration) requiring regis- tration as "Free Export Declarations"; and (5) exports subject to licensing by the Under- secretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade that are destined to go to Iraq and are intended to benefit from the Central Bank's export credit facility for Iraq. Barter trade is prohibited, except in permitted cases. Authorized public sector agencies and export companies with export earnings of at least US$50 million a calendar year may enter into barter trade. Exporters are required to sell their foreign ex- change receipts to the banks within a period of six months after export shipment. Exporters comply- ing with the surrender requirement within three months are entitled to retain 20 percent of their receipts. Commercial banks are required to sell to the Cen- tral Bank 25 percent of all foreign exchange they obtain from exports and invisibles transactions (in- cluding withdrawals from foreign exchange de- posits in exchange for Turkish liras) within five busi- ness days of the end of the month during which the banks received the foreign exchange. The export tax rebate system was phased out at the end of 1988 and has been replaced by two pro- grams of preferential credits for exporters. Export- ers whose shipment exceeds US$20,000 in value are eligible to receive postshipment credits from Turk- ish Eximbank for 20 percent of the value of their shipment for a term of 3 months and at an interest rate of 35 percent; this credit is in addition to any financing arranged by the exporter. Any company whose export volume in the previous year exceeded US$100 million is eligible to receive a credit in do- mestic currency from the Central Bank equivalent to 5 percent of the value of its exports over the previous 12 months; the credit is increased to compensate for depreciations in the exchange rate. The credit is repayable in 6 months if average exports fall below US$100 million. Firms exporting at least US$1 mil- lion of manufactured goods or US$250,000 worth of fruits, vegetables, and animal products are eligible to deduct 20 percent of the value of their exports from their taxable income. The export of 108 goods is encouraged by the payment of premiums from the Price Stabilization Fund at various amounts based on the physical quantities of the exported goods. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange accruing to residents for ser- vices rendered by them to nonresidents is required to be repatriated to Turkey, but there is no specific time limit for this obligation. Individuals residing in Turkey may accept foreign currency from nonresi- dents for transactions processed in Turkey. There are no limits on the importation of Turkish bank notes and coins. The importation of foreign currency is unrestricted. Capital Nonresident individuals and corporations wish- ing to invest in Turkey must import the required capital in the form of foreign exchange or in kind and must obtain a license from the Foreign Capital Department of the State Planning Organization. Consistent with the prevailing foreign investment policy, proposals in almost all sectors of business are approved, provided that up to 100 percent of foreign capital is brought in by foreign investors. Exempt from this requirement are certain invest- ments made in accordance with the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Invest- ments, or the Petroleum Law, or investments autho- rized to be made through the use of blocked funds by the Foreign Capital Department. Proceeds of sales and liquidation of foreign capital may be trans- ferred out of the country on the approval of the Foreign Capital Department, which should inform the Central Bank of the amount to be transferred. However, the Foreign Investment Directorate, as an administrative practice, evaluates the transfer pro- posals, with the aim of preventing evasion of laws and regulations. Resident individuals or corpora- tions may invest abroad up to the equivalent of US$3 million in cash or in kind with authorization from the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade; higher amounts must be approved by the Council of Ministers unless the investment is fi- nanced by foreign currency obtained outside Tur- key. Individuals or corporations authorized to invest and conduct commercial activities abroad must provide information about their activities to the Un- dersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade, in- cluding the submission of an annual report of ac- tivities at the end of the calendar year. Reasonable income from real estate and proceeds from real estate sales not exceeding the purchase value of related real estate in foreign exchange in- flow can be transferred abroad through the banks upon presentation of documents showing previous inflow equal to at least the initial property value. Income from real estate acquired without conver- sion of foreign exchange can be used in Turkey in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 502 TURKEY form of local currency but cannot be transferred abroad; proceeds from such real estate sales must be blocked at the Central Bank. Blocked funds are those accrued or accruing to nonresidents but not transferable under existing exchange control regula- tions. These funds may be used in Turkey for autho- rized investments, provided that 50 percent of the funds are to be brought in from abroad as foreign exchange, for living expenses of owners and rela- tives (up to certain ceilings), contributions to public organizations, etc. Commercial banks may open "exchange ac- counts" or "convertible Turkish lira accounts" for individuals residing in Turkey or abroad. Funds in such accounts may be freely disposed of by the holders, and interest rates and other conditions on the above accounts are freely negotiable between the parties. Commercial banks are free to conduct foreign exchange transactions according to their needs. In addition, banks are obligated to hold for- eign exchange liquidity against letters of credit com- mitments, acceptance credits, pre-export financing, and foreign exchange loans guaranteed by banks with a maturity of up to six months, as well as direct foreign exchange borrowing of the banks. The ratio of all foreign currency-denominated assets to the sum of foreign currency deposits plus foreign ex- change overdrafts and foreign exchange loans re- ceived from abroad is subject to an exchange rate risk ratio requirement (at the end of 1988, this ratio was between 0.90 and 1.1 for all banks). The mini- mum utilization ratio of foreign currency deposits is 50 percent —i.e., banks must extend 50 percent of foreign currency deposits as foreign currency- denominated loans to Turkish exporters. External borrowing by commercial banks up to one-year maturity is subject to Central Bank ap- proval; for more than one-year maturity, the ap- proval of the Undersecretariat of Treasury and For- eign Trade is required. Gold The Central Bank of Turkey is authorized to im- port gold into Turkey and carry out the purchases and sales of it to the public freely. The import and export of processed precious metals and stones and goods for commercial purposes are subject to reg- ulations within the export and import regime. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement August 8. The Central Bank's official exchange rate would be determined on the basis of rates set in a fixing session in which the Central Bank and com- mercial banks participate. The fixing rate would apply to sales of foreign exchange by the Central Bank to the public sector, sales by commercial banks meeting transfer requirements to the Central Bank, and to transactions of less than US$50,000 con- ducted between the banking sector and the non- bank public. The exchange rate applicable to trans- actions exceeding US$50,000 between authorized participants was made freely negotiable. September 14. Interbank markets for foreign ex- change, in which the Central Bank acts as a blind broker, were introduced. Imports and Import Payments January 1. Implementation of scheduled tariff re- ductions on imports from the EC was resumed after ten years with cuts of 10 percent and 5 percent on agreed lists of industrial products. January 16. The number of items subject to licens- ing was reduced from 110 to 33. The number of items subject to premium payments to the extra- budgetary funds was increased from 577 to 787. Rates of customs duty exceeding 50 percent were reduced to 50 percent or less, while numerous other rates were rearranged within this limit. February 4. The rate of import guarantee deposit was increased from 7 percent to 15 percent, to be effective until March 1. (The rate was reduced to 14 percent and 10 percent, during March and April, respectively, before returning to 7 percent after May 1.) July 23. The rate of the Support and Price Stabili- zation Fund was increased from 6 percent to 8 percent. October 5. The rates of import stamp duty and import surtax for the the Support and Price Stabili- zation Fund were raised from 6 percent and 8 percent, respectively, to a level of 10 percent for both. The advance import deposit rate was raised from 7 percent to 15 percent, and a schedule for gradually reducing import deposit rates to 7 percent in the first half of 1989 was announced. December 28. The number of items subject to li- cense was increased from 33 to 49. Exports and Export Proceeds February 4. Exporters were required to sell their foreign exchange receipts to the banks within a period of six months after export shipments. Ex- porters complying with the surrender requirement within three months are entitled to keep 20 percent of their receipts. March 1. Incentives for early surrender of export proceeds were introduced. Exporters became ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 503 entitled to tax rebates of 120 percent, 90 percent, or 50 percent, and to premiums payable by the Sup- port and Price Stabilization Fund, if at least 80 percent of foreign exchange receipts are sold within 30, 31-60, 61-90, and over 90 days, respec- tively, of export shipment. April 5. Tax rebate rates were to be reduced by 10 percent each month until totally eliminated by the end of the year. The tax rebates were replaced by two systems of subsidized credits for exporters: (1) a system of postshipment credits available through Turkish Eximbank and (2) a system of credits available to large export firms to be financed by the Central Bank. The new credit programs were gradually phased in over the course of the year. June 14. Exports of goods to Iraq financed by central bank credits were made subject to licensing by the Undersecretariat of the Treasury and Foreign Trade. July 26. The number of goods eligible for export premia was increased from 83 to 108. November 5. Firms that export at least US$1 million worth of manufactured goods or US$250,000 worth of fruits, vegetables, and animal products were made eligible to deduct 20 percent of their export proceeds from their taxable income. Capital February 9. The 15 percent transfer requirement on foreign exchange holdings of commercial banks was increased in stages to 25 percent by May 1, 1988. July 2. Foreign investors and investment funds were admitted to the Turkish Capital Market, and were allowed to buy and sell securities and become partners in Turkish companies. All investments are to take place through banks and intermediary companies. October 21. The reserve requirement ratio was set at 25 percent for foreign exchange sight deposits (5 percent of which was to be in Turkish liras) and at 20 percent for foreign exchange time deposits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uganda is the Uganda Shilling. The official exchange rate of the Uganda shilling is fixed against the U.S. dollar at a rate of U Sh 165 per US$1. The Bank of Uganda rarely deals in foreign currencies1 other than deutsche mark, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, pounds sterling, and U.S. dol- lars. On December 31, 1988, the official buying and selling rates were U Sh 162.36 and U Sh 168.96 respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates for the U.S. dollar in the international market. In its foreign exchange dealings, the Bank of Uganda charges a commission of 0.4 percent buy- ing and 0.6 percent selling. Authorized commercial banks in Uganda deal in all specified currencies2 at rates quoted by the Bank of Uganda or, for a cur- rency not quoted, at rates calculated according to prevailing cross rates. Authorized banks may, sub- ject to exchange control approval, deal forward with customers in sterling, U.S. dollars, and other cur- rencies, provided that there is an underlying ap- proved import or export contract. Authorized for- eign exchange dealers impose a service charge of not more than 0.5 percent. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange risk. Administration of Control The Bank of Uganda administers exchange con- trol on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Import and export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce. The Minister of Commerce has powers to prohibit imports and exports. Arrears are main- tained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency The Bank of Uganda holds reciprocal accounts with the central banks of Kenya and Tanzania, which are settled in U.S. dollars. Authorized pay- currencies are all currencies other than the Uganda shilling. 2Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faeroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all currencies of the former Sterling Area other than the Uganda shilling. ments, including payments for imports, by resi- dents of Uganda to residents of foreign countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of an External Ac- count in Uganda, or in any other currency that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from such countries may be obtained in Uganda shillings from an external account in Uganda or in any convertible currency. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain set- tlements with Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire are channeled through special accounts. Uganda main- tains bilateral trade and payments agreements with Algeria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, the German Democratic Republic, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Yugoslavia. External Accounts Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of foreign countries who are living in Uganda are des- ignated external accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments by residents of Uganda, with transfers from other external ac- counts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign exchange currency and gold by nonresi- dents of Uganda to authorized dealers. They may be debited freely for payments to nonresidents, for transfers to other external accounts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to blocked accounts main- tained with commercial banks. Subject to prior ap- proval, balances on blocked accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferable beginning five years from the date of purchase. Subject to individual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Convertible Currency Accounts Private Ugandan nationals or institutions with funds abroad may be authorized to operate Con- vertible Currency Accounts with commercial banks in Uganda. Intending operators of such accounts are required to disclose the sources of the funds and 504 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA 505 to put up a minimum of the equivalent of US$5,000 to open the account. These accounts can be freely debited, and other governing regulations are similar to those for the regime of External Accounts (see above). The minimum balance in each such account must be US$3,000, below which the account is liable to closure by the Bank of Uganda. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Most imports are controlled through the import licensing and foreign exchange allocation systems. A monthly foreign exchange budget is pre- pared by a Ministerial Committee on Foreign Ex- change Allocation. Foreign exchange allocations to various ministries and departments must be backed by documents showing approval of the Central Tender Board, an original budget authorization, and the signature of the Secretary of the Treasury or a duly designated officer. Once an importer has received a foreign exchange allocation, an import license is granted automatically. An approved for- eign exchange allocation must be purchased from the Bank of Uganda within 21 days by a commercial bank, and the importer must make a (interest bear- ing) margin deposit of 100 percent of the shilling value of the foreign exchange allocation with that bank. A modification of the above procedures is applica- ble to imports in sectors eligible for the Open Gen- eral License (OGL) system. Under this system, which was introduced in November 1987, foreign exchange is made freely available for imports of inputs to five key industries (soap, tobacco, bev- erages, textiles, and cement). In practice, because the demand for imports under the OGL system exceeds the foreign exchange made available for this purpose, eligible firms are granted approval only for a specific total value of imports during a six-month period. Requests to draw on these amounts are con- sidered in conjunction with the monthly foreign exchange budget formulation. The Central Bank may object to the granting of foreign exchange for such imports either because the quoted import price or the import volume is considered excessive. For- eign exchange for OGL imports is obtained from import support funds provided by the World Bank, the EC, and bilateral donors. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, and a commission of 0.5 percent of the license value is levied. In addition, the importer must prepay customs duties and sales taxes applica- ble to the prospective imports. The Ministry of Commerce also issues licenses for private sector imports financed from the importers' own foreign exchange resources without an official allocation. In these cases, the Ministry examines the application to ensure that price and quantity are reasonable. Import shipments are subject to inspection by inter- national agencies to ensure that the invoice price corresponds to the actual value. Anyone wishing to import goods valued in excess of US$20,000 is required to submit pro forma in- voices from three different suppliers, except in the case of repeater and proprietary imports. Normally, imports must be purchased directly from the coun- try of origin. Documentary evidence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be forwarded to the exchange control authorities within four months of the date of payment in the case of goods shipped by surface transportation, and within two months for goods brought into the country by air. Cash imports are permitted only on a c. & f. basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are subject to approval by the Committee on Invisible Imports of the Bank of Uganda, in the context of the monthly foreign ex- change budget. Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. For business travel a daily allowance of US$10Q-140 a person is granted, up to an annual limit of US$2,000 a person. The maximum yearly travel allowance for purposes other than business is US$500 a person. Expatriates working in Uganda may obtain allocations for travel outside Uganda at the time of their overseas leave, subject to the terms of the original contract. Foreign exchange is not normally released for nursery, primary, and second- ary education abroad. Allowances for postsecond- ary education abroad are based on estimates of tui- tion fees, board and lodging, and incidental expenses; foreign exchange is not normally provided when a comparable level of instruction is provided in Uganda. Facilities exist whereby sal- aried foreign nationals may remit to their country of origin up to one third of their gross monthly earn- ings to cover family maintenance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment that includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the contract. At this time, they may also remit a further US$5,000. Allowances for medi- cal and advertising expenses are considered on a case-by-case basis. Applications to remit profits, dividends, and interest payments are approved on a case-by-case basis. Payments by the private nonbank sector for all other invisible transactions and for certain capital transfers are subject to a combined limit specified below in the section on Capital. The export of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 506 UGANDA Uganda bank notes and coin by travelers is pro- hibited, except that travelers may take out U Sh 300. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. All exports require licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and may be restricted to ensure suffi- cient supplies for consumption in Uganda. The Uganda Tea Authority has a monopoly over the export of tea; the Coffee Marketing Board, over the export of coffee; and the Lint Marketing Board, over the export of raw cotton. Parastatal organizations are also heavily involved in the export of the follow- ing commodities: the Produce Marketing Board in the export of maize, beans, soybeans, sesame seeds, and peanuts; the Uganda Leather and Tan- ning Industry for hides and skins; and Uganda Hardware for timber. Export licenses for these prod- ucts, however, are also granted to other exporters, subject to determination by the relevant organiza- tion that price and quality are reasonable and do- mestic supplies are adequate. Export proceeds in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be collected within four months for goods shipped overseas and within two months for goods exported to neighboring countries or by air to any destination and, except for certain nontradi- tional agricultural exports, as described below, sold to an authorized bank for Uganda shillings. The authorized bank must in turn surrender these pro- ceeds to the Bank of Uganda within three business days; failure to do so entails payment of interest at a rate of 5 percent above the LIBOR or prime rate in the country where the funds are held. Coffee and cotton are subject to an export duty. Exporters of nontraditional agricultural products, such as grain, fresh fruits and vegetables, and pro- cessed agricultural products, may retain all or part of the foreign exchange proceeds. Exporters wish- ing to exercise this option are granted an import license at the time they receive an export license of equivalent (or greater) value, for use in conjunction with imports financed within 180 days of the receipt of the export license. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized bank within 48 hours. The import of Uganda bank notes and coin by travelers is prohibited, except that re- turning residents may bring in U Sh 300 a person. Travelers may freely bring in bank notes denomi- nated in specified currencies and foreign currency traveler's checks. Capital Capital transfers to all countries require individ- ual exchange control approval, and those to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Foreign assets must be deposited with an authorized depository, except that residents of Uganda may be granted exemption in respect of specified former Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11,1965. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may normally trans- fer their assets up to the equivalent of US$10,000 for each family unit from their declared assets. Amounts in excess of this are placed in a Blocked Account and invested in Government of Uganda securities. The principal is transferred after a period of five years; the accrued interest is also released but not remitted. Principal payments on nonguaranteed overseas borrowing by resident companies or individuals are transferable. There are no restrictions on non- guaranteed overseas borrowing by resident com- panies or individuals. Foreign investment is permit- ted in Uganda with or without government participation. Certain industries, such as public util- ities, transportation, telecommunications, ship- ping, and the marketing of key commodities, are wholly reserved for government ownership. In other key industries, such as textiles, brewing, ani- mal feed manufacture, the dairy industry, and tour- ism, the Government may pre-empt a certain per- centage of the ownership but does accept private investment from both domestic and foreign sources. To secure a guarantee of repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the in- vestment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Pro- tection) Act, 1964; in normal circumstances, ap- proved status is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production re- quires approval under the Licensing Act of 1969. All imports and exports of securities require ap- proval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, and the proceeds on resale are normally remittable also. A resident of Uganda may not send money abroad, for whatever purpose, without specific exchange control approval. Prior exchange control approval is required for loans or overdraft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a corporate body resident in Uganda that is controlled, directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside Uganda. Payments by the private nonbank sector for all other capital transfers and all invisible payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA 507 not specified above are freely permitted up to an aggregate maximum allowance of US$500 a person a year, provided there is adequate evidence to sup- port the application. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of U Sh 5 is legal tender but in practice does not circu- late. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. Only monetary authorities and authorized industrial and profes- sional users are allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The import of the following from all sources is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or sil- versmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the form of ingots, bars, or sheets; and gold coin. Im- port licenses for gold bullion, gold jewelry, and gold coin are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement July 1. The exchange rate for the Uganda shil- ling was devalued from U Sh 60 = US$1 to U Sh 150 = US$1. December 1. The exchange rate for the Uganda shilling was devalued from U Sh 150 = US$1 to U Sh 165 = US$1. Exports and Export Proceeds November 15. The foreign exchange surrender re- quirement for nontraditional agricultural exports, such as grain, fresh fruits, and vegetables and pro- cessed agricultural products, was modified to per- mit retention of all or part of the proceeds from such exports. Exporters wishing to exercise this option will be granted an import license at the time they receive an export license of equivalent (or greater) value, for use in conjunction with imports financed within 180 days of the receipt of the export license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES1 (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Arab Emirates is the U.A.E. Dirham, which is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 = SDR 1. The United Arab Emirates has established margins of 7.25 percent around the offi- cial rate; since November 1980, the U.A.E dirham has maintained an unchanged relationship with the U.S. dollar. The U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency, and the Central Bank publishes buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar only. On December 30, 1988, the official buying and selling rates were Dh 3.6690 and Dh 3.6730, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank sets no limits on the amount of U.S. dollars that it is prepared to buy from or sell to any commercial bank. Commercial banks are free to enter into foreign exchange trans- actions, including forward contracts related to com- mercial and financial transactions, at rates of their own choosing; the rates quoted by commercial banks for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of international quotations. There is a swap facility at the Central Bank, which the commercial banks may use to purchase dirhams spot and sell dirhams forward for periods of one week, one month, and three months. For each bank, maximum limits of US$20 million outstanding for one-month and three-month swaps and US$10 mil- lion outstanding for one-week swaps are in effect. There is also a limit of US$3 million in purchases a day for each bank for one-month and three-month swaps. Swap facilities are not available to banks having a short position in dirhams, except for the covering of forward transactions for commercial purposes. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The United Arab Emirates formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement on February 13, 1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United Arab Emirates, and there are no registration require- ments for inward or outward transfers. There is no regime of export and import licensing. 1The seven federated states of the United Arab Emirates are Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, Ajman, Umm al Qaiwain, Ras al Khaimah, and Fujairah. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Africa are prohibited. No other prescription of currency re- quirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa and Israel are pro- hibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for health or security reasons. Virtually all other commodities may be freely imported with- out an individual import permit, but only licensed parties can enter the import trade, and an importer can import only the commodities specified in his license. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for payments in respect of per- mitted imports. With the exception of specified items, imports into the United Arab Emirates are subject to a customs duty of 4 percent of the c.i.f. value. Imports originating from member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) are not subject to any customs duty. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to South Africa and Israel are prohibited. Virtually all commodities may be exported or re-exported freely and without an ex- port license to any destination other than South Africa and Israel. Each Emirate establishes its own export regula- tions. The proceeds from exports need not be re- patriated or surrendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely, with the exception of payments to South Africa and Israel, which are prohibited. There are no requirements governing receipts. Travelers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign or domestic bank notes. 508 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 509 Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or non- residents. Not less than 70 percent of corporate shares of financial institutions (excluding banks) must be held by nationals or organizations of the United Arab Emirates; the chairman and two thirds of the board of directors must also be nationals of the United Arab Emirates. Commercial banks oper- ating in the United Arab Emirates are prohibited from owning real estate except for the purpose of carrying on business and for accommodation. Un- der the United Arab Emirates Company Law (Law No. 8, 1984), at least 51 percent of the equity of companies, other than branches of foreign com- panies, must be held by nationals of the United Arab Emirates. Profits on foreign capital invested in the United Arab Emirates may be remitted freely. Banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are required to maintain special deposits with the Cen- tral Bank equal to 30 percent of their placements with or lending to nonresident banks in dirhams with a remaining life of one year or less. The profits of certain banks are subject to a fee levied by local authorities at an annual rate of 20 percent. Central Bank swap facilities are not made available to banks having a short position in dirhams, except for the covering of forward transactions for commercial purposes. Gold Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a permit, import and export gold in any form, but the import of gold for trade purposes is undertaken only by licensed parties. Gold bullion is exempt from import duty but jewelry is not. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Kingdom is the Pound Sterling. The authorities of the United Kingdom do not maintain fixed margins in respect of exchange transactions, and the exchange rate is determined largely by the balance of market forces. At times when the rate is rising or falling, the authorities may intervene in the foreign exchange market with a view to moderating excessive fluctuations and pre- serving orderly markets. On December 30,1988, the closing selling and buying rates for the U.S. dollar in foreign exchange markets in London as observed by the Bank of England were US$1.8075 and US$1.8085, respectively, per £ 1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transac- tions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free market rates of exchange. The United Kingdom formally accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the De- partment of Trade and Industry, but other depart- ments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. For import licensing purposes, countries outside the United Kingdom are divided into ten groups: the ACP Area;1 the CEFTA Area;2 the Community JThe ACP Area comprises Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Bu- rundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cote d'lvoire, Djibouti, Domin- ica, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Jamaica, Kenya, Kiribati, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Senegal, Seychelles, Si- erra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sudan, Suriname, Swazi- land, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuvalu, Area;3 the Dollar Area;4 the Far Eastern and West- ern Area;5 the Mediterranean Area;6 the OCT Area;7 the State Trading Area;8 the Residual Textile Area;9 and all other countries. Most imports are admitted under an open general import license without restriction, with the excep- tion of certain textile goods,10 and the following exceptions at the end of 1988: (1) from all countries, two commodities or groups of commodities;11 Uganda, Vanuatu, Western Samoa, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 2The CEFTA Area comprises Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Fin- land, France, the Federal Republic of Germany and Berlin (West), Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. 3The Community Area comprises all EC member states. 4The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pan- ama, the Philippines, the United States, and Venezuela. 5The Far Eastern and Western Area comprises Australia, Can- ada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States. 6The Mediterranean Area comprises Cyprus, Egypt, Israel, Lebanon, Malta, Morocco, Tunisia, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. 7The OCT Area comprises British Antarctic Territory, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Is- lands, the Falkland Islands and Dependencies, French Poly- nesia, French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Greenland, Mayotte, Montserrat, the Netherlands Antilles (Aruba, Bonaire, Curasao, St. Eustatius, St. Maarten (South), and Saba), New Caledonia and Dependencies, Pitcairn, St. Helena and Depen- dencies, St. Pierre and Miquelon, Turks and Caicos Islands, Wallis and Futuna Islands, Anguilla, and West Indies Associated States. 8The State Trading Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, the Peo- ple's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo- cratic Republic and Berlin (East), Hungary, Democratic Kam- puchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Viet Nam. 9The Residual Textile Area comprises all countries and territo- ries other than Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalem, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Re- public, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Hong Kong, India, Indo- nesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Jordan, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Pan- ama, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, the Syrian Arab Republic, Taiwan Province of China, Thailand, Uru- guay; and those comprising the ACP Area, the CEFTA Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Mediterranean Area, the OCT Area, and the State Trading Area. 10The restrictions of textiles do not apply to countries in the Community Area other than Portugal and Spain, Australia, Can- ada, New Zealand, and the United States. 11 The skins of certain rare animals, most primary whale prod- ucts, and a number of other wildlife products, including raw ivory, tortoiseshell, and plumage, cannot be imported without an import license issued by the appropriate department. Cocoa and cocoa products may be imported only if consignments are certified that bu f fer stock payments required under the interna- tional cocoa agreement of 1986 have been made. 510 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 511 (2) from the Dollar Area only, one group of com- modities; (3) from the Dollar Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Residual Textile Area, and the State Trading Area, one commodity; (4) from the German Democratic Republic, Berlin (East), and the U.S.S.R., one group of commodities; (5) from the State Trading Area only, seven commodities or groups of commodities; and (6) from South Africa only, two commodities or groups of commodities. Individual import licenses are required where goods cannot be imported under the authority of the open general import license; some items are subject to surveillance licensing, under which im- port licenses are issued freely on demand to appli- cants providing certain information. Most articles subject to specific import licensing can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open individual licenses, that is, without limit as to quan- tity or value. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to minimum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Im- ports of many other agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products are subject to European Commu- nities (EC) regulations. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. Ster- ling bank notes may be dispatched to nonresidents against payment in sterling or in any foreign cur- rency. For any type of travel, U.K. residents can obtain on demand from banks and travel agents such foreign exchange as they may require without limitation. The cost of accommodation, fares, etc., can be paid for without limit in the United Kingdom. Personal checks may be cashed abroad and credit cards may be used without restriction. Travelers may take out any amount in sterling or foreign cur- rency notes. Residents may retain unused travel exchange expressed in foreign currency after return to the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are free of export control, and there are no requirements affecting export proceeds.12 Under the Tender to Contract Facility of the Export Credit Guarantee Department, exporters bidding for major capital projects in Canadian dollars, deut- sche mark, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, or U.S. dol- lars when the U.K. element of the contract is for the equivalent of at least £ 10 million may obtain cover against exchange rate fluctuations between the sub- mission of their bid and the award of the contract. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in foreign currencies on account of invis- ibles may be retained or may be sold for sterling. British and other bank notes may be brought into the United Kingdom freely. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers by residents of the United Kingdom into the beneficial ownership of residents of other countries. All pro- ceeds from the realization, redemption, or maturity of sterling capital assets (including direct invest- ments) are remittable at the market rate of exchange. Residents of the United Kingdom who leave with the intention of residing abroad may transfer all their assets on departure from the United Kingdom. Repatriates who, having been resident in the United Kingdom, return to take up residence in any other country may transfer all their sterling assets abroad at the market rate of exchange. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made in the United Kingdom by nonresi- dents or abroad by residents.13 However, invest- ments involving the takeover of existing U.K. com- panies that are considered a vital part of U.K. industry may be subject to the provisions of the Fair Trading Act of 1973. The Government also has powers under the Industry Act of 1975 to prevent or undo undesirable foreign takeovers of important manufacturing undertakings. There are no restrictions on transactions in ster- ling or foreign currency securities, which may be exported or imported without formality. Warrants issued by registrars, company secretaries, and pay- ing agents in respect of interest, dividends, and capital payments on securities registered in the names of nonresidents may be dispatched abroad freely. Banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency business or convert them to sterling, subject to pru- dential guidelines issued by the Bank of England concerning the limitation of risks arising from their 12 Exports of certain commodities are controlled for reasons of national security, animal welfare, national heritage, and interna- tional agreements. 13There is a voluntary ban on new direct investment in South Africa by residents, which was announced on October 30,1986. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 512 UNITED KINGDOM foreign exchange exposure. Net spot liabilities in foreign currencies (i.e., the net amount of foreign currency resources funding sterling assets) form part of a bank's eligible liabilities that are subject to a 0.45 percent non-interest-bearing deposit require- ment with the Bank of England and may also be subject to calls for special deposits to be placed with the Bank. There is currently no special deposit call. Gold Gold bullion and gold coin are not subject to con- trol in the United Kingdom, other than imports of gold coins minted in or after 1961 and originating in South Africa. Gold sovereigns and Britannias, a new gold coin introduced in October 1987, are legal tender but do not circulate. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin that is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or that, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The export of gold in manufactured form over 50 years old and valued at £ 8,000 and over for each item or matching set of items also requires a license from the Department of Trade and Industry. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments (See Appendix for a summary of antidumping duties, countervailing charges, and import sur- veillance measures introduced or eliminated by the European Economic Community during 1988, page 561.) Capital February 8. The United Kingdom and Poland signed a ten-year mutual investment protection agreement, under which profit remittances, with a minimum of 20 percent in convertible currencies, will be guaranteed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United States is the U.S. Dollar. The U.S. authorities do not maintain mar- gins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the ex- change markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary to counter disorderly conditions in the exchange markets or when otherwise deemed appropriate. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The United States formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from December 10, 1946. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury administers li- censing programs involving direct or indirect finan- cial or commercial transactions with Cuba, Demo- cratic Kampuchea,1 the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam or their nationals,1 as well as the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, and the Noriega/ Solis regime of the Republic of Panama, as specified under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, the Libyan Sanctions Regulations, and the Panamanian Trans- actions Regulations. It also has administrative re- sponsibility for blocked accounts of the above coun- tries, as well as accounts of Estonia, the German Democratic Republic, Latvia, and Lithuania, blocked since World War II under the Foreign Funds Control Regulations.2 The Department of the Trea- sury also regulates certain trade and transportation- related activities involving Nicaragua under the Nicaragua Trade Control Regulations and the Is- lamic Republic of Iran under the Iranian Transac- tions Regulations, and administers restrictions on certain trade and investment activities involving South Africa under the South African Transactions !As cited in the relevant national regulations. 2Payments to the Islamic Republic of Iran, except for payments from Iranian assets blocked as of January 19, 1981, were autho- rized by general license on January 19,1981, pursuant to Execu- tive Orders and regulations issued thereunder. Iranian assets blocked as of January 19, 1981 have, with limited exceptions, been transferred to the Islamic Republic of Iran or to various escrow accounts as set forth in the January 19, 1981 agreements between the United States and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Regulations pursuant to the Comprehensive Anti- Apartheid Act of 1986. The Customs Service of the Treasury Department administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are frequently established or allocated by other agencies. The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements, chaired by the Department of Commerce, with representatives from other agen- cies, decides when to request consultation with countries to limit imports on the basis of the guidelines of the Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and bilateral restraint agreements. Import quotas on specified dairy products are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. Global quotas on sugar and prod- ucts containing sugar are set on an annual basis by the Secretary of Agriculture. For items subject to export control—other than munitions items—the Department of Commerce is, in general, the re- sponsible authority. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed under Treasury Department regulations for security reasons on transactions in- volving the authorities or nationals of Cuba, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Panama, the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, and the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya; those on direct trade and related trans- actions involving Nicaragua; those on loans and investments involving South Africa; and, to a very limited extent (see footnote 2), those affecting cer- tain assets of the Government of the Islamic Re- public of Iran, its agencies, instrumentalities, and controlled entities. However, certain payments to Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, and the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya related to authorized travel are permit- ted, as are certain payments in connection with travel to and in the United States by nationals of these countries. Limited remittances to the remit- ter's close relatives in Cuba and the Socialist Re- public of Viet Nam are also permitted. In the context of the restrictions on payments to the Noriega/Solis regime by U.S. persons and Panamanian juridical entities owned or controlled by U.S. persons, ad- ministrative fees and taxes paid in connection with basic business activities are authorized, while pay- ments of income taxes, export taxes, and rental fees remain prohibited. 513 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 514 UNITED STATES Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, and Nicaragua are prohibited under Treasury regulations, unless specifically autho- rized. In addition, importation is prohibited from South Africa of gold coins, uranium in the form of ore or oxide, coal, textiles, iron and steel, military articles, agricultural products, food, sugar, and any products grown, produced, manufactured, mar- keted or otherwise exported by parastatal organiza- tions of South Africa, pursuant to the Comprehen- sive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986. The same Act prohibits the importation of gold coins from the U.S.S.R. Import quotas are in effect for certain products, including cotton, certain cotton waste and prod- ucts, many dairy products, peanuts, sugar and cer- tain products containing sugar, and certain spe- cialty steel products. Quotas may be imposed by the President under specified conditions on certain types of meat. All quantitative import quotas, ex- cept those for peanuts, certain cotton products, but- ter, butter oil, certain other dairy products, and certain products containing sugar, are on a country- of-production basis. Certain dairy products that are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. The United States is a party to the MFA negoti- ated within the framework of the General Agree- ment on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). It maintains 30 bilateral textile agreements negotiated in accor- dance with the Arrangement's provisions, and 12 agreements with nonsignatories of the MFA. These agreements control trading partners' exports of textiles and apparel to the United States and provide for orderly expansion of trade while mini- mizing the disruption of the U.S. market for these products. Imports from both agreement and non- agreement countries are monitored along with do- mestic industry performance to determine if market disruption exists or is threatened. When necessary, consultations are requested to establish limitations. Imports of a limited number of manufactured products (i.e., steel, machine tools, and shakes and shingles) are also effectively restricted by bilateral agreements or by the multilateral procedures of GATT Article XIX designed to provide temporary relief to certain distressed industries. A Free Trade Area Agreement is in force with Israel, and a similar agreement was concluded with Canada and became effective on January 1, 1989. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) for developing countries has been in operation in the United States since January 1976 and is scheduled to continue through July 4,1993. Under a procedure referred to as "product graduation," eligibility for duty-free treatment can be withdrawn for a particu- lar product in which a beneficiary country has be- come competitive. Cumulative treatment under the GSP scheme is extended to beneficiary members of the Andean Group, the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN), and the Caribbean Com- mon Market (CARICOM); cumulation allows two or more member countries of an eligible association to contribute jointly to the requirement that at least 35 percent of the direct cost of producing a given product should originate in the beneficiary country. Exempted from competitive needs limits is a cate- gory of countries designated as "least-developed" beneficiaries; currently, 32 countries are thus desig- nated.3 During the 13 years ended in December 1988, duty-free imports by the United States under the scheme increased from US$3.2 billion to US$18.4 billion. Under the Caribbean Basin Eco- nomic Recovery Act, 22 countries and entities4 have been designated to receive preferential tariff treat- ment on specified imports for the period through September 30, 1995. Exports and Export Proceeds Munitions may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Munitions Control in the Department of State. The Department of Commerce administers control directly on exports of crime con- trol and detection equipment, as well as instru- ments and related technical data, to all countries except other members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. The Department of Commerce adminis- ters controls directly on exports of other goods from the United States and on re-exports of goods of U.S. origin from any area. (The Treasury Department administers controls on exports to Cuba, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, and the Socialist Republic of Viet 3Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Bu- rundi, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea- Bissau, Haiti, Lesotho, Malawi, Maldives, Mali, Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Western Samoa, and Yemen Arab Republic. 4Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Brit- ish Virgin Islands, Costa Rica, Dominica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Monserrat, Netherlands Antilles, Panama, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 515 Nam, of goods of foreign origin by foreign firms that are owned or controlled by U.S. nationals.) All exports from the United States to Cuba, Dem- ocratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, and Nicaragua (with the exception of general publica- tions, certain publicly available technical data and educational materials, personal baggage, and simi- lar items) are prohibited unless individually li- censed by the Department of Commerce and/or the Department of the Treasury. Exports of crude oil and petroleum products and materials and technol- ogy connected with nuclear power to South Africa are also prohibited, as well as exports of computer technology and items on the U.S. munitions list to specified South African agencies. While there are no trade prohibitions with respect to Panama, goods purchased in the United States for export to the Noriega/Solis regime in Panama are subject to blocking as property in which the regime has an interest. Exports to all other countries, except Can- ada, of designated strategic materials and equip- ment require validated licenses from the Depart- ment of Commerce. Persons subject to U.S. jurisdiction require a Trea- sury Department license to participate in transac- tions in strategic goods involving certain socialist countries regardless of origin, unless the transac- tion is licensed by another member of the Coordi- nating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls (COCOM). This program is administered pursuant to the Transaction Control Regulation. For many commodities, when exported to countries other than Afghanistan, member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Lao People's Democratic Re- public, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jam- ahiriya, Nicaragua, and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, distribution licenses may be obtained to cover multiple shipments. The licensing require- ments applicable to Yugoslavia are less restrictive than those applicable to other Eastern European countries. Under the Export Administration Act of 1979, which was amended in 1985, the President can sus- pend the export of nonagricultural goods for rea- sons of national security, foreign policy, or short supply in the domestic economy, although efforts are made to minimize the use of such authority. Export suspension of agricultural commodities may not be imposed for reasons of short supply, foreign policy, or national security unless there exists a di- rect security threat. For agricultural commodities, such as wheat, flour, corn, sorghum, rice, soybeans and soybean products, cotton, and several others, exporting companies are required to participate in a reporting system that is designed to improve mar- ket information and to allow for more orderly ex- porting. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, except for payments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jam- ahiriya, the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, and certain payments relating to Nicaragua, the Noriega/Solis regime of Panama, and South Africa.5 U.S. residents are allowed to remit up to US$500 a quarter to close relatives in Cuba and US$300 a quarter to close relatives in the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. In addition, remittances of up to US$500 to Cuba and US$750 to the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam are allowed to aid in a relative's emigration from those countries. Receipts of funds from Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam are generally prohibited, as are certain types of payments from the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Certain transactions in connection with authorized travel in these countries are permitted. Receipt of funds from Nicaragua is prohibited to the extent that they relate to unauthorized transactions. Individuals leaving or entering the United States with more than US$10,000 in domestic or foreign currency, traveler's checks, money orders, or bearer-form negotiable securities must declare these to customs at the point of exit or entry. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by resi- dents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. In addition, inward and outward direct or portfolio investment is generally free of any other form of approval requirement. Investments involv- ing ownership interest in banks are subject to 5Certain payments and transfers to the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, its instrumentalities, and controlled entities involving stand-by letters of credit, performance bonds, and similar obligations with the Islamic Republic of Iran con- tracted prior to January 19, 1981 are subject to restrictions. Pay- ments and transfers of any kind to the Noriega/Solis regime of Panama by U.S. persons and by Panamanian juridical entities owned or controlled by U.S. persons are prohibited with certain exceptions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 516 UNITED STATES federal and state banking regulations. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain trans- actions with, or involving Cuba, Democratic Kam- puchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Pan- ama, the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, and, to a lesser extent, Nicaragua (see footnote 5 concerning the Islamic Republic of Iran). New investments by U.S. nationals in South Africa are prohibited, sub- ject to limited exceptions. The Johnson Act, 18 U.S.C. 955, prohibits, with certain exceptions, persons within the United States from dealing in financial obligations or extending loans to foreign governments that have defaulted on payments of their obligations to the United States Government. The Act does not apply to those for- eign governments that are members of both the IMF and the World Bank. In addition, there are certain reporting requirements for travelers entering or leaving the United States when they are carrying more than US$10,000 in cash or negotiable instru- ments (as well as corresponding reporting require- ments for shipment of currency or bearer assets through the mails). In addition, ownership of U.S. agricultural land by foreign nationals or by U.S. corporations in which foreign owners have a signifi- cant interest (at least 10 percent) or substantial con- trol must be reported to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Certain states in the United States im- pose varying restrictions on purchases of land within their borders by foreign nationals. Member banks are discouraged by the Federal Reserve Board from soliciting or encouraging place- ment of deposits by U.S. residents at their foreign branches, unless such deposits are placed to serve a definite, necessary purpose outside the United States. The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual cur- rencies, are not subject to limitations of a quantita- tive nature, but banks are expected to follow normal banking practices and maintain prudent positions. U.S. agencies and branches of foreign banks, as well as domestic banks, are subject to reserve re- quirements by the Federal Reserve system. Loans and extension of credit to or acceptance of deposits from the South African Government or its entities are prohibited; trade credits are exempted. Beginning December 3, 1981, U.S.-chartered de- pository institutions, U.S. offices of Edge Act and Agreement Corporations,6 and U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks may establish interna- tional banking facilities (IBFs) in the United States. 6These are defined as domestically chartered corporations au- thorized to engage in international banking and financial operations. IBFs may accept deposits only from foreign resi- dents (including foreign offices of domestic banks), from other IBFs, or from the institution establishing the IBF. Such funds are exempt from reserve re- quirements of Regulation D. For nonbank foreign residents, the minimum maturity or notice require- ment is two business days, and the minimum trans- action amount is US$100,000. Funds raised by an IBF may be used only to extend credit to foreign residents (including foreign offices of domestic banks), to other IBFs, or to the entity establishing the IBF. Credit may be extended to nonbank foreign residents only if the proceeds are used to finance operations of the borrower or its affiliates outside the United States. Advances from an IBF to its es- tablishing entity in the United States are subject to Eurocurrency reserve requirements in the same manner as advances to the establishing entity from the entity's foreign offices. A number of individual states (but not the Federal Government) have granted favorable tax treatment under state or local law to IBF operations. In addition, federal legislation was enacted to exempt deposits at IBFs from Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance coverage and assessments. Gold U.S. citizens or residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, except for certain gold transactions (e.g., imports or exports) involving Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the So- cialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Nicaragua, and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. Gold and interests in gold held or acquired by the Noriega/ Solis regime of Panama in the United States are subject to blocking as property in which the regime has an interest. Imports of South African Kruger- rand and other South African gold coins, and gold coins minted in the U.S.S.R. are prohibited under the Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986, as are imports of gold bullion marketed by the Reserve Bank of South Africa. Commercial banks may deal in gold bullion and gold coins, with the same excep- tions. Treasury licensing for importers, exporters, producers, refiners, and processors of gold is not required, with the same country exceptions. Pro- ducers of gold may sell their output in the free market, with the same country exceptions. Gold, but not counterfeit gold coins, may be freely im- ported, except from the countries mentioned above. U.S. gold coins are legal tender at their face value. Commercial imports of gold jewelry, except gold jewelry fashioned from U.S.S.R. or South African gold coins, are free of quantitative restriction but are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 527 subject to import duty at a rate of approximately 12 percent. There is no duty on gold ore, bullion, or coin. All forms of gold must be declared at the point of entry into the United States. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments January 1. A four-year agreement between the United States and the People's Republic of China, limiting the growth of U.S. imports of selected Chi- nese textiles and clothing to 3 percent a year, took effect. January 1. Under the existing U.S.-Mexico bilat- eral steel accord, the U.S. quota on imports of se- lected steel products (sheet, strip rods, pipes, tubes, wire) from Mexico was adjusted upward by 12.4 percent. January 2. The United States and Canada signed a Free Trade Area Agreement (FTA) aimed, inter alia, at elimination of all bilateral tariffs within ten years and creation of a dispute settlement mechanism. The FTA became effective on January 1, 1989. January 5. The United States reached a four-year bilateral agreement with Mexico under which the growth of U.S. imports of selected Mexican textiles and apparel would be limited to 6 percent a year. January 7. The U.S. Commerce Department reached agreement with Canadian potash pro- ducers whereby the latter undertook to adjust sale prices of their exports to the United States to avoid imposition of antidumping duties. January 29. The removal, effective January 1,1989, of Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan Province of China from the Generalized System of Preferences was announced. January 30. Antidumping duties were imposed on imports of color picture tubes from Canada, Japan, the Republic of Korea, and Singapore. March 8. The United States International Trade Commission (USITC) determined that imports of stainless steel butt-weld pipe fittings from Japan were causing material injury to the domestic indus- try due to dumping. Earlier, the Commerce Depart- ment had estimated dumping margins ranging from zero to 65.08 percent. Consequently, anti- dumping duties were assessed. March 11. Duty-free treatment for Panamanian products provided under the GSP and the Carib- bean Basin Initiative (CBI) was suspended. April 1. A four-year agreement between the United States and Brazil governing U.S. imports of Brazilian textiles and clothing took effect. April 8. Executive Order imposing financial sanc- tions against the Noriega/Solis regime in Panama was issued. All Panamanian government assets in the United States were blocked. All payments or transfers from the United States or by U.S. persons and U.S.-owned or -controlled Panamanian juridi- cal entities in Panama to the regime were pro- hibited, including payments of import duties and related fees necessary to facilitate entry of U.S. ex- ports to Panama. May 20. A four-year agreement between the United States and the Dominican Republic estab- lished increased quota levels for imports of gar- ments from the Dominican Republic. May 26. Mexico and the United States agreed to extend until April 1991 their bilateral understand- ing on subsidies and compensatory duties. Under the 1985 agreement, U.S. firms must demonstrate material injury or the likelihood of injury to domes- tic industry in order to secure favorable judgments against Mexican exporters. In return, the Mexican Government agreed to eliminate certain subsidies for export industries. May 31. Antidumping duties were imposed on imports of small- to medium-capacity internal com- bustion forklift trucks from Japan following a final injury determination by the USITC; earlier, the Commerce Department had estimated dumping margins at 56.81 percent. June 16. The USITC ruled that butadiene acrylonitrile copolymer synthetic rubber imports from Japan were being sold at less than fair market value and were injuring domestic industry. Earlier, the Commerce Department had estimated the dumping margin at 146.6 percent; consequently, antidumping duties were assessed. July 1. A three-year agreement between the United States and Turkey governing U.S. imports of selected Turkish textiles and clothing took effect. July 1. Bahrain, Bermuda, Brunei Darussalam, and Nauru were excluded from the Generalized System of Preferences. July 3. Most-favored-nation provisions of the trade agreement with Romania were suspended. July 22. The global quotas on sugar imports were increased. July 26. Antidumping duties were imposed on imports of brass sheet and strip from Japan and the Netherlands following a final injury determination by the USITC. Weighted average dumping margins calculated earlier by the Commerce Department were estimated at 13.3 percent to 57.98 percent for Japan and 16.99 percent for the Netherlands. August 1. The production and importation of chlorofluorocarbons were limited under a final reg- ulation issued by the Environmental Protection Agency. Issuance of this rule, which will take effect ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 518 UNITED STATES in July 1989, fulfilled the U.S. commitment to pro- tect the ozone layer under the Montreal Protocol. August 5. Countervailing and antidumping du- ties were imposed on imports of electrical conductor aluminum redraw rods from Venezuela following a final injury determination by the USITC; earlier, the Commerce Department estimated a subsidy rate of 38.4 percent and a dumping margin of 5.8 percent. August 9. Antidumping duties were imposed on imports of granular polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) resin from Japan following a final injury determina- tion by the USITC; earlier, the Commerce Depart- ment had estimated dumping margins at between 51.45 and 103.0 percent. August 22. The Treasury Department allowed ex- ceptions to sanctions against Panama to permit the payment of Panamanian import duties and port fees facilitating U.S. exports to Panama. August 23. The Omnibus Trade and Competitive- ness Act became law. This legislation is broadly aimed at opening foreign markets to U.S. goods and services and improving the competitiveness of U.S. firms. August 23. A three-year ban on the sale in the United States of goods manufactured by Toshiba Machine Company of Japan and Kunsberg Trading Company of Norway was imposed as part of the provision of the Omnibus Trade and Competitive- ness Act due to the firms' sale of advanced milling machinery to the U.S.S.R. (in contravention of CO- COM rules). September 28. President Reagan signed legislation implementing the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agree- ment (HR 5090). October 12. Congress passed the Imported Vehicle Safety Compliance Act, which restricted importa- tion of motor vehicles that fail to comply with U.S. federal safety standards. October 30. Sanctions in the form of 100 percent tariffs on US$39 million of imports from Brazil were imposed in retaliation for alleged lack of patent pro- tection by Brazil. October 31. The intention to accede to the Harmo- nized Tariff Schedule on January 1, 1989 was announced. November 1. The United States and Jamaica ex- tended and expanded a bilateral agreement govern- ing U.S. imports of textiles and clothing. December 6. It was announced that tariff protec- tion (originally imposed 6/7/86) for red cedar shakes and shingles would be continued for an additional 2l/2 years; tariff levels were set at 20 percent for the first year (compared with 35 percent previously), 10 percent for the second year and 5 percent for the last 6 months of the protection period. December 21. The trade agreement with the Peo- ple's Republic of China, which provides for most- favored-nation status for the People's Republic of China (53 FR 51217), was renewed. December 28. The state of emergency against the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (53 FR 52971) was extended. December 29. Mexico was reinstated as eligible to export beef, mutton, pork, and goat products to the United States. (Mexico had been removed from the list of eligible countries in February 1984 because its residue testing and species verification programs did not meet provisions of United States federal inspection law.) Exports and Export Proceeds March 9. The lifting of sanctions on sales of new high technology to the People's Republic of China was announced. March 10. The Commerce Department removed license controls on exports of certain jig grinders (52 FR 46634 and 52 FR 47368). July 5. The United States and Japan reached an accord that will phase out Japan's import quotas on beef within three years, and on oranges and orange juice within four years. August 12. The United States and Japan reached an agreement on Japan's import quotas on 11 categories of processed food products. Quotas on 7 categories will be eliminated by April 1, 1990. For the other 4 categories, Japan will provide increased access or compensation. September 15. Controls on radio relay communica- tions equipment were revised by the Commerce Department in order to implement COCOM agree- ments. In addition, equipment for use with licensed civilian fiber optic communications systems may now be exported to the People's Republic of China at the discretion of COCOM member countries. October 1. The United States and the U.S.S.R. agreed to an extension of the bilateral long-term grain pact through 1990. Under the agreement, the U.S.S.R. agreed to purchase at least four million tons each of wheat and corn annually and, addi- tionally, one million tons of either wheat, corn, soy- beans and soybean meal, or a combination thereof. October 27. The Commerce Department modified the Export Administration Regulation provisions dealing with computer exports under distribution licenses (53 FR 43427). November 1. The Export Administration Regu- lation was amended. Exporters must now file a consignee/purchaser statement, international ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 519 import certificate, or foreign import certificate with license applications for commodities removed from eligibility for special licenses (53 FR 44002). November 15. The Commerce Department eased export controls for shipments to Finland (53 FR 45899). The requirement for specific U.S. re-export reauthorization for re-exports from Finland to the People's Republic of China of certain commodities was removed. In addition, the distribution license procedure to authorize exports of computers with a processing data rate of up to 1,000 megabytes per second was amended. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan New Peso. Uruguay follows a floating exchange rate pol- icy under which the exchange rate of the Uruguayan new peso is determined by market forces, although the Central Bank reserves the right, in principle, to intervene for the purpose of preventing disorderly conditions in the exchange market. Buying and sell- ing interbank rates for the U.S. dollar, the inter- vention currency, on December 30, 1988 were NUr$450.0 and NUr$451.0, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on U.S. dollar rates in exchange markets abroad. A tax of 1.5 percent is levied on sales of foreign exchange in both the spot and forward exchange markets, if a transaction is settled in Uruguayan new pesos; the tax rate is 0.05 percent for sales of foreign exchange through interbank operations. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the com- mercial banking sector. Export proceeds are required to be negotiated in the banking system. (The term "negotiate" means that export proceeds may be converted into other currencies or used to pay off obligations or generate other assets.) There are no limits on the amount of foreign exchange that the Central Bank may sell to or buy from the Bank of the Republic, the Mortgage Bank, commercial banks, and banking and ex- change houses. Uruguay formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 2, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through authorized banks, banking houses, exchange houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Any person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the market, provided this does not become a customary business. Exchange houses must be authorized by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agreements may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion (LAIA); these countries are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Para- guay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate ar- rangements for trade in specified goods with Ar- gentina, Brazil, and Mexico, among other countries. All settlements of balances under the multilateral clearing system are made in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration before the goods are shipped. The registrations are generally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. Most imports are subject to import surcharges. The surcharge rates are within a range of 10- 45 percent and are payable to the Bank of the Re- public at the time of registration. Full or partial exemption from these surcharges is granted for im- ports from member countries of the LAIA, imports of agricultural inputs, imports by the public sector, imports of machinery, equipment, tools, and spare parts for certain priority industries, and imports under the temporary admission scheme. The Bank of the Republic also collects a consular charge of 4 percent on the f .o.b. value of imports, with certain exemptions. Most imports are also subject to a customs tariff (impuesto aduanero unico, IMADUNI) and a service charge (tasa de movilizacion de bultos, TMB), collected by the Customs Office. Tariff rates vary between zero and 15 percent. The service charge is 1 percent of the c . i .f. import price for most imports. There are exemptions to IMADUNI and TMB. The combined effective tariff rate (including surcharges, tariffs, consular fees, and service charges) is limited to a maximum of 45 percent. Import surcharges, IMADUNI, and TMB are calcu- lated either on an officially assesed price (precio de referenda), on a minimum export price, or on the actual c .i .f. value, whichever is the highest. Payments for Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for invis- ibles or the export of foreign or domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be negotiated in the banking system not later than 520 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY 521 36 months after the expiration date of shipping doc- uments. Exporters are eligible for rebates in respect of indirect taxes paid during the production pro- cess; these rebates replaced the system of tax credit certificates with effect from January 1, 1983. From time to time, and for special reasons (e.g., stock position, protection, or sanitary considerations), certain exports are forbidden or subjected to special conditions. Some of the traditional exports, such as meat (mutton, beef, and horse), greasy wool (scoured and semiscoured), dry, salted, and pickled hides, and livestock on the hoof (except that of pedigree or pure crossbred), are subject to an export tax at the rate of 5 percent. Fish exports are eligible for tax credit certificates amounting to between 2 percent and 8 percent of the f .o .b. value of exports, which can be used by the exporter to pay taxes or social security contributions, or can be sold to a third party. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements on the pro- ceeds from invisibles, and there are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Inward and outward private capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely, with the exception of certain inward and outward transfers relating to investments regis- tered under the Foreign Investment Law. The amor- tization or liquidation proceeds of foreign capital registered under this law cannot normally be trans- ferred abroad until three years after the date on which the investment was approved. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Uruguay or abroad. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments November 9. The import procedures for fruits and vegetables were simplified. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Vanuatu is the Vatu. Since Febru- ary 5, 1988, the external value of the vatu has been determined on the basis of an undisclosed transactions-weighted basket of currencies. The Central Bank of Vanuatu buys and sells foreign ex- change daily, and buying and selling rates of the vatu against major currencies (Australian dollars, French francs, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and New Zealand dollars) are quoted within margins of 0.25 percent around the middle rate. The Central Bank deals with the commercial banks only in U.S. dollars on a spot basis, and buys and sells foreign exchange only in transactions with the commercial banks for account of the Government or for com- mercial banks' operations. On December 30, 1988, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar (for telegraphic transfers) were VT 104.79 and VT 105.31 per US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward exchange rate cover facilities operating in the official sector. As a rule, the commercial banks also do not provide forward exchange rate cover facilities. Vanuatu formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 1, 1982. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments All items may be freely imported with the excep- tion of the following: any goods that are controlled under internal legislation in the interest of national health and well-being, such as arms and ammuni- tions, explosives, and dangerous drugs; and certain plants, foodstuffs, and animals, which are also re- stricted and subject to authorization. Importation of chicken pieces, canned soft drinks, and T-shirts bearing a Vanuatu motif are restricted through im- port licensing arrangements. A similar restriction is applied to the importation of five basic products— rice, sugar, flour, canned fish, and tobacco products —under a scheme designed to provide funds for the National Cooperative Federation. Three importers pay a commission fee to the Coop- erative for the right to import these five products. Customs duties are levied mainly on an ad va- lorem basis on the c . i .f. value of imports. Certain goods, including spirits, wine, beer, tobacco prod- ucts, and petroleum products, are subject to specific rates of import duty. Imported goods that compete with locally produced equivalents are generally lia- ble to high duty rates. A customs service tax of 5 percent is applied to most imports based on the duty-inclusive import value. Goods imported for a specified end-use may be exempt from import duties. These include goods imported by or on behalf of the Government that are funded by external aid, goods imported for sale to and exported by tourists, ships stores (including fuels), goods imported for processing and re-expor- tation, and goods imported for investment projects. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions, no restrictions are applied on exports. Exports of trochus, green snails, beches- de-mer, and crustaceans1 are subject to authoriza- tion by the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Forestry. Copra and cocoa exports are channeled through the Vanuatu Commodities Marketing Board (VCMB), and exports of coffee are subject to authorization from the VCMB. Artifacts that are five years old or more are subject to authorization from the Cultural Center. Most exports are subject to export duties, mainly on an ad valorem basis (f.o.b.); specific duties are levied on some minor exports, including scrap metal and timber. There are no surrender require- ments for export proceeds. including coconut crabs for conservation purposes. 522 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU 523 Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Capital All inward and outward movements of capital are unrestricted. Gold There are no restrictions on gold transactions. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement February 5. The SDR-peg arrangement was re- placed by a peg to an undisclosed transactions- weighted basket of currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Venezuela is the Venezuelan Bolivar. Venezuela maintains a four-tier exchange rate system under which three of the exchange rates are pegged to the U.S. dollar and the fourth is a fluctuating rate.1 In the first market the Central Bank sells foreign exchange to the public in eligible cases at the rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1. The Central Bank may also sell foreign exchange at Bs 4.2925 = US$1 to banks, which may in turn sell to their customers at a rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1. Eligible payments at this preferential rate include those for (1) interest on private external debt authorized by the Differential Exchange System Office (RECADI) that fell due before December 31, 1983; (2) amorti- zation of authorized and registered private external debt (defined as net liability position) eligible for immediate payment;2 and (3) amortization of 10 per- cent of debts other than those eligible for immediate payment. In the second market the Central Bank sells for- eign exchange to the public at the rate of Bs 7.50 = US$1, and to banks at the rate of Bs 7.4925 = US$1 when the banks act as intermediaries, for the pur- pose of: (1) interest payments on external private sector debt registered at RECADI and falling due between December 31,1983 and December 8,1986; (2) current expenditure and capital expenditure abroad by the public authorities and public sector entities; (3) expenditure derived from the interna- tional commitments of the Republic; (4) external Effective March 13, 1989, the multiple exchange rate system was abolished, and the external value of the bolivar was allowed to float in response to the supply and demand conditions in the unified interbank market. Repayments of certain registered pri- vate sector debt and trade credits outstanding before the adop- tion of the new exchange system are being effected at the ex- change rates of Bs 7.50 and Bs 14.50 per US$1, respectively, until December 31, 1989. 2Debts amounting to US$500,000 or less, export credits with foreign official guarantee due before July 17,1986, and debts in the form of certificates of deposit or foreign currency deposits. Debts of between US$500,000 and US$1 million, although eligi- ble for immediate payment, are to be amortized at the rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1. Export credits with foreign official guarantee due after July 17,1986 can be amortized at the rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1 on their respective dates of maturity, if the debtor sub- scribes to the optional foreign exchange guarantee scheme, ex- cept for the amounts falling due after July 17,1986 but before the signing of a contract between the debtor and the Central Bank, in which case amortization payments can be made immediately at Bs 7.50 per US$1. Amortization payments of private debts that have been assumed by the Government as guarantor are also effected at the rate of BS 7.50 per US$1. public debt interest and amortization payments charged against the budget for fiscal year 1986; (5) external debt servicing of public enterprises, provided the debtor subscribes to the exchange guarantee scheme; and (6) amortization payments on registered private external debt other than those eligible for the Bs 4.30 per US$1 rate,3 and interest on private registered debt falling due after Decem- ber 8, 1986, provided the debtor subscribes to the optional exchange guarantee scheme introduced in December 1986. In the third market the Central Bank buys foreign exchange at the rate of Bs 14.4925 = US$1 from the public and public sector entities for the proceeds from exports of goods and services (excluding tour- ism) and all public and registered private capital imports; it sells foreign exchange in the same mar- ket to the public at the rate of Bs 14.50 = US$1, and to banks at the rate of Bs 14.4925 = US$1 when the banks act as intermediaries, for the purpose of: (1) all authorized imports of goods and services (excluding tourism); (2) public sector current pay- ments abroad and payments related to international commitments of the Government of Venezuela; (3) outward remittances to certain students abroad during 1987, and to all students abroad after De- cember 31, 1987; (4) interest and amortization pay- ments on external debt contracted or serviced by the Central Government; and (5) private debt amortiza- tion payments on registered debts eligible for but not covered by the optional exchange rate guarantee scheme. In the fourth market transactions take place at a freely fluctuating rate; this rate applies to tourism transactions and nonregistered private capital flows. The Central Bank may buy and sell foreign exchange at the fluctuating rate market, which oper- ates through financial intermediaries. The banks and exchange houses in this market may establish different exchange rates according to the instru- ment being transacted, but the spread between buying and selling rates for the same instrument may not exceed Bs 0.05 per US$1 in the case of banks, and Bs 0.15 per US$1 in the case of exchange 3I.e., debts of between US$500,000 and US$1 million, export credits with official guarantees falling due between July 17,1986 and the date of the signing of the contracts between the debtor and the Central Bank, and 90 percent of the debts covered pre- viously under the five-year rescheduling scheme, provided the debtor subscribes to the optional guarantee scheme introduced in December 1986. 524 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 525 houses. On December 30, 1988, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the commercial bank market were Bs 39.10 and Bs 39.15 per US$1, respectively. Buying and selling rates for other officially quoted currencies4 are based, for each market, on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in major markets abroad. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In the case of interbank transfers, domestic banks may charge only the cost of the transfer, including com- mission and other charges by the foreign banks. Under the exchange rate guarantee scheme, debtors can acquire guaranteed access to foreign exchange at the rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1 by paying a premium (see section on Capital, below). As regards import operations using foreign exchange from the official market, cover is available as follows: (1) if the operation is covered by letters of credit, the ex- change rate applicable for paying for the import will be the rate prevailing when the letter of credit is opened, provided no more than 360 days have elapsed since the date on which the letter of credit was opened; (2) if the operation is carried out using facilities other than a letter of credit, the exchange rate applicable for the payment will be the rate pre- vailing on the date of shipment of the goods or, if the goods have not been shipped, on the date the legal documentation is issued attesting to the commit- ment assumed by the importer; (3) if the imports are effected in cash, the exchange rate applicable to the payment will be maintained for a period of 180 days from the date of shipment of the merchandise; and (4) if the import is financed with suppliers' credits, the exchange rate applicable to the transfer will be maintained for 360 consecutive days from the date of shipment of the merchandise. Venezuela formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agree- ment on July 1, 1976. Administration of Control Foreign exchange policies are established by the Ministry of Finance, with the advice of the Differen- tial Exchange System Advisory Committee. The committee is chaired by the Minister of Finance and includes the Minister of Development, the Minister of Agriculture and Livestock, the Minister of the Central Coordination and Planning Office, the Pres- ident of the Central Bank of Venezuela, and the President of the Venezuelan Investment Fund. The 4Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, and Swiss francs. exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance. Import and export licenses are generally issued by the Min- istry of Development or the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, depending on the commodity. Im- port quotas and prohibitions within the multiple exchange rate system are established by the Minis- try of Finance. The Superintendency of Foreign In- vestments (SIEX) exercises supervision over foreign investment in Venezuela, over contracts for the im- portation of foreign technology and the use of for- eign patents and trademarks, and over borrowing abroad. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Domini- can Republic, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through accounts main- tained with each other by the Central Bank of Vene- zuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. In ad- dition, importation of certain goods is either pro- hibited or reserved for the Government; these in- clude iron and steel products, luxury food, apparel, and specified consumer durables. Certain other commodities also require import licenses. For pro- tective purposes, quantitative restrictions are main- tained on some of these items, irrespective of origin, except in the case of Andean Pact and Latin America Integration Association (LAIA) member countries. Licenses are valid for all countries except South Africa. Import licenses for some goods are issued on evidence that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the quantity to be imported. Payments for imports that are not prohibited, re- served for the public sector, or subject to special regimes may be made at the rate of Bs 14.50 = US$1 when authorized by RECADI, or at the free market rate. To have access to foreign exchange from the Central Bank for payment of imports, an importer must obtain an import license (conformidad de impor- tation) from the Directorate of Imports and the Min- istry of Finance before the date of shipment of the goods; the license has a validity of 180 days, and may be renewed up to a period determined by the Directorate in each specific case. Import licenses are granted on the basis of semiannual import pro- grams, which are approved for each individual firm at the beginning of each year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 526 VENEZUELA In the case of imports channeled through the official market and not effected through a letter of credit, importers must submit the import license to the Central Bank within 90 banking days from the date of customs clearance. The importer may obtain from the Central Bank the foreign exchange to settle his obligations as they become due, up to the total amount authorized in the import license, within 25 banking days after 120 days have elapsed since the date of shipment of the goods. In the case of imports effected through letters of credit, the importer may obtain from the Central Bank foreign exchange for the equivalent of up to 20 percent of the amount authorized in the import license. In the case of imports of raw materials for the manufacture of goods intended for exports by exporting firms registered with the Foreign Trade Institute, the importer may obtain from the Central Bank foreign exchange for the equivalent of up to 50 percent of the amount authorized in the import license issued by the Foreign Trade Institute. In both cases, the Central Bank issues a Certificate of Availability of Foreign Exchange for the total amount authorized minus the amount released ear- lier, which is valid for 360 days from the date of opening of the letter of credit. The importer must submit this certificate to the Central Bank (within 90 banking days from the date of customs clearance) to obtain from the Central Bank (within 25 banking days after 120 days have elapsed since the date of shipment of the goods) the remaining foreign ex- change to settle the obligations under the letter of credit as they fall due. In the case of imports effected directly by public sector entities, foreign exchange equivalent to up to 100 percent of the authorized amount in the import license issued by the Ministry of Finance will be provided by the Central Bank within 60 days after submission by the public sector agency of the im- port license to the Central Bank. In accordance with the timetable issued by the Andean Pact Commission contained in the Protocol of Lima, Venezuela adopted the minimum external tariff in 1978 (Decree No. 2772 of August 3,1978). It agreed, in principle, to harmonize external tariffs and eliminate all import duties on trade within the Andean subregion by December 31, 1983 in the prescribed annual stages. Payments for Invisibles Interest payments on registered private external debt falling due before December 31, 1983 are al- lowed to be made through the preferential rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1. Interest payments on public and registered private external debt falling due after De- cember 31, 1983, including interest on private or public entities' debts falling due after December 6, 1986 if the debtor chooses to opt for the exchange rate guarantee scheme, may be made at the rate of Bs 7.50 = US$1. The following invisible payments are effected at the rate of Bs 14.50 per US$1: (1) freight, insurance, and import-financing costs associated with imports made at this rate; (2) interest on the external debt of the Central Gov- ernment or serviced by the Central Government; (3) other public sector current payments abroad; (4) outward remittances to students; and (5) interest payments on registered private debts not covered by the exchange rate guarantee scheme. Other payments for invisibles can be made through the free market without limit. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Ex- ports of certain furs and hides, scrap metal, and a few other commodities are prohibited. Licenses are required for the export of commodities subject to price controls or deemed to be in short supply do- mestically; for most commodities, such licenses are issued by the Ministry of Development, but those for coffee, cacao, rice, and sugar are granted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. The export of precious stones and gold requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. All export earn- ings by companies dealing in gold must be surren- dered to the Central Bank at the exchange rate it uses for its operations in the free market. In the case of private exporters, the authorization to export is contingent on agreement to sell export proceeds to authorized banks within 30 days of shipment in the case of cash exports, and within 10 days of the due payment date in the case of exports on credit. Re- ceipts from exports other than oil and iron can be surrendered at the rate of Bs 14.4925 = US$1, or at the free market exchange rate under two conditions: the exporter must give up access to the fiscal sub- sidy for at least two years; only the domestic value added of exports is eligible for the free market rate, with the import content to be surrendered at the official rate of Bs 14.4925 = US$1. Proceeds from exports of oil and iron must be received at the official rate of Bs 14.4925 = US$1. Exporters of coffee and cacao may receive an ex- port subsidy calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products on Venezuelan imports from falling below specified minimum amounts, regardless of external prices. In principle, the bene- fit of these arrangements may be extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 527 promotion of nontraditional exports takes four basic forms: (1) the Export Financing Fund, established in September 1973, provides direct credit facilities at interest rates below those charged by other lenders, and it also lends in conjunction with commercial banks; (2) the Export Incentive Law (Septem- ber 1973) assists nontraditional exports through fis- cal subsidies in the form of tax credit certificates; (3) exporters' access to foreign exchange for imports is facilitated; and (4) exporters have the option of surrendering the domestic value added of exports at the free market rate. Under the Export Incentive Law, negotiable tax credit certificates with a two-year maturity are granted to exporters of nontraditional products (i.e., exports other than petroleum, iron ore, coffee, and cacao) that have a domestic value-added con- tent of greater than 30 percent and that are effected at the exchange rate of Bs 14.4925 = US$1. These certificates can be held to maturity and used to meet government tax liabilities, or can be traded in the local market at a discount. For the purpose of cal- culating the amount of the export subsidy, the do- mestic currency equivalent of the export value is calculated at the rate of Bs 14.50 = US$1. For firms exporting more than 15 percent of their production or more than US$250,000 a year, separate semian- nual quotas for imports of raw materials, spare parts, and semifinished products are established at the beginning of each year; the Directorate of Im- ports issues individual import permits on the basis of these firms' applications and within their special import programs. Foreign investment projects or joint ventures with at least 80 percent production for exports may be authorized to effect all foreign ex- change transactions through the free exchange mar- ket, except to the extent needed to cover bolivar operating costs. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are to be sur- rendered at the rate of Bs 14.50 per US$1, except for receipts from tourism, which are freely disposable. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, with the exception that importation for commercial purposes of foreign coin other than gold coin is prohibited. Capital The national and local governments, autonomous agencies, and state enterprises (other than petro- leum and iron ore companies) are required to sur- render to the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 14.50 = US$1 all exchange proceeds from foreign borrow- ing; principal repayments on registered external debt of public sector entities are effected at the rate of Bs 7.50 = US$1, if covered by the exchange guar- antee scheme, and principal repayments on the ex- ternal debt contracted or serviced by the Central Government and on debts of public entities not covered by that scheme are effected at the rate of Bsl4.50 = US$1. All foreign exchange brought into Venezuela by the Venezuelan Investment Fund is subject to conversion at the rate of Bs 14.50 = US$1. Principal repayments of registered external private debt can be effected at the rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1, if the debt amounts to US$500,000 or less and fell due before July 17,1986, and if it is in the form of export credits with foreign official guarantee or in the form of certificates of deposit or foreign currency de- posits. Registered debt amounting to between US$500,000 and US$1 million and export credits with foreign official guarantee due after July 17, 1986, but before the signing of a contract between the debtor and the Central Bank, can be amortized immediately at the rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1. For the remainder of private registered debts, amortization may take place on the respective dates of maturity at the rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1 under an optional ex- change rate guarantee scheme. Debt eligible for registration was defined as the net liabilities position in foreign exchange as of Feb- ruary 18, 1983 of (1) banking, financial, and insur- ance companies; and (2) nonfinancial enterprises of mixed or Venezuelan ownership in the areas of manufacturing (if the debt was contracted for the acquisition of capital goods for use within the coun- try), transportation and public services (if the debt was for the acquisition of equipment), and con- struction (if the debt was incurred for public sector works or works guaranteed by the public sector for social housing projects). Under the exchange rate guarantee scheme, debtors can acquire guaranteed access to foreign exchange at the rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1 for servicing their registered debts, over a period of eight years, by paying in advance a pre- mium in bolivares. For private debts, the premium is Bs 3 per US$1 for amortization payments, and an additional variable premium of up to Bs 1.50 for each US$1 of registered debt for interest payments.5 A similar exchange rate guarantee scheme exists for external debts of state enterprises and auto- nomous institutions that were contracted before 5The premium varies according to the foreign interest rate under which interest payments are to be covered by the exchange rate guarantee (about Bs 0.17 a percentage point), up to a max- imum rate of 9 percent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 528 VENEZUELA February 18,1983.6 Debtors have the option of sub- scribing to the exchange rate guarantee for part or all of the amortization payments or for part or all of the interest payments. Any debt-service payments of registered debt eligible for this scheme, but not subscribed to it by the debtor, can be channeled through the controlled exchange market at the rate in effect at the time of payment. In both cases, regardless of whether the exchange guarantee is subscribed, amortization payments are to be effected according to a prescribed (backloaded) schedule, and the interest rate is to be limited to LIBOR plus 1V4 percentage points. Debtors may defer the payment of the premium over the eight- year period, in line with the schedule of debt ser- vice, by paying interest at a rate linked to domestic lending rates. All other inward and outward capital transfers by residents must be registered with SIEX in order to be eligible for the Bs 14.50 per US$1 exchange rate, although they are permitted without restriction in the freely fluctuating exchange market. However, brokerage activity in Venezuela in shares or units of foreign investment trusts or mutual funds is pro- hibited. Foreign capital imported for investment purposes and all foreign credits must be registered with SIEX. Foreign direct investment is governed by Andean Pact regulations; a new foreign investment code, however, has resulted in a substantial liberal- ization of the system. Natural gas and iron mining operations are reserved for the State, and foreign investment in the petroleum sector is prohibited; this restriction may be lifted in exceptional cases. The Central Bank regulates bank credit to nonresi- dents and companies whose capital is more than 50 percent owned by physical persons or companies that are resident or domiciled abroad. The General Banking Law authorizes the Government to regu- late bank credit to companies whose capital is more than 40 percent owned by nonresident or foreign physical persons or companies. This law also regu- lates the activities of foreign banks operating in Venezuela. Interest earnings on loans extended by foreign financial institutions are exempt from the income tax. Decree No. 1521 and Exchange Agreement No. 4, in combination with the new Foreign Investment Code, regulate the conversion of public sector exter- nal debt into equity or financial assets in Venezuela. Debt-equity conversion is allowed if the intended 6In accordance with the longer repayment period established for such debts, the premium has been set somewhat higher than for private debts (Bs 3.50 for each U.S. dollar of principal, and Bs 0.25 for each percentage point of interest covered). investment is directed either at import substitution, export industries, preventing closure of Venezuelan enterprises, or 1 of 11 priority sectors. For a period of three years, after-tax dividend and profit remit- tances are limited to an annual rate of 10 percent of the converted debt; remittances in subsequent years are subject to the rules of the Foreign Investment Code. No capital repatriation is allowed for a period of five years, and during the following eight years, repatriation is limited to a maximum annual rate of 12.5 percent. The Central Bank acquires the foreign debt at par or at a discount to be determined in each individual case at an exchange rate of Bs 14.4925 per US$1. Debt-equity swaps in exporting industries (firms exporting at least 80 percent of their produc- tion) can be effected at the free market exchange rate, up to a limit of 40 percent of the total invest- ment if the investment does not exceed US$10 mil- lion, or up to a limit of 60 percent if the investment exceeds US$100 million. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment purposes. The Central Bank does not deal in gold with the public, but gold coin, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated among authorized importers and exchange houses and the public. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coin among them- selves and with other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank, as are imports of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela. Imports and exports of nonmonetary gold (other than jewelry for personal use) and of gold coins eligible as legal tender in Venezuela or abroad are subject to prior authorization by the Cen- tral Bank. In addition, imports require licenses from the Central Bank and in certain cases also from the Minister of Development; exports require authori- zation by the Central Bank. As an incentive mea- sure, export earnings by companies dealing in gold are converted by the Central Bank at the free market rate. The law prescribes a license for all imports and exports of gold by anyone not registered at the Cen- tral Bank as an exporter of gold. Imports of gold are subject to duty at varying rates. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement January-November. Imports effected at the ex- change rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1 were gradually ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 529 reduced to a small number of agricultural and other commodities. October 20. It was announced that, effective November 30, the preferential exchange rate of Bs 7.50 per US$1 for "essential" imports would be eliminated and that these imports would be shifted to the official exchange rate. Imports and Import Payments March 1. The minimum import-financing period for automotive parts was raised to 270 days. Exports and Export Proceeds October 20. It was announced that, effective November 30, foreign exchange receipts from non- traditional exports (excluding oil and iron) could be sold at the free market rate, subject to the conditions that: (1) the exporter must give up access to the fiscal subsidy scheme for exports for a period of at least two years, and (2) only the domestic value-added component of exports would be eligible for the free market rate, with the import content to be surren- dered at the official rate of Bs 14.50 per US$1. Capital February 1. Foreign investments with joint ven- tures in certain industries (chemical, petrochemi- cal, pulp and paper, metallurgical and steel) that export at least 80 percent of their production were permitted to remit abroad dividends and capital without restriction and were required to surrender export proceeds that are needed only to finance local costs. February 22. Foreign banks were authorized to open letters of credit directly with Venezuelan im- porting firms rather than only with Venezuelan banks. October 20. Foreign investors were authorized to execute at the free market exchange rate debt-equity swaps for the financing of investments in the export sector, subject to a limit of 40 percent of the total investment not exceeding US$100 million, or of 60 percent if the total investment exceeds US$100 million. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Viet Nam is the Dong. The ex- change rate is quoted in terms of the U.S. dollar to which it is pegged, and adjustments are made at irregular intervals in light of developments in do- mestic and international prices. On February 25, 1988, the exchange rate of the dong for inward remittances was adjusted from D 504 to D 900 per US$1. On September 15, 1988, the exchange rate for the dong for external trade transactions was adjusted from D 225 to D 900 per US$1, thus unifying that exchange rate with the exchange rate for inward remittances. On Novem- ber 10,1988, the exchange rate for the dong for most invisible transactions was adjusted from D 368 to D 2,600 per US$1. The exchange rate for most invis- ible transactions and external trade transactions out- side the foreign exchange plan was further adjusted to D 2,800 per US$1 on December 10 and to D 3,000 per US$1 on December 26, 1988. For external trade transactions outside the plan and for those of local enterprises, the exchange rate for the dong was adjusted from D 900 to D 2,600 per US$1. For exter- nal trade transactions within the plan, the exchange rate of D 900 per US$1 still applies. On Decem- ber 30, 1988, the official exchange rate used for noncommercial transactions was D 3,000 per US$1, and the clearing ruble rate was D 1,080 per one clearing ruble. There are no arrangements for for- ward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the State Bank of Viet Nam. Foreign trade is administered by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, which authorizes the foreign trade transactions carried out by specialized import-export corporations and some cooperatives or state enterprises. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Eco- nomic Relations; approval is given for imports in excess of the plan on the merit of each application. Most official foreign exchange transactions are effected by the Bank for Foreign Trade. Most of the foreign exchange transactions related to foreign technical assistance are monitored by the Aid Re- ception Commission, which is an agency directly attached to the Cabinet of the Prime Minister. Ar- rears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Trade transactions with member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) are settled under the transferable ruble system ad- ministered by the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC). Transactions with Albania, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea are settled through individual clearing accounts using clearing (or bilat- eral) rubles. As a member of the CMEA, Viet Nam is entitled to use credits in transferable rubles from the IBEC to facilitate the clearing of transactions with the CMEA member countries. Viet Nam is also entitled to use credits from the IBEC to finance its external trade deficit with the CMEA countries, pending the conclusion of medium- or long-term financing arrangements with the trade parties. Viet Nam maintains a special current account in convert- ible foreign exchange with the IBEC for a petroleum joint venture between Viet Nam and the U.S.S.R. Nontrade transactions with countries with which Viet Nam has bilateral payments agreements1 take place at exchange rates specified in those agreements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain nonresi- dent accounts either in foreign currencies or in con- vertible dong. Nonresidents can freely reconvert into foreign currency and transfer abroad unused balances in Vietnamese currency that have been acquired against foreign currency. Imports and Exports An import plan and an export plan are drawn up annually on the basis of the overall annual plan and quotas agreed upon under bilateral trade arrange- ments. Import and export activities are regulated by Decision No. 177, which was issued by the Council of Ministers on June 15,1985 and modified by Deci- sion No. 161 of the Council of Ministers on Octo- ber 1988. Trade transactions are carried out by 28 1 At the end of 1988, Viet Nam maintained bilateral payments agreements with three member countries of the Fund —the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mali, and the Syrian Arab Re- public (only the agreement with the Lao People's Democratic Republic was operative), and with two countries that are not members of the Fund —Albania and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. 530 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM 531 centrally managed import-export corporations and 22 local trading companies, which produce export- able goods themselves or purchase them from pro- ducers. Some other enterprises can export directly. All payments for external trade transactions are made through the Bank for Foreign Trade; export receipts are also normally channeled through the Bank for Foreign Trade. Local export companies are permitted to export all available commodities, including the 25 items previously under the monopoly of the central export-import companies. Local corporations may import only commodities appearing on a list ap- proved by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Rela- tions, which is amended periodically. The procure- ment prices of exportable commodities and the domestic prices of imported goods are determined by local companies within ranges that are set by the State Pricing Commission for each group of com- modities. In order to make better use of available marketing expertise and facilities, local trading com- panies in the provinces are permitted to enter into joint venture arrangements with trading companies located in various municipalities. Export companies benefit from subsidies when- ever their procurement costs are not fully covered by the international prices of their exports converted to domestic currency at the exchange rate that is applied to trade transactions. For centrally man- aged companies, these subsidies are made available by the Export Support Fund, which is maintained by the Ministry of Finance. For locally managed companies these subsidies are paid out of profits made on imports, with the balance paid by the local government. Export permits are granted only when export subsidies do not exceed pre-established norms. An export bonus system has been in operation since 1980 to provide additional incentives for ex- port production. Since June 15, 1985, the bonus for collective production units (cooperatives, coopera- tion teams, and production collectives) amounts to 4-5 percent of the value in domestic currency of their production of export goods if their plan quota is fulfilled. Central and local companies fulfilling their export quota are granted foreign exchange equivalent to 10 percent of their export earnings to import required inputs. Import corporations receive export subsidies from the budget to cover their pro- duction and procurement costs, and the export sub- sidy fund that is operated for this purpose is fi- nanced by profits from import sales. Following the fulfillment of the export plan against the delivery of input by the Government, export-producing enterprises are entitled either to retain 10-30 percent of export earnings in deposits in foreign currencies or to use foreign exchange at their discretion; the remainder must be surrendered to the Government. In the case of exports not cov- ered by the plan, the enterprises are entitled either to retain 70-90 percent of export earnings in de- posits in foreign currencies or to use foreign ex- change at their discretion; the remainder must be surrendered to the Government. Local trading companies are also required to sur- render 10-30 percent of their export earnings (in convertible currencies) that exceed the quota deliv- ered to the State. However, many exemptions cur- rently apply. For localities that borrow in foreign currency, the surrender requirement is applied to their export earnings, net of their debt-servicing payments, for a period of three to five years; com- panies operating in the highland area are exempted from surrendering foreign exchange for a period of five years after they start producing exportable goods. Centrally managed companies operating in the tourist sectors are exempted from the surrender requirement, and central companies exporting coal, rubber, and marine products are allowed to retain 80-100 percent of their export earnings to purchase necessary inputs from the convertible area. De- posits arising from foreign currency receipts are held in special domestic currency accounts that can be used for the purchase of foreign currency for imports. The right to use these convertible dong deposits can be relinquished to other enterprises in exchange for the supply of inputs. State enterprises have two export plans. Primary export plans are formulated by the Government against deliveries of key inputs by the Government; secondary plans are set by the producing units without a sufficient supply of inputs (e.g., fuel) by the Government, thus leaving the task of procuring the needed inputs to the enterprises. New taxes on international trade became effective in early 1988. Import duties ranging from 5 percent to 55 percent, with the majority of rates not exceed- ing 20 percent, were introduced. The lowest rates are levied on imports of raw materials and capital equipment, and the highest rates are levied on im- ports of consumer goods classified as luxuries (pre- viously, import duties were levied only on noncom- mercial imports, and this duty was retained). The export taxes for most products range up to 10 per- cent. The taxes on international trade are calculated on the basis of the exchange rate applied to trade transactions. For imports from the nonconvertible currency area, annual foreign exchange is allocated to im- porters on the basis of actual production capacity; in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 532 VIET NAM principle, such foreign exchange cannot be carried over from one year to the next. For imports from the convertible area, although a similar foreign ex- change allocation system exists in principle, it is not in use, as decisions to allocate foreign exchange are taken by the Prime Minister's Cabinet on a case-by- case basis, on recommendations from the State Planning Commission, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, and spec- ified Vice-Premiers. For transactions under the local production plans, local authorities are authorized to decide on foreign exchange allocation, provided that the resources are derived from their retained export earnings. Payments for Invisibles All transactions in invisibles require individual authorization by the Ministry of Finance. Foreign exchange is made available upon authorization of the transaction. All travel abroad needs individual authorization from the Prime Minister's Cabinet and is limited to official businesses for which all reasonable foreign exchange expenses are covered.2 Receipts from transactions in invisibles must be sur- rendered to the Ministry of Finance. The export and import of Vietnamese currency and of securities denominated in Vietnamese cur- rency need the special permission of the State Bank. As of October 1988, Vietnamese citizens having for- eign currency are allowed to sell it to banks at com- mercial exchange rates, to make purchases at shops selling goods for foreign exchange, and to deposit it into bank accounts bearing interest on foreign cur- rency at interest rates set by the bank. Foreign cur- rency deposited with a bank may be withdrawn for payment or transfer to other units or individuals. Legal holders of foreign exchange are authorized to buy foreign and local consumer goods in special government shops, and tourists are required to make certain payments in convertible foreign currency. Capital A new law on foreign investment was approved by the National Assembly on December 29, 1987, providing for three forms of foreign investment: (1) contracted business cooperation, such as product-sharing arrangements; (2) joint ventures between a foreign investor and a Vietnamese state 2As of February 1988, private travel has been permitted for specified reasons, including study, health, and visiting relatives abroad. In the latter case, the traveler must have a round-trip ticket and adequate funds provided by transfers from the rela- tives abroad. economic organization; and (3) categories wholly owned by foreign investors. The permitted share of foreign capital is to be no less than 30 percent, and there is no upper limit. Other provisions under the Investment Code include: (1) the duration of the enterprise with foreign capital, not to exceed 20 years, but if necessary, to be extended for a longer period; (2) a tax of 5-10 percent, to be levied on remittance of profits abroad; (3) income taxes, to be paid at the reduced rates of 15-25 percent, starting two years after the first profit-making year; and (4) possible exemptions from or reductions of import and export duties in exceptional cases. The Code also provides that foreign investors need to deal only with one organization within the Government specifically created for that purpose. Beginning in October 1988, Vietnamese organiza- tions and citizens who need foreign currency for production and business purposes are permitted, upon verification by competent agencies, to borrow foreign currency or get a bank guarantee for loans in foreign currency. If allowed to borrow directly from foreign countries under commercial credit, the bor- rower must report periodically to the State Bank the expenditures in foreign currency from funds depos- ited abroad, including loan repayments. Gold The State Bank alone has the authority to pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Individuals are permitted to own jewelry and artistic and cultural objects of gold for domestic and personal use. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement February 25. The exchange rate for the dong used for inward remittances was changed from D 504 to D 900 per US$1. September 15. The exchange rate for the dong used for external trade transactions was changed from D 225 to D 900 per US$1. November 10. The exchange rate for most invisible transactions was changed from D 368 to D 2,600 per US$1. For external trade transactions outside the foreign exchange plan and for those of local enter- prises, the exchange rate for the dong was changed from D 900 to D 2,600 per US$1. For external trade transactions within the foreign exchange plan, the exchange rate of D 900 per US$1 remained applicable. December 10. The exchange rate used for external trade transactions outside the foreign exchange plan, for external trade of local enterprises, and for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM 533 most invisible transactions was adjusted from D 2,600 to D 2,800 per US$1. December 26. The exchange rate used for external trade transactions outside the foreign exchange plan, for external trade of local enterprises, and for most invisible transactions was changed from D 2,800 to D 3,000 per US$1. Imports and Exports October 21. The Council of Ministers passed a new decree on foreign exchange control under which Vietnamese organizations and citizens, upon ex- porting goods or services or receiving transfers, were required to deposit foreign exchange into their bank accounts and to sell foreign currency to the State according to prescribed stipulations. Account owners were entitled to use foreign currency to pay for imports of goods and services and to repay loans, or to sell foreign exchange at commercial exchange rates to the bank. Capital October 21. The Council of Ministers passed a new decree on foreign exchange control. Under this de- cree Vietnamese organizations and citizens that need foreign currency for production and business purposes may, upon verification by competent agencies, borrow foreign currency from a bank or obtain a bank guarantee for loans in foreign cur- rency. If allowed to open foreign currency accounts in foreign countries or to borrow directly from for- eign countries, they must report periodically to the State Bank expenditures in foreign currency from funds deposited abroad, including loan repayments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Western Samoa is the Western Samoa Tala. The exchange rate of the tala is deter- mined on the basis of a weighted basket of curren- cies. On December 30,1988, the buying and selling rates of the tala in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were WS$1 = US$0.4701 and WS$1 = US$0.4611, respectively. Exchange rates for other currencies are established on the basis of their daily rates against the U.S. dollar. There is an exchange levy of 1 percent on gross sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Overall responsibility for the administration of exchange control rests with the Central Bank of Samoa, which delegates part of its powers to autho- rized banks. In principle, all payments to nonresi- dents of Western Samoa require the approval of the Central Bank of Samoa; the Bank of Western Samoa and the Pacific Commercial Bank —the only autho- rized banks—are empowered to approve certain payments up to any amount, and certain other pay- ments up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescriptions as to the currencies in which payments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Nonresidents may, with the approval of the Central Bank, open external or foreign currency accounts with one of the two commercial banks. Imports and Import Payments The import of a few commodities is prohibited for reasons of security or health. Other commodities may be imported from any source without restric- tion, with the exception of items subject to special approval by the Central Bank on a case-by-case basis, namely timber, motor vehicles, and capital equipment with a c.i.f. value in excess of WS$10,000. In addition, all imports with a c.i.f. value in excess of WS$10,000 are in each case re- quired to be settled under letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles may be approved by the authorized banks up to specified limits. Pay- ments in excess of these limits, as well as payments for all other invisibles, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The Central Bank approval pro- cess that governs the remittance of invisible pay- ments is concerned only with the bona fide nature of the transaction. Residents and expatriates traveling overseas for private purposes are entitled to a for- eign currency allowance equivalent to WS$200 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$3,000 a person a trip; children under 15 years of age are entitled to 50 percent of the adult allowances. In the case of travel for business purposes, the daily allowance is WS$300 with a limit of WS$4,500 a trip. The Central Bank of Samoa grants supplementary allocations against evidence of legitimate need (such as medical expenses). As part of their foreign currency al- lowance, resident travelers may take out foreign bank notes equivalent to WS$1,000 a person a trip. Travelers may not take out any domestic currency. A 15 percent withholding tax is levied on remittances of dividends at the source and interest payments on overseas loans. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require export licenses issued by the Customs Department. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture and the Produce Mar- keting Division on grounds of low quality, or by order of the head of state to alleviate domestic short- ages. Exports of cocoa are controlled by the Cocoa Board. An export levy of 7 percent is imposed on the f.o.b. value of cocoa.1 Export proceeds from goods shipped to countries other than American Samoa must be surrendered to the authorized banks within three months of the date of shipment; export proceeds from goods shipped to American Samoa must be surrendered to the authorized bank within four weeks of the date of shipment. Certificates validated by an authorized bank are required for exports in excess of WS$250. 1PThe export levy on cocoa is activated at prices in excess of WS$800 a ton. 534 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA 535 The following rates of export levies are applied: copra, 5 percent, activated at prices in excess of WS$100 a ton; copra meal, 3 percent; fruits and vegetables, 3 percent; veneer logs and sawn logs, 20 percent; rough timber, 5 percent to 15 percent; and coconut oil, WS$25 a metric ton. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign currencies earned by residents in per- forming services for nonresidents must be surren- dered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must on return sell to the banks all unused foreign currency brought in. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes but may not bring in any domestic bank notes. Capital All outward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank of Samoa. Inward capital remittances do not normally require approval, but borrowing abroad by all residents (in- cluding banks) requires prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank. Authorized banks may approve transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, either for spe- cial family occasions or by way of maintenance, up to WS$250 a year a person. Requests for larger amounts may be approved by the Central Bank on a case-by-case basis. Foreign investments in specified activities in Western Samoa are encouraged. The Enterprises Incentive Act provides for the granting of certain relief of income tax and business license fees to persons engaged in approved enterprises. Both the repatriation of capital and profit remit- tances on foreign capital are subject to approval by the Central Bank of Samoa; such approval is nor- mally granted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on im- ports or exports of gold. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments December 1. The following imports were liber- alized and no longer required prior central bank approval: beer, cigarettes, veneer, matches, ciga- rette lighters, sandals/thongs, soft drinks, and ice cream products. Payments for Invisibles December 1. Foreign exchange allowances for pri- vate and business travel were increased from WS$100 a day (WS$2,000 a trip) and WS$200 a day (WS$4,000 a trip) to WS$200 a day (WS$3,000 a trip) and WS$300 a day (WS$4,500 a trip), respectively. Only WS$1,000 of these allowances may be taken out of the country in foreign currency notes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Yemen Arab Republic is the Yemen Rial, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YRls 9.76 = US$1. On De- cember 30,1988, the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YRls 9.75 and YRls 9.77, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for 12 other currencies1 are fixed daily by the Central Bank of Yemen, on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. The Central Bank is the sole buyer and seller of foreign exchange in the domestic banking system. It purchases foreign exchange mainly from money changers (mainly in Jeddah) who acquire foreign exchange from Y. A.R. workers in Saudi Arabia, and credits the accounts of the money changers with commercial banks in the Yemen Arab Republic. Commercial banks are allowed to purchase foreign exchange domestically (from customers and tour- ists) but must sell any foreign exchange acquired to the Central Bank. The Central Bank provides for- eign exchange to all holders of import licenses at the official exchange rate. An exchange rate of YRls 10 = US$1 is used for the settlement of letters of credit. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. There is an informal market for foreign exchange involving small money changers who, although le- gally not permitted to operate in foreign exchange transactions, transact in small amounts and within reasonable margins. Administration of Control A foreign exchange budget is established by the Central Bank in parallel with a commodity budget prepared by the Ministry of Economy, Commerce, and Supply in consultation with the Central Bank. All imports require a license issued by the Ministry of Economy, Commerce, and Supply. However, since 1988, all enterprises have been permitted to import spare parts up to a maximum value of US$1,000 for each shipment without licenses to meet emergency requirements. The value of im- ports under this facility is not allowed to exceed US$5,000 a month for each enterprise. Transactions in invisibles are supervised by the Central Bank. All commercial banks operate in the foreign exchange market only as agents of the Central Bank. They are not allowed to buy or sell foreign exchange for their own account or for the accounts of their customers. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements may be made in any currency. Imports and Import Payments An annual foreign exchange budget is prepared by the Central Bank, and is approved by the Eco- nomic Committee of the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister. In conjunction with the foreign exchange budget, an import program is prepared annually by the Ministry of Economy, Commerce, and Supply. The priority categories are foodstuffs, petroleum products, medicines, and inputs for production. Imports from Israel and imports of certain types of used machinery for resale are prohibited. All other imports require licenses and must be pro- cessed through local commercial banks. In addition, the importation of certain products requires the per- mission of certain government agencies, and im- ports of petroleum products are reserved for the Yemen Petroleum Company (YPC), a public corpo- ration. With the exception of medical imports, in- surance for all imports must be purchased locally. All importers holding an import license can ob- tain the necessary foreign exchange from the Cen- tral Bank. Y.A.R. nationals returning from abroad who use their savings in foreign exchange to estab- lish small enterprises or craft shops are allowed to import machinery and spare parts needed for their business activities up to a limit of US$40,000 only with the authorization of the Ministry of Economy. Margin deposits (which earn no interest) are pre- scribed against letters of credit opened for imports, as follows: 25 percent for foodstuffs, medical sup- plies, fuel, raw materials, spare parts, and building materials; and 50 percent for all other products.2 In 1 Deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Jordan dinars, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2The deposit requirement was abolished, effective April 1, 1989. The commercial banks may require, on their own discre- tion, deposits against letters of credit. 536 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC 537 addition to the applicable customs duty, imports are subject to a defense tax of 5 percent, a statistical tax of 2 percent, and a tax of 1 percent for reconstruction related to earthquake damage. Since 1985, imports transported over land routes without a license have been subject to a 100 percent surcharge and an advance payment of profits tax equal to 3 percent of their value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. The Central Bank (through its agents, the commercial banks) sells foreign exchange to travelers and those seeking medical treatment abroad, with the amount dependent on their destination. In addition, there are limits on the amount of foreign exchange com- mercial banks may sell to travelers. There is an over- all monthly limit of US$15,000 for each commercial bank on foreign exchange sales to travelers, a limit of US$1,500 on foreign exchange sales to each indi- vidual traveler, and a limit of US$4,000 on foreign exchange sales to a person going abroad for medical treatment. Larger amounts are granted with per- mission from the Central Bank, which is granted routinely. The Central Bank also routinely grants permission for travelers to take out larger amounts of their own foreign exchange. There are no restric- tions on outward remittances in foreign exchange by expatriate employees. Travelers can freely take out bank notes of up to YRls 50,000 or the equivalent in other currencies without prior permission of the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical purposes only, all exports must be registered on forms that are issued freely by banks; export li- censes are not required. Non-petroleum exporters may use 100 percent of their foreign exchange re- ceipts to finance imports either of their own inputs, or any other permitted goods, as long as they have an import license. Exporters do not have to sur- render their foreign exchange proceeds, which may be retained in foreign currency accounts with do- mestic banks. Exporters of qat are subject to an export duty of 12 percent. Capital Although inward and outward capital transfers are not restricted, they are subject to the provisions of the Investment Law administered by the Ministry of Industry. For approved and registered projects, this law guarantees freedom of investment, equal treatment of foreigners and nationals, the transfer abroad of net profits after taxes attributable to foreign capital, and the repatriation of registered capital on liquida- tion in the currency of investment. In practice, in- vestors are free to transfer abroad any portion of their share of net profits after taxes and other provi- sions and to repatriate their capital. Nationalization and confiscation are prohibited, except in cases of urgent public necessity, and then only with com- pensation and permission to transfer foreign capital abroad. Direct investments are authorized by the Ministry of Industry upon determination that the project is economically viable and socially accept- able; a reasonable timetable for completion and other conditions must be specified. Certain tax and import duty exemptions and concessions are granted for a period of five years to approved proj- ects that meet specific economic criteria. Private capital transactions unrelated to direct investments may also be made without restriction. The registra- tion of direct foreign investments and the authen- tication of intended profit and capital repatriation are undertaken by the Ministry of Industry in coop- eration with the Central Bank. External public debt transactions are conducted through the Central Bank, which also maintains accounts of outstand- ing amounts and service payments due. Gold Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the Yemen Arab Republic and to import or export gold in any form without an im- port, export, or exchange license. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement February 1. The official exchange rate was unified with the commercial bank rate at YRls 9.76 = US$1; previously, the official exchange had been pegged to the U.S. dollar at the rate of YRls 8.99 = US$1. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated but may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in foreign bank notes. Imports and Import Payments January 9. Margin deposits required against let- ters of credit were reduced from 40 percent to 25 percent for foods tuffs, medical supplies, and fuel; from 60 percent to 35 percent for other raw ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 538 YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC materials, spare parts, and building materials; and from 100 percent to 50 percent for all other products. June 1. Margin deposits against letters of credit were fur ther reduced from 35 percent to 25 percent for other raw materials, spare parts, and building materials. Payments for Invisibles January 9. The overall limit on the monthly sales of foreign exchange to travelers for each commercial bank was raised from US$10,000 to US$15,000. The limit on foreign exchange sales to individual trav- elers was increased from US$1,000 to US$1,500, and the limit on foreign exchange sales to a person going abroad for medical treatment was increased from US$3,000 to US$4,000. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. Non-petroleum exporters were permit- ted to use 100 percent of their foreign exchange earnings to finance imports, compared with 50 per- cent previously. Proceeds from Invisibles January 15. The requirement that all visitors (with certain exceptions) must convert the equivalent of US$150 into the domestic currency upon arrival was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni Dinar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YD 1 = US$2.89524. Buying and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted by the National Bank of Yemen (the sole commercial bank and au- thorized dealer), with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in mar- kets abroad. On December 31, 1988, the National Bank of Yemen's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YD 0.343 and YD 0.350, respec- tively, per US$1. Rates for all other prescribed cur- rencies are quoted weekly; additional adjustments are made when there are major changes in the mar- ket rates for these currencies in London and New York the previous day. There are no taxes or sub- sidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operating in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is carried out by the General Department for Exchange Con- trol of the National Bank of Yemen (the central bank) through the Foreign Exchange Committee, which has delegated certain powers to the Director of Ex- change Control, a member of that Committee. The Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Supply issues im- port and export licenses; those for gold and other precious metals require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Exchange transac- tions must be carried out through the National Bank of Yemen. Other dealers in foreign exchange, who may deal only in traveler's checks and bank notes, are classi- fied into ordinary money changers and secondary dealers. Ordinary money changers, whose princi- pal business is to sell and purchase foreign ex- change for their own account or for the account of the National Bank, are permitted to deal in specified currencies. Secondary dealers, such as hotels, travel bureaus, and retail stores selling tourist goods, are permitted to accept payment in foreign exchange only from their customers and are required to sur- render the receipts in foreign exchange to the Na- tional Bank not later than the following business day. The authorized bank and money changers are allowed to charge a commission for the purchase and sale of foreign exchange as specified by the Committee, but secondary dealers may not do so. Except for payments for imports against letters of credit or documents, which may be approved by the authorized dealer, all payments for imports (includ- ing those of precious metals) require the prior ap- proval of the Director of Exchange Control. Certain public corporations are engaged in foreign trade (see section on Imports and Import Payments, below). Prescription of Currency Exchange transactions must be carried out through the authorized dealer in accordance with prescription of currency regulations. All payments to Israel are prohibited. Export proceeds and certain receipts from invisibles must be received in convert- ible currencies and surrendered to the authorized dealer; proceeds from exports or re-exports to spec- ified neighboring countries may be surrendered in the currencies of these countries. Payments for im- ports must be made in prescribed currencies. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts in Yemeni dinars may be cred- ited with proceeds from convertible foreign cur- rency transferred from abroad, with bank interest payable on such accounts, and with balances from other External Accounts. Transfers from abroad must be in the form of bank drafts; the accounts may not be credited with payments in the form of foreign bank notes (unless they have been declared to customs on entry), or with locally raised or locally earned funds (except in certain specified cases). External Accounts may be debited for any payments to residents, for transfers to other External Ac- counts, and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Transfers abroad from External Accounts in Yemeni dinars require the prior approval of the Exchange Control Department. The Foreign Ex- change Committee may direct any payment to a nonresident to a Blocked Account. Except with the Committee's prior approval, Blocked Accounts may be debited only for purchases of specified securities. Yemeni nationals working abroad may establish nonresident accounts in foreign currencies; bal- ances in these accounts earn interest and are con- vertible into foreign currency on demand. 539 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 540 PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of cars other than those needed for development proj- ects are also prohibited. All imports require individ- ual licenses. Goods originating in the Yemen Arab Republic are exempt from the licensing require- ments. There is an annual import program. Im- porters may import certain goods with their own exchange; such imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Supply. Pay- ments for imports on a c. & f. basis against letters of credit or documentary drafts can be made by autho- rized dealers without the prior approval of the Di- rector of Exchange Control; most other forms of payment for imports require approval. Insurance on imports must be effected locally. The National Company for Foreign Trade has a monopoly over imports of all consumer goods, with the exception of medical supplies and hospital equipment, which are handled by the National Company for Drugs. It is also the sole importer of automobiles and other vehicles, all government re- quirements, and most requirements of the public hospitals, as well as other specified items. Imports into and exports from the free port zones within the port of Aden are free of exchange and trade controls (except in respect of transactions between these zones and the rest of the People's Democratic Re- public of Yemen) and are exempt from customs du- ties, except that the proceeds of exports and re- exports financed originally by the authorized bank are subject to the surrender requirement (see sec- tion on Prescription of Currency, above). In all cases, exporters from the free zones are required to under- take to repatriate in convertible currencies commis- sions, profits, and other expenses relating to the processing of goods in the zones and to surrender the currencies to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. The "Induce- ment to Invest Law" divides foreign investments into two categories: (1) projects that realize self- sufficiency in their requirements for foreign cur- rency, which may remit net annual profits due on invested capital within the limit of the credit of their exports; and (2) projects of primary importance for the national economy, which may remit the whole of the annual net profits due on capital invested. Proj- ects that were set up prior to 1971 may remit all of their net profit. The basic exchange allowance for tourism is the equivalent of YD 100 a person a trip to all destina- tions other than the Yemen Arab Republic (the al- lowance for the Yemen Arab Republic is YRls 2,000); for children aged between 2 and 10 years, the basic exchange allowance is one half of these amounts. Allowances for medical treatment abroad are nor- mally granted in accordance with the amount esti- mated by the Ministry of Health. Allowances for other types of travel are granted on the merits of each application. Foreign employees of approved enterprises are allowed to remit abroad between 50 percent and 100 percent of their total earnings (net of taxes) according to the terms of the contract; other foreign employees, if receiving their salaries from abroad, are allowed to remit 70 percent of their total earn- ings. Nonnationals doing business in the country can remit abroad up to the equivalent of YD 50 a month for family maintenance. All insurance is na- tionalized; existing policies have been transferred to the National Insurance and Reinsurance Company, and payments abroad in respect of premiums are not permitted. Travelers may take out the equivalent of YD 5 in domestic bank notes and up to the equiv- alent of YD 125 in traveler's checks, foreign bank notes, or other foreign means of payment. Nonresi- dents may take out any foreign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are subject to individual licensing. All exports to Israel are prohibited. Except for ex- ports to neighboring countries specified by the For- eign Exchange Committee, export proceeds must be received in convertible currencies within six months of shipment and must be sold to authorized dealers upon receipt. Proceeds of exports or re- exports to neighboring countries may be surren- dered in the national currency of the importing country. Proceeds from Invisibles All claims of residents for services rendered to nonresidents must be collected in foreign currency (or received from an External Account) and surren- dered to the authorized dealer. Travelers may freely bring in foreign bank notes; imports of more than YD 5 in domestic currency are subject to a tax of 50 percent. Tourists are required to spend in foreign exchange an amount equivalent to YD 50 a month or US$10 a day if the duration of their stay is less than one month. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 542 Capital Virtually all capital payments and transactions require prior approval. Expatriates are normally permitted upon departure to remit their entire sav- ings to their country of permanent residence. For- eign investments that have been approved under the Inducement to Invest Law (enacted in 1981) may be granted exemptions from import duty and various other tax facilities. Five years af ter invest- ment, the net value of the enterprise (calculated on the basis of assignment, actual liquidation, or book value, whichever is least) is transferable at the rate of 25 percent a year; if, however, the owner of the Yemeni, Arab, or foreign capital encounters opera- tional difficulties, his capital may, upon approval, be retransferred to its place of origin one year after entry. This provision also applies to the reinvested part of such capital. Interest due on any loans ob- tained abroad after the firm concerned has been established may also be remitted, provided that all duties, taxes, and other government dues have been paid. Projects authorized under this law are exempt from income tax for up to five years from the com- mencement of production and may carry losses forward. Gold Only the monetary authorities and authorized dealers may purchase, hold, or sell gold bullion. Licensed goldsmiths may purchase, hold, and sell other unworked gold and gold coin and ornaments. Other residents may hold gold in the form of orna- ments or numismatic coins. Exports and imports of gold by registered goldsmiths require licenses is- sued by the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Supply (General Department for Foreign Trade); in certain cases, the consent of the Foreign Exchange Commit- tee must also be obtained. Departing female resi- dents may take out gold ornaments not exceeding 20 tolas,1 subject to registration in their passports. Ar- riving female nationals may bring in gold ornaments up to 25 tolas duty free and up to an additional 75 tolas after paying import duty at a rate of 30 percent. Arriving male nationals may bring in gold orna- ments up to 90 tolas, of which 10 tolas are duty free. Changes During 1988 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. ^ne tola is equal to 180 grains troy or 0.4114 ounce. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Yugoslavia is the Yugoslav Dinar. The authorities do not maintain the exchange rate of the dinar within announced margins. All transac- tions, other than those effected under the pro- cedures set forth for certain countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements (see section on Prescription of Currency, below), take place at an exchange rate adjusted from time to time by the authorities. The exchange rate for the U.S. dollar on December 30, 1988 was Din 5,210.8 per US$1; on the same date, the exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar for transactions on bilateral ac- counts was Din 4,950.22 per US$1. Rates are also quoted for certain other currencies.1 Administration of Control The Federal Assembly formulates the decision on foreign exchange policy of the country for each year; the projections of the balance of payments and the foreign exchange balance of Yugoslavia are compo- nent parts of this decision. The Federal Executive Council (FEC) prescribes the general provisions in respect of foreign trade and exchange operations. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Economic Rela- tions makes decisions governing certain foreign trade transactions and issues import and export li- censes and instructions when required. It is also charged with securing balanced trade with pay- ments agreement countries. The Federal Secretariat for Finance, the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and the National Banks of the republics and autono- mous provinces administer the exchange controls. The National Bank of Yugoslavia prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries. Foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through an authorized bank, of which there are two types: (1) fully authorized banks, which are permitted to engage in transactions with foreign countries and may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugoslavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations (including the granting of guarantees); and (2) banks that are authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep foreign exchange ac- counts abroad nor engage in foreign credit opera- tions, except through banks authorized to engage in foreign exchange transactions abroad. Authorized exchange offices may only purchase foreign bank notes and traveler's checks; this status is open to all commercial and savings banks. In addition, hotels and tourist agencies, if specifically authorized, may also purchase foreign bank notes and traveler's checks. Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic organizations (both producing and trading undertakings) registered for this purpose. Economic organizations that are not registered to conduct foreign trade channel their imports and exports through economic organizations that are authorized to engage in foreign trade transactions. Individual residents may not engage in foreign trade. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies, and according to the pro- cedures, set forth in these agreements. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requiring denomination of transactions in clearing U.S. dollars with Albania, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and the U.S.S.R. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may main- tain accounts denominated in foreign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules: foreigners resident outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies with fu l ly authorized banks in Yugoslavia; foreign mis- sions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may freely open accounts expressed in foreign curren- cies with any authorized bank. Foreign exchange accounts in convertible curren- cies of nonresident juridical and physical persons are kept in the currency deposited.2 Balances held Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese es- cudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and European Currency Units (ECUs). 2 Accounts may be denominated in any of the following curren- cies: Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 542 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA 543 in these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia, in dinars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any convertible currency. Transfers from these accounts are free if made in the currency in which the account is kept; outward transfers in other convertible currencies are subject to the bank holding the account being prepared to make the necessary conversion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilat- eral currencies may be opened only for certain for- eign juridical and physical persons resident in Yugoslavia. Balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugoslavia or for retransfer to the country to which the bilateral account is related. Foreign juridical and physical persons may in certain cases and under specified conditions open nonresident accounts in dinars with authorized banks. Such accounts can be credited freely with amounts whose transfer in convertible currency has been authorized. The possibility of using dinars from such accounts in Yugoslavia and the degree of transferability of the funds depend on the origin of the dinar deposits. Nonresident juridical and physical persons may also open other dinar accounts with authorized banks. These other accounts may be credited with dinars acquired in Yugoslavia in accordance with the existing regulations. Balances are, in principle, nontransferable and may be spent in Yugoslavia only for noncommercial payments by the account holder or by members of his immediate family, or by the owner and staff of foreign firms if the account holder is a foreign juridical person. If balances on these accounts derive from copyright royalties, from work performed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, from pensions, disability allowances, compensa- tions to persons decorated with the Order of the National Hero, or from alimony payments, transfers may be effected under specified conditions. Apart from this, foreign physical persons may keep convertible currencies on their foreign ex- change accounts or foreign exchange savings de- posits with authorized banks. These balances may be kept as sight or time deposits. Authorized banks pay interest on the balances on foreign exchange accounts and foreign exchange deposits of foreign physical persons either in foreign currencies or, at their request, in foreign currencies and dinars, or in dinars. Resident nationals may maintain foreign ex- change accounts or foreign exchange savings de- posits in convertible currencies with any authorized bank. These accounts may be credited with foreign currencies transferred f rom abroad, with interest paid in dinars, or kept in dinars or foreign exchange for foreign exchange accounts of Yugoslavs tem- porarily working abroad. Foreign exchange ac- counts may be retained indefinitely, and cash with- drawals from most banks are limited to US$250 for each trip on the basis of the regulation of the FEC. Other payments in Yugoslavia and abroad on behalf of the account holder or members of his immediate family can be made freely; balances are not transfer- able to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Yugoslav na- tionals residing abroad and former emigrants re- turning to Yugoslavia may also open foreign ex- change accounts in Yugoslavia, subject to the same limitations. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods may be effected by productive enterprises, either for their own requirements or for the requirements of their subcontractors, and by enterprises participating in foreign trade. More than 1,200 enterprises are registered as participants in foreign trade. For most commodities, import licenses are not required. All commodities included in the foreign trade nomenclature are classified into four catego- ries: LB —free; LBO—conditionally free; K —subject to quotas; and D —subject to ad hoc licensing. Goods in the LB category are mainly medicine, medical and hospital equipment, essential mate- rials for net exporting enterprises, spare parts for existing equipment not produced in Yugoslavia, crude oil, and certain pharmaceutical products. En- titlement to foreign exchange for the importation of goods in this category is automatic. The LBO category includes certain raw materials and intermediate goods (including nonmerchan- dise services). The ability of an enterprise to import items in this category depends on its export record. The computation of an enterprise's ability to import items in this category is undertaken by a commercial bank. Imports subject to quotas (K list) are some basic raw materials, part of ferrous and nonferrous met- als, textiles, essential agricultural products, and equipment produced in Yugoslavia but which should be protected. The quotas are globally set for each product (in value and volume terms) by the Federal Executive Council, and are allocated within the Yugoslav Chamber of the Economy. If enter- prises are unable to agree among themselves on the allocation, or if the allocation does not correspond to established principles, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Economic Relations is authorized to make ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 544 YUGOSLAVIA the distribution of imports among the enterprises concerned. Imports subject to licensing by the Federal Secre- tariat for Foreign Economic Relations (D list) include products whose importation is controlled by inter- national agreements for noneconomic reasons (e.g., arms, drugs, and narcotics, and historical and artis- tic work). Importation of these products is allowed on an individual basis and for specific purposes. Importation of certain goods from some countries, particularly from developing countries, is subject to an additional requirement of regional accordance issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Eco- nomic Relations. Imports from payments agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the rele- vant agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of funds in the appropriate clearing account. Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may use these funds freely to import goods for their own use or for the use of close relatives residing with them in accordance with rules govern- ing citizens' right to import and for purchases of domestically produced goods with dinars obtained by selling foreign exchange held in these accounts. Yugoslav nationals who have worked abroad at least two years continuously may import capital equipment necessary for performance of a legally permitted professional activity, provided that such equipment is imported within three years of the date of return, and that the value of each labor instrument is below Din 80 million. They may also freely import spare parts for maintenance of capital equipment. In addition, self-employed Yugoslav nationals may import intermediate goods necessary for performance of a legally permitted professional activity, up to the value of Din 21 million a year; this amount may be increased if the Yugoslav national in question employs other people. Yugoslav nationals may import motor vehicles through consignments if payment is made through a foreign exchange ac- count held at a Yugoslav bank; they may also import motor vehicles directly from abroad if they have spent at least two years abroad, provided that they return for permanent residence in Yugoslavia. In addition, they may import motor vehicles inherited abroad. Imports of motor vehicles are also permis- sible for military invalids or foreign nationals asking for permanent residence in Yugoslavia. A1 percent tax for customs evidence and a 10 per- cent tax equalization charge are payable on all com- modities not exempt from customs duty. Many agri- cultural commodities are subject to variable import levies. Returning resident travelers may bring in duty-free imports up to Din 200 a person. There are special facilities for full or partial exemption for pay- ment of customs duties on certain imports by Yugoslav workers returning from abroad. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to cover expenses abroad for export promotion is made freely available to export- ers. Payments for other invisibles in relation to pro- duction needs may be made on the same basis as conditionally free (LBO) import payments. Pur- chases of services abroad, as well as spare parts and fuel, by Yugoslav enterprises involved in interna- tional freight and passenger transportation are liberalized. There is no special exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. However, Yugoslav citizens are al- lowed to use freely balances from their foreign ex- change accounts and foreign exchange savings de- posits for tourist travel abroad. Under specified conditions, nonresident persons may e f fect the following payments abroad: pay- ments for improving labor relationships, pensions, disability allowances, and payments to recipients of an Order of the National Hero; alimony payments, payments for court-ordered compensations or in- demnities, the profits of foreign contractors per- forming capital construction work in Yugoslavia; and 10 percent of the proceeds from cultural, enter- tainment, sport, and other performances given by foreign groups or individuals. In addition, copy- right royalties are transferable abroad if such trans- fers are based on reciprocity. Payments in respect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are fully transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a country with which Yugoslavia maintains a bilateral payments arrangement, then such payment may be made only if the agreement in question provides for reciprocity. Transfers to convertible currency coun- tries of funds realized by nonresidents from selling property inherited in Yugoslavia can be effected on the basis of the approval of the Federal Secretariat for Finance under conditions of reciprocity in inheri- tances and in transfers. Authorized banks may sell foreign currency to residents for payment of specified medical treat- ment abroad, for remittances for court and other fees abroad, and for specified personal expenses on the basis of approval from the appropriate au- thorities in the republics and autonomous prov- inces. Not more than Din 150,000 in domestic cur- rency, in denominations of Din 5,000 or less, may be taken out by travelers on the first trip during the year; and not more than Din 100,000 a person may ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA 545 be taken out on subsequent trips during the same year. Foreign travelers may bring in and take out any amount in foreign exchange without declaring it. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange earned through exports of goods and services and other forms of economic cooperation with foreign countries must be sold to commercial banks immediately upon repatriation at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of sale. In principle, exports are free of control. Certain raw materials that are in short supply in the domes- tic market and certain other materials such as gun- powder, weapons, and narcotic drugs require ex- port licenses. Unless specifically exempted, proceeds from ex- ports must be repatriated. The normal period of repatriation is 60 days from the date of exportation. All foreign exchange earnings must be sold to fully authorized banks immediately upon repatriation. Proceeds from exports on credit must be repatriated within the period of time stipulated under the credit agreement. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within 60 days from the date on which the claim is payable. The performance of construction and engi- neering services is subject to approval ("accor- dance") by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Eco- nomic Relations. Exchange proceeds may be used for payments abroad connected with the activities of the economic organization concerned, including payments for purchases of equipment and other material for capital construction work abroad. The exchange proceeds are transferable to Yugoslavia within 60 days from work completion and must be sold to authorized banks. With specified exceptions, proceeds from services are subject to the same sur- render requirements and procedures as are pro- ceeds from exports of goods. Residents who, while employed abroad, depos- ited their savings in foreign savings banks and ob- tained a "bilingual savings book/7 issued under specific arrangements between Yugoslavia and for- eign banks, may withdraw their balances in the form of foreign exchange when in Yugoslavia. Resi- dents may hold interest-bearing foreign currency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be cred- ited with the full amount of a person's savings in foreign exchange. These accounts may be used for the personal needs of the account holder and of his immediate family; cash withdrawals are limited to US$250 for each trip; they are not transferable to other persons or accounts and may be retained indefinitely. Not more than Din 150,000 in Yugoslav bank notes, in denominations of Din 5,000 or less, may be brought in by travelers on the first trip during the year, and not more than Din 100,000 on subsequent trips during the same year. Capital The Organizations of Associated Labor and other social legal persons may borrow abroad in accor- dance with criteria established by the Law on For- eign Credit Relations of 1985 and with the general legislation established by the FEC. Foreigners may invest in Yugoslav economic or- ganizations but only through joint ventures. There is no limit on the share of foreign investment in the organization's capital. Profit transfers are permitted in proportion to the share of the foreign partner's contributions to the income generated on the basis of the resources invested and up to the amount of foreign currency earned by the joint venture from exports of goods and services. If the law governing joint ventures were to be amended, the legal provi- sions in force on the date of registration of a joint venture would continue to be applied during the entire life of the investment contract if the foreign investor so desires, or, at the latter's option, any more favorable provisions of the amended legisla- tion could be applied. Foreign firms are permitted to establish representational offices in Yugoslavia. The investment income earned abroad by Yugo- slav economic organizations must be repatriated within 60 days. Residents are obliged to repatriate foreign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Economic organizations wishing to participate in foreign enterprises may be allowed to export the necessary capital under special conditions set by federal law; approval for such capital should be ob- tained from the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Eco- nomic Relations, under the procedure specified by existing legislation. Access to foreign exchange for debt service pay- ments is automatic and receives priority over all other payments. Gold In 1968 the National Bank issued certain com- memorative gold coins, which are legal tender. For- eign travelers are freely permitted to import and export these coins, subject to customs declaration, and for exports, subject to proof that they have been purchased in Yugoslavia. Residents who are private ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 546 YUGOSLAVIA persons may hold gold coin in Yugoslavia but can- not export it except with the approval of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Such gold coin may be sold to any authorized bank, and residents may freely hold, purchase, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold in accordance with the existing reg- ulations on trade in goods and on control of articles made from precious metals. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as traders in gold may import gold jewelry under the K import regime; they may freely export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Au- thorized banks may freely export gold coin. Pro- ducers may export newly mined gold or sell it to specified users at home at the average price on the international gold market. Domestic sales of newly mined gold by the producers may be made at a price that equals the average quotation in free gold mar- kets abroad. Domestic economic organizations using gold for their normal activities may purchase gold from domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each such organization individually. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments May 27. Following a depreciation of the dinar by about 20 percent in real effective terms, the National Bank of Yugoslavia revoked the emergency provi- sions of Article 110 of The Foreign Exchange Law, which specified payments priorities under condi- tions of excess demand for foreign exchange, as well as the bank certificate requirement, which pre- scribed that holders of an import right cannot place an import order before having secured a guarantee from a commerical bank stating that foreign ex- change to cover the import would be made avail- able. A large number of goods were moved from the K import regime (subject to quotas) to the LB regime (free) and from the LBO regime (conditionally free) to the LB regime. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zaire is the Zaire. The official exchange rate of the zaire is freely determined in the interbank foreign exchange market, in which the Bank of Zaire (the central bank) participates. At a weekly meeting of the authorized banks under the chairmanship of the Bank of Zaire, the official fixing rate is determined on the basis of the buying and selling bids at which demand and supply are in equilibrium. The SDR equivalent of the fixing rate is then maintained during the following week. What- ever the weekly fixing rate is, commercial banks are free to negotiate the rates in their daily transactions among themselves and with their clients. On De- cember 31, 1988, the midpoint exchange rate of the zaire in the interbank market was Z 274.00 = US$1. The official exchange rates for the zaire against 20 currencies1 in which authorized banks (and other intermediaries) are permitted to deal are published daily by the Bank of Zaire; the rates for the zaire against these currencies are fixed daily by the Bank of Zaire on the basis of the SDR rates for these currencies, applying the SDR rate for the zaire that prevailed at the last weekly fixing. In addition to a commission charge of not more than 1 percent, for- eign exchange transactions between the authorized commercial banks and nonbank customers are sub- ject to an exchange control fee of 3 per mill, payable to the Bank of Zaire. There are no commission charges or exchange fees on foreign exchange trans- actions in the interbank market. Forward exchange transactions are permitted for a maximum period of 60 days with respect to trade, invisibles, and capital transactions under certain conditions. Administration of Control The Bank of Zaire has fu ll regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments, including dis- cretionary power to authorize residents to hold and use foreign exchange abroad and within Zaire. The Bank of Zaire may delegate this authority to certain bank or nonbank intermediaries. Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Bu rundi f rancs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, Rwanda francs, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. The Public Debt Management Office (OGEDEP), operating under the aegis of the Department of Finance and Budget, manages the medium- and long-term external and domestic public and pub- licly guaranteed debt, is responsible for its servic- ing, and advises the Executive Council on external debt policy, including terms and guarantees ex- tended by the Government on loans contracted by public, semipublic, and private enterprises. In prin- ciple, no new external borrowing may be contracted or guaranteed by the Government without the prior advice of OGEDEP and the Bank of Zaire. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents to residents must be made in one of the listed convertible currencies quoted daily by the Bank of Zaire (see footnote 1). Special authorization for the acceptance of any other currency may be given only in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Except for working balances, all currencies received must be converted into a convertible currency. Pay- ments to nonresidents from residents must be made in one of the listed convertible currencies or by crediting their nonresident convertible accounts. The Bank of Zaire maintains a bilateral payments agreement with the Central Bank of Angola. Settle- ments with the member countries of the Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL) (Burundi and Rwanda) and the member countries of the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC)2 are made through convertible accounts es- tablished under arrangements concluded by the Bank of Zaire with the central banks of the countries concerned. Balances on these convertible accounts at the end of settlement periods, which is a quarter for CEPGL countries and a month for the BEAC countries, are transferable into the currency stip- ulated by the creditor. Virtually all settlements (other than for re-exports) with the member coun- tries of the BEAC are effected through the Central African Clearing House (Chambre de Compensa- tion de TAfrique Centrale) through its account with the Bank of Zaire. 2Cameroon, Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. 547 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 548 ZAIRE Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident ac- counts: Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts (comptes de non-residents en devises), Nonresident Convertible Accounts (comptes etrangers convert- ibles), Nonresident Ordinary Accounts (comptes etrangers ordinaires), and Nonresident Special Ac- counts (comptes etrangers indisponibles). All nonresi- dent accounts are maintained as non-interest- bearing sight deposits, and no overdraft is permitted. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, as well as nonresident convertible and special accounts, can be opened without the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire at any authorized commercial bank. With a few exceptions, the opening of nonresident ordinary accounts requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire; such authorization is not re- quired when accounts are opened for embassies and other diplomatic missions (including those rep- resenting international and official multinational organizations), official civil and military missions, representative offices in Zaire of foreign transporta- tion companies, and nonresidents entitled to re- ceive payments in zaires for services rendered in Zaire under agreements with or approved by the Executive Council or the Bank of Zaire.3 Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be credited with foreign currency payments by resi- dents or nonresidents in the following cases: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) transfers of foreign currencies from nonresident convertible accounts; (3) foreign exchange proceeds resulting directly from arbitrage transactions; (4) inward transfers in foreign currencies from non- residents and f rom foreign exchange accounts held abroad; (5) payments in foreign currencies made by nonresidents; and (6) transfers in foreign currencies from other nonresident foreign currency accounts. Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be deb- ited freely for the following purposes: (1) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (2) sales of foreign currency to any authorized bank against zaires; (3) foreign exchange charges arising from arbitrage transactions of foreign currencies authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (4) outward transfers in foreign cur- rencies; (5) transfers to other nonresident foreign currency accounts; (6) withdrawals of bank notes or traveler's checks by the holder of such accounts; and (7) banking commissions and fees. 3Effective Janua ry 1, 1989, nonresident ordinary accounts may be opened w i thout the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire only by embassies and diplomatic missions, offices representing international and municipal organizations in Zaire, and offices representing foreign civilians or military cooperative programs. Nonresident Convertible Accounts may be credited with (1) spot purchases of domestic currency against foreign currencies on the interbank market; (2) transfers from other nonresident convertible ac- counts as well as from resident foreign currency accounts; and (3) payments by authorized commer- cial banks in connection with operations for which the Bank of Zaire authorizes those banks either to credit nonresident convertible accounts or to deliver foreign currency as stipulated by the exchange reg- ulation. These accounts may be freely debited for (1) payments to residents for operations other than exports of goods and services; (2) purchases at an authorized bank of foreign currencies or any other means of payment for travel expenses abroad; (3) transfers to other nonresident convertible ac- counts and purchases of bank notes or any other means of payment in zaires at any authorized com- mercial bank; and (4) banking commissions and fees. Nonresident Ordinary Accounts may be credited with (1) sales of foreign exchange against zaires, received as down payments or transferred from abroad; (2) transfers in zaires f rom nonresident con- vertible accounts; and (3) receipts in zaires from residents on account of services rendered in Zaire, property rentals, transportation fares, consular and chancery fees, and other services as specified by the Bank of Zaire at the time such accounts are opened. Nonresident ordinary accounts may be debited for (1) payments in zaires to residents on account of local purchases of goods and services, dues, taxes, and banking commissions and fees; (2) transfers to other nonresident ordinary accounts of the same holder; and (3) withdrawals of bank notes or any other means of payment in zaires. In addition, as- sets held in nonresident ordinary accounts are not transferable abroad, nor can they be transferred to nonresident convertible accounts. Nonresident Special Accounts can be opened for nonresidents entitled to receive specified payments on account of (1) sale or rent f rom real estate proper- ties and other fixed capital located in Zaire and owned by nonresidents; and (2) sale of businesses and goodwill, as well as shares in agricultural, com- mercial, industrial, and service companies located in Zaire and owned by nonresidents. In addition, all assets denominated in zaires and owned by non- Zairian residents permanently leaving Zaire must be deposited in or transferred to a Nonresident Spe- cial Account opened on behalf of or under the name of the respective persons, as must proceeds from the sale of real estate or the renting of fixed capital owned by non-Zairian residents who subsequently become nonresidents. Accounts under this cate- gory can be debited only for (1) travel expenses ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE 549 incurred by the holders of such accounts; (2) transfers to religious organizations or any non- profit cultural, philanthropic, or social organiza- tions; (3) banking commissions and fees; (4) local taxes payable to the Central Government of Zaire; (5) insurance and maintenance fees of fixed capital (including real estate properties); and (6) any other payment authorized by the Bank of Zaire. Resident Foreign Exchange Accounts Residents are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts at local commercial banks. These accounts may be credited with funds arising from capital transactions but not with receipts from exports of goods, services, or the prefinancing of such ex- ports.4 These accounts may be sight or term ac- counts, may bear interest, and may be denominated in any currency for which the Bank of Zaire pub- lishes exchange rates. Overdrafts on these accounts are not permitted. Deposits in these accounts may be used to meet virtually any foreign exchange obli- gation, including import payments, and funds may be transferred from one foreign exchange account to another. Existing regulatory and administrative provisions relating to imports are applicable to im- ports financed from these accounts. Any import payments permitting this method of payment (using Form I) may be made by debiting these ac- counts. The payment of royalties, merchandise transport costs, services, and capital retransfer to nonresidents out of these accounts may be made by obtaining Form V from authorized banks on the instruction of holders of these accounts who provide the supporting documents required under the ex- change regulations. Imports and Import Payments For account holders with required supporting documentation, Form I is not required for with- drawals to cover travel or living expenses abroad, medical expenses incurred or to be incurred abroad, educational or training expenses incurred or to be incurred abroad, and tickets for international travel. Importation of a number of goods, including mainly arms, explosives and ammunition, narcot- ics, materials contrary to public morals, certain al- coholic beverages, and equipment for aerial and maritime navigation is prohibited (or requires spe- 4There are, however, several exceptions. Companies in certain sectors are allowed to retain a portion of their foreign exchange earnings (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds) in such accounts. cial authorization from the Executive Council) on grounds of public policy. Most other imports are subject only to an import declaration at the autho- rized banks. In general, validated import declara- tions remain valid for 12 months; if an importer wishes a longer validity period, it must be indicated in the import documents accompanying the import declaration. The validity may be extended by the authorized banks if shipment has begun; extension of the validity period requires authorization from the Bank of Zaire if shipment has not begun. Im- ports of goods intended for expansion of capital base or for importer's own use may be effected without a declaration to an authorized bank, pro- vided that the value does not exceed SDR 5,000 and that they are financed by the importer's own resources. Payments for imports may be made either upon arrival or upon shipment (including payments up to 30 days from date of shipment). The mode of pay- ment must be indicated on all import declaration forms. Interest payments on foreign financing for imports are authorized only if the importer has ob- tained suppliers' credit or other form of foreign financing with a maturity of at least 90 days, and provided that no advance deposit in foreign cur- rency with the foreign correspondent of the autho- rized bank involved has been made. A detailed rec- ord of all financing charges is required to be submitted by the foreign correspondent to the do- mestic authorized bank and is used as a basic docu- ment to jus t i fy any payments of import financing charges. Financing charges are treated as invisible payments associated with the import transaction involved. Authorized banks are allowed to pay transportation and insurance costs in foreign cur- rency only on imports for which they pay on an f .o .b. basis. The amount, the invoice price, and the quality of all imports must be verified and found acceptable by the foreign agents of the Office Zairois de Controle (OzAc); however, verification may be effected upon arrival by establishing a guarantee. Importers are not required to submit to their banks the verification certificates delivered by OZAC (or any of its agents abroad) with respect to preship- ment controls for imports payable upon arrival with a value ( f .o .b .) of SDR 1,000 or less per tariff item, and SDR 5,000 or less per shipment. Prior approval of the Bank of Zaire is required for (1) imports transported by foreign air carriers with charges payable in foreign currency, if such costs exceed the f .o .b. value by 20 percent; (2) imports in the form of foreign contributions to capital intended for resale; (3) imports financed by suppliers' credits or other interest-bearing foreign financing with a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 550 ZAIRE maturity of more than one year, except imports con- tracted or guaranteed by the Government; and (4) imports requiring a down payment in foreign currency prior to shipment. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles must be made through an authorized bank. When the approval of the Bank of Zaire is required, it must be requested by the authorized banks concerned. The Bank of Zaire will not authorize the payment in foreign ex- change of commissions in favor of shippers or pur- chasing agents. Zairian freight must be handled exclusively by bonded shipowners whose freight charges have been authorized in advance by the Office Zairois de Gestion des Frets Maritimes. Banks may effect freight payments only on submis- sion of invoices by the shippers or their agents. Other payments relating to services performed by nonresidents are, in principle, permitted. However, outward remittances of salaries of expatri- ate employees are limited to the levels authorized during the preceding year. The transfer abroad of salaries of newly hired expatriates is limited to 50 percent of net salary, provided that the non- transferable amount is sufficient to meet local needs. Transfers pertaining to certain administra- tive expenses that firms incur abroad, interest on private loans, and payment of certain portions of insurance premiums are generally permitted. Transfers of net profits of firms with foreign par- ticipation are authorized. Transfers of nonresidents' rental income are suspended. Payments for com- missions, brokerage charges and miscellaneous fees, and royalties may be authorized in some cases. Tickets for travel abroad may be purchased in zaires for trips starting in Zaire. Zairian nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange in amounts that depend on the duration of the journey and the status of the traveler. Zairian nationals re- siding in Zaire are allowed to purchase foreign ex- change at the authorized commercial banks to cover the following expenses: travel, medical treatment, students' tuition and living costs, and training abroad. For trips to Burundi and Rwanda, tourists and households residing in the border area are en- titled to purchase once a month the equivalent of SDR 100 in Burundi or Rwanda francs. The import of Zairian notes, coin, and other Zairian means of payment, by both residents and nonresidents, is prohibited. However, the import of such means of payment by travelers from Burundi and Rwanda is authorized within the limits of the agreements between the members of the CEPGL. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports not covered by general declarations require individual declarations. Banks are normally authorized to validate such declarations. The dec- laration must specify the nature of the merchan- dise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Declarations of foreign exchange commitment are normally valid for 90 days; the export proceeds must be received and surrendered within this period. Unless other- wise provided, export proceeds must be received within 45 days. Coffee may be exported only by recognized coffee exporters; such exports are sub- ject to quality control. Special provisions apply to mineral production of the Generate des Carrieres et des Mines du Zaire, which is authorized to retain 45 percent of its net export proceeds with banks abroad or in Zaire for meeting its own payments abroad and must surrender the remainder to the Bank of Zaire. Partial nonrepatriation and retention abroad are also permitted for a limited number of other enter- prises, including the Societe de Developpement In- dustriel et Minier du Zaire (65 percent) and the Societe Miniere de Bakwanga (MIBA—20 percent), and full retention of export receipts in accounts abroad is permitted for a number of other enter- prises, including the oil corporations. The trade of artisanal gold and diamonds is, in principle, free, with exports being channeled through authorized marketing agencies (comptoirs agrees). Authorized exporters of gold are allowed to retain 30 percent of their export receipts in resident foreign exchange accounts. Industrial diamonds are sold through the De Beers Group. Minimum export prices have been established for coffee, cocoa, tea, ivory, papain, rauwolfia, and cinchona. The export of Zairian notes and coin and other Zairian means of payment is prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Authorized banks may retain all their foreign ex- change receipts f rom invisibles on the same basis as their export receipts. Travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes or other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, provided that they are declared to immigration upon entering Zaire. Declaration of means of payment denominated in foreign currency is not required upon departure. Capital The repatriation of foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE 551 permitted only at the time of liquidation; the trans- fer of profits and dividends from such capital is guaranteed. The net foreign currency position of authorized banks is not permitted to exceed 40 per- cent of their own resources. production artisanale) were allowed to retain a cer- tain percentage of their export receipts in resident foreign exchange accounts. During September 1- December 31, 1988, this percentage was set at 30 percent. Gold Only Zairian nationals are allowed to purchase, transport, sell, or hold gold within Zaire, outside the boundaries of areas covered by exclusive mining concessions. Foreign individuals or corporate per- sons and corporate persons under Zairian law may do so only on behalf of and for account of authorized marketing agencies. With the exception of jewelry, imports and exports of gold require prior authoriza- tion from the Bank of Zaire. Some of the gold pro- duced by mining companies is purchased by the Bank of Zaire under agreed terms. The Bank of Zaire may authorize part of the gold produced by these companies to be sold to residents for their industrial activities. There is free trade in domestic gold mined by small-scale producers. Changes During 1988 Exports and Export Proceeds September 1. Recognized exporters of gold (les Comptoirs d'achat et de commercialisation d'or de Capital February 19. Ceilings were placed on commercial banks7 net foreign asset position. Banks that exceed their ceiling were subject to daily fines of 0.2 percent of the excess, with a minimum fine of Z 5,000 up to a maximum of Z 100,000. Fines double daily until foreign asset positions are brought back under the ceilings. In addition, banks that exceed their ceil- ings must surrender the zaire equivalent of the ex- cess to the Bank of Zaire. As soon as the net position is brought below the ceiling, the amounts surren- dered will be returned. June 3. Regulations concerning resident foreign exchange accounts were liberalized. In general, any person receiving foreign exchange from capital transactions (e.g., direct investment) may open a resident foreign exchange account. Funds on these accounts may be used to finance imports, subject to current regulatory and administrative provisions concerning imports and services, including foreign travel, education, or medical treatment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha, for which the intervention currency is the U.S. dol- lar. The exchange rate of the kwacha was pegged to the SDR at K 13.4115 per SDR 1 on November 9, 1988. Most of the foreign exchange allocations are made by the Foreign Exchange Management Com- mittee (FEMAC) on the basis of predetermined pri- orities. Other transactions through the "no-funds- involved" licenses and the export retention scheme require approval by the Committee. The Bank of Zambia deals with the Government and with authorized banks in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and other convertible currencies. Autho- rized banks are free to deal in other currencies at rates based on daily rates provided by the Bank of Zambia, or on the basis of cross rates with the U.S. dollar prevailing in international foreign exchange markets. In its dealings with the commercial banks, the Bank of Zambia applies a margin of 0.25 percent for purchases and sales of foreign exchange. On December 30, 1988, the Bank of Zambia's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were K 9.95438 = US$1 and K 10.15447 = US$1, respectively. Au- thorized banks are permitted to charge an addi- tional 1 percent on either side for transactions by telegraphic transfers, and 1.25 percent for sales and purchases of foreign currency notes, when quoting their rates to customers. There are no arrangements for forward cover against exchange rate risk operat- ing in the official or the commercial banking sector. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minis- ter of Finance. The control of trade is the responsi- bility of the Ministry of Commerce, which also is- sues import and export licenses. Overall import policy is formulated by the Ministerial Committee on Foreign Exchange. Allocation of foreign ex- change, however, is made by FEMAC. Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of other countries may be made in any foreign cur- rency. Payments from residents of other countries may be received in pounds sterling or in Zambian currency from an External Account, or in any for- eign currency freely exchangeable for U.S. dollars or pounds sterling. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held with autho- rized banks by residents of other countries are des- ignated Nonresident Accounts.1 These accounts may be credited with authorized payments from residents of Zambia, with transfers from other Non- resident Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for pay- ments for any purpose to residents of Zambia, for transfers to other Nonresident Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency from dealers with prior exchange control permission. Blocked Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized dealers in foreign exchange by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Zambian currency. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, except that the accounts of emigrants may be debited each year for the permitted anniversary al- lowance for a remittance to the country of residence of the account holder. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances on Blocked Accounts in Zambian securities, provided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely trans- ferable to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain specified products are pro- hibited for reasons of health, safety, or public policy. Personal and household effects, samples, diplo- matic shipments, and means of transportation en- tering Zambia temporarily do not require individ- ual import licenses, nor do any other goods for personal use and consumption, provided that the person importing them does not import more than K 10,000 worth of such goods in any period of 90 days. However, no foreign exchange is made available for goods not licensed, even where the Authorized banks are required to obtain prior permission from the exchange control authorities before designating any new External Account, except when the account is to be opened for a temporary visitor. 552 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 553 value is less than K 10,000. The Controller of Customs is authorized to admit emergency goods imported without prior reference to the Ministry of Commerce. All other imports require individual im- port licenses. Import licenses are issued in accordance with the priorities established by FEMAC; a fee amounting to 5 percent of the value of the imported goods is levied on licenses for imports from nonmember countries of the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA). Importers must obtain foreign exchange by submitting an applica- tion to FEMAC before import licenses can be issued. Subsequently, the commercial banks will open usance letters of credit, and all financial arrange- ments between importers and foreign suppliers for the supply of goods on credit must be approved by the Bank of Zambia. Importers intending to import goods not involving use of official foreign exchange must obtain the prior approval of FEMAC before ap- plying to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry for a no-funds-involved import license. The Bank of Zambia does not approve payments for imports un- less a satisfactory report regarding preshipment in- spection is issued by international agencies. The commercial banks are required to submit to the Bank of Zambia a weekly return on letters of credit opened, giving specified information. Most imported goods are subject to a sales tax of 15 percent of taxable value, which is calculated on the basis of 125 percent of the customs value, plus the applicable customs duty. Payments for Invisibles Payments in foreign exchange for freight and other related charges on imports require the ap- proval of the Bank of Zambia before application can be made to FEMAC for allocation of foreign exchange. The basic allowance for business travel is US$225 a person a day for up to 14 days a calendar year; foreign exchange for this purpose must have the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel is not granted. Travel allowance of US$50 a trip is granted to children returning to schools overseas. Al- lowances for education and medical treatment abroad may be granted by the Bank of Zambia. Remittances abroad of part or all of payments for advertising, management, accounting, administra- tive, engineering, and consulting services rendered to residents by nonresidents must be made by using foreign exchange authorized by FEMAC after prior approval has been granted by the Bank of Zambia. Profits and dividends of subsidiaries and branches of companies whose head offices are situated out- side Zambia may be transferred abroad up to 15 percent of the nonresident share of the equity capital, or 50 percent of net profits accruing to the nonresident owners of incorporated companies, whichever is smaller, with foreign exchange ob- tained through FEMAC. Expatriate farmers are per- mitted to remit 12.5 percent of their after-tax profits, including profits earned from a partnership or pri- vate limited company engaged in farming. A fur- ther 10 percent may be held to their credit every year for eventual remittance when they leave Zambia. Such remittances are allowed once a year after the end of the accounting year. Airlines that do not land in Zambia are not allowed to remit funds abroad, except for those funds already accumulated in Zambia. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia may remit up to the equivalent of US$4,260 a year in monthly installments as an "inducement allowance." In ad- dition, they may remit an end-of-contract gratuity of up to 25 percent of the cumulative inducement al- lowances. The payments of expatriates employed by the the Zambian Consolidated Mining Company (ZCCM) are made from their own allocations of foreign exchange, whereas all other inducement payments are to be made from the working balances of commercial banks. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these arrangements are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, and maintenance; their leave salary, gratuity, and other terminal benefits are transferable only on comple- tion of the contract period as part of their emigration allowance. Travelers leaving Zambia may take out a maximum of K 10 in Zambian currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over K 10,000 require a li- cense, except those covered by an open general license; minerals are exported under general agree- ments with the mining companies. Exports of cer- tain metals are reserved, in principle, for an official agency, the Metal Marketing Corporation. Exports of certain products are prohibited to ensure domes- tic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials, such as implements of war, lead in any form, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, maize, wheat, and ju te bags. For most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be surrendered to the Bank of Zambia within one month of receipt; the ZCCM credits its export proceeds to a Bank of Zam- bia account in London upon receipt and is allocated ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 554 ZAMBIA an amount judged necessary to meet its own for- eign exchange needs. All exports must be financed through irrevocable letters of credit and be registered with the Bank of Zambia. Prior approval of the Bank of Zambia is required for all exports whose methods of payment are different from those mentioned above. As an export incentive, up to 50 percent of nontraditional export proceeds may be used by the exporter. However, all such export receipts must be surren- dered in full to the Bank of Zambia by commercial banks, and exporters must apply to FEMAC for real- location of the same for their import financing requirements. Nonnational agricultural producers are eligible for certain incentives in the form of foreign ex- change, on the basis of every standard bag of maize, wheat, soybean, or tobacco sold by them in excess of the prescribed number of bags. Corresponding for- eign exchange incentives for national agricultural producers are made available on application to the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, except that trav- elers from Zaire are allowed to import only up to the equivalent of K 20. Travelers arriving in Zambia may bring in a maximum of K 10 in Zambian currency. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, but all borrowings, including overseas short-term fi- nancing of imports other than certain capital goods, outside Zambia require the approval of the ex- change control authorities. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are nor- mally permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Zambia. The repatriation is generally spread over a period longer than three years. Local borrowing by companies controlled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is restricted to a debt-equity ratio of 1 to 3. However, the Bank of Zambia permits borrowings in excess of this limit for certain priority sectors of the economy, provided that the borrowings secure higher employment opportunities or savings of for- eign exchange. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are re- quired to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange accruing to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Zam- bian securities quoted on recognized stock ex- changes abroad, provided that the securities so ac- quired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that, in the event of subsequent dis- posal of these securities, the sales proceeds will be repatriated. All income earned from these invest- ments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted foreign exchange as fol- lows: (1) settling-in allowance of the equivalent of K 6,000 for a single person, K 8,000 for a married couple, K 12,000 for persons aged 50 years and over, and K 500 a child up to a maximum of four children; and (2) anniversary allowance of the equivalent of K 3,000 for a single person, K 6,000 for a married couple, and K 7,500 for persons aged 50 years and over. In addition, there are special facilities for ex- patriate farmers for the transfer of profits up to certain limits (see section on Payments for Invis- ibles, above). Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange con- trol approval as well as import or export licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold-bearing sludge is ex- ported by copper companies for refining and sale abroad. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may be provided with the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes During 1988 Exchange Arrangement November 9. The kwacha was devalued by 25 percent in foreign currency terms and the ex- change arrangement was changed from the U.S. dollar to the SDR peg at the rate of K 13.4115 per SDR 1. The U.S. dollar would remain the interven- tion currency. December 20. It was announced that exchange losses on certain outstanding arrears resulting from the November 9 exchange rate adjustment would not be borne by the Government; losses arising from previous exchange rate adjustments, however, would continue to be covered by the Government. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 555 Administration of Control June 27. Authorized dealers were required to re- port to the Bank of Zambia on a monthly basis all inward remittances received in foreign exchange by foreign embassies/legations/consulates and officials of UN organizations or agencies for their expenses, as well as the particulars of the balances held in their external accounts. Authorized dealers were also re- quired to report monthly to the Bank of Zambia the inward remittances received by missionary, re- ligious, charitable, educational, or other nongovern- ment organizations, operating in Zambia on a non- profit basis. Prescription of Currency November 2. All intra-PTA exports were required to be invoiced in Zambian kwacha or the Unit of Account of PTA (UAPTA), and all service payments including PTA-related contributions were required to be settled through the PTA Clearing House. Payments for Invisibles January 1. Traveler's checks in UAPTA began to be issued for all travel to the member countries of PTA. October 17. The business travel allowance was raised to US$225 a day for a maximum period of 14 days in any calendar year. Proceeds from Invisibles May 19. All inward foreign exchange received by authorized dealers was required to be sold to the Bank of Zambia. For purposes of meeting working balances, the Bank of Zambia would make available sufficient foreign exchange to authorized dealers on a fortnightly basis or when demand arises. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position on December 32, 1988) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe Dol- lar. The exchange rate of the Zimbabwe dollar is determined on the basis of a fixed relationship to a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The spread applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe between the buying and selling rates is 0.8 percent for major currencies and 1.0 percent for other currencies. An additional 0.25 percent on either side of the quoted rates of major currencies may be charged by authorized dealers (authorized commercial and merchant banks). The authorized dealers base their rates for other currencies on current international market rates. On December 30,1988, the buying and selling rates were US$0.5095 and US$0.5055, respectively, per Z$l. Forward exchange contracts are permitted only for trade transactions. There is no limit on the amount of such contracts, but these must be limited to periods of three to six months. The Reserve Bank is prepared to cover forward transactions and, at present, quotes fixed discount or premium rates for major currencies. The Reserve Bank purchases for- eign exchange at the spot preferential telex transfer rate quoted to authorized dealers, less 0.35 percent for three-month contracts and an additional 0.10 percent for each month beyond three months up to 0.65 percent for a six-month contract. Sales of foreign exchange take place at the spot preferential telex transfer rate plus 0.65 percent for three-month contracts and an additional 0.30 percent for each month up to 1.55 percent for a six-month contract. Authorized dealers are expected to quote to their customers their own telex transfer (sight rates plus or minus the margins applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe). Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank, under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance, Economic Planning, and Development under the Exchange Control Act, Chapter 170, and the Exchange Control Regulations of 1977. Autho- rized dealers have been empowered to approve cer- tain foreign exchange transactions in accordance with Exchange Control Instructions Issued to Au- thorized Dealers (July 1, 1981, as amended) and Exchange Control Circulars, issued periodically. Import and export controls are administered in ac- cordance with the Control of Goods (Import and Export) (Agriculture) Regulations of 1965, as amended; the Control of Goods (Import and Export) (Commerce) Regulations of 1974, as amended; the Control of Goods (Export of Minerals and Metals) Order, 1979; the Control of Goods (Open General Import License) Notice of 1979; and the Control of Goods (Open General Export License) Notice, 1977. Prescription of Currency All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in denominated currencies,1 with the exception of payments otherwise specified or effected through nonresident accounts. Under the Clearing House Agreement, which went into effect on February 1, 1984, within the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States (PTA), residents of member countries can use na- tional currencies in day-to-day payments during a transaction period of two calendar months; the monetary authorities settle net balances at the end of this period in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be opened with the approval of the exchange control authorities by per- sons who have never been residents of Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be credited with foreign currencies, with payments from other nonresident accounts, or with payments by residents that would be eligible for transfer outside Zimbabwe. Nonresi- dent accounts may be debited for payments to resi- dents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for payments abroad. Only former residents now residing outside Zimbabwe may maintain emi- grants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets held in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be 1 There are 17 denominated currencies that are freely convert- ible through authorized dealers: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South Afri- can rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 556 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 557 blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and from these accounts are strictly subject to various exchange restrictions. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of a few products covered by the Open General Import License (OGIL), all im- ports are subject to licensing requirements. Import licenses are issued only against a certificate of for- eign exchange allocation. Global foreign exchange allocations are decided by an Interministerial Com- mittee, chaired by the Ministry of Finance, Eco- nomic Planning, and Development, and are made available through the Ministry of Trade and Com- merce and the Ministry of Industry and Technology. The Ministry of Trade and Commerce basically han- dles allocations for goods in the commercial cate- gory, and those in the industrial category are han- dled by the Ministry of Industry and Technology. Imports in the commercial category include im- ports by merchants of raw materials, machinery, and spare parts for resale to manufacturers and the public sector, as well as consumer goods; those in the industrial category consist of direct importation by industrialists of raw materials, machinery, and spare parts. For purposes of allocating commercial imports, individual products are classified into five categories in accordance with the degree of essen- tiality. (In the manufacturing sector, because of em- ployment considerations, similar priority ratings are not so strictly applied.) Foreign exchange is allo- cated to individual commercial importers for single tariff items (with facilities for a limited degree of transferability between items), whereas foreign ex- change allocated to manufacturers is for a group of tariff items appropriate to the industrial division concerned. Manufacturers receive through the Ministry of Industry and Technology separate allocations for raw materials required for production for the local and export markets; the former is assessed on the basis of priority and foreign exchange availability, and the latter is in the form of initial allocations based on past performance, with possible addi- tional allocation from an export revolving fund against proof of exports. Industrial exporters may also receive a supplementary allocation, deter- mined on the basis of their incremental export per- formance, to import raw materials to be used in production for the domestic market. Export- oriented mining and agricultural firms may obtain supplemental allocations under the export promo- tion programs. Import licenses have to be drawn against foreign exchange allocation certificates at the time orders are placed. The normal validity of import licenses is 12 months from the end of the month of issue, but the validity period can be extended in certain cir- cumstances. Import licenses are normally issued without geographical restriction, and importers are free to choose the country of supply. Licenses are issued on an f .o.b. basis and do not, therefore, cover the invisibles element of the transactions. Imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Certain agri- cultural products (coffee, maize, sorghum, soy- beans, and wheat) may be imported only by the Grain Marketing and Cotton Marketing Boards or by others with the permission of the Boards. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied to certain agricultural products. Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, provided necessary documentation (including the details of import licenses or open general licenses) is submit- ted. Payments for imports into Zimbabwe from all countries may be made in Zimbabwean currency to a local nonresident account or in any foreign currency. The customs duty regime consists mainly of ad valorem duties, which range up to 35 percent of the c . i .f. value, and specific duties on a number of prod- ucts. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax of l2l/2 percent to 20 percent, equivalent to the sales taxes imposed at the same rates on goods sold domestically. Most imports are subject to a surtax of 20 percent. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports and, within certain limits for other pur- poses, is provided by commercial banks under dele- gated authority. Applications for foreign exchange exceeding the limit established for commercial banks are approved by the Reserve Bank, which deals with each case on its merits. The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel is Z$60 a day, up to a maximum of Z$450 for a 12-month period. (Children under 10 years are en- titled to one half of these amounts.) The allowance may be accumulated up to three years, but it is not granted in advance. A husband and wife may pool their allowances up to Z$900, which can be used for the import of items under the OGIL. A tax of 20 per- cent is applied on sales of foreign exchange for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 558 ZIMBABWE purposes of holiday travel. The basic foreign ex- change allowance for import-related business travel is Z$100 a day, up to a maximum of Z$l,500 a trip, with an overall annual maximum of Z$3,000; for export-related business travel, the exchange al- lowance is Z$125 a day, for a maximum of Z$2,000 a trip and an annual limit of Z$4,000. Applications for business travel allowance exceeding the specified limits are subject to the approval of the Reserve Bank. Foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secondary school level within the following limits: Z$4,000 a year for education at universities other than those in the United States and the United Kingdom, and Z$10,000 a year for education at specified universities in the United States and the United Kingdom. For medical treat- ment, foreign exchange is provided up to Z$20 a day for a maximum period of 30 days for the patient and any necessary accompanying companion. Remit- tances of up to Z$40 for subscriptions to religious and educational societies, and Z$20 for other so- cieties are allowed; the limit for an initial member- ship fee is Z$50. Remittances to close relatives permanently resident outside Zimbabwe, not ex- ceeding Z$30 a month for each individual benefici- ary and Z$60 a month for each family unit, are permitted with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Outward remittances in respect of fees for techni- cal, administrative, management, and consultancy services, or to defray external expenses of local branches are subject to a tax of 20 percent. Previously blocked funds, whether already con- verted into government bonds or not, can qualify as new venture capital if they are reinvested in Zim- babwe in an approved project and matched by an inflow of investment funds of between zero and 50 percent of the reinvested blocked funds, as deter- mined by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe. As new venture capital, the total investment will be eligible to be remitted as dividends for up to 50 percent of after-tax profits. However, the "blocked" portion of the new investment, unlike new venture capital, must remain reinvested in Zimbabwe for a mini- mum of five years or more, depending on individual cases. Applications for emigrant status must be submit- ted to the Reserve Bank. Beginning from March 27, 1984, the settling-in allowance that can be remitted abroad by emigrants is limited to Z$l,000 a family unit. In exceptional and deserving cases, the ex- change control authorities will consider applications exceeding this maximum. Beginning from April 1, 1984, all those applying for emigrant status have been required to take steps to liquidate their assets within six months and to invest the total proceeds, less any settling-in allowance granted, in 4 percent, 12-year Government of Zimbabwe external bonds. In exceptional cases of emigrants unable to comply with the six-month limit, the matter may be referred to the Reserve Bank. Before these changes, transfer- able allowances at the time of emigration were as follows: (1) single persons under the age of 40 years, Z$500; (2) single persons aged 40-59 years, Z$l,000; (3) family units and single persons with dependents (under 60 years of age), Z$l,000; (4) family units (husband over 60 years of age) and single persons over 60, Z$7,000; (5) persons over 80 years of age, Z$10,000; (6) widows (no age restriction), Z$10,000; and (7) handicapped or disabled persons, Z$10,000. A fur ther release of capital was authorized as an annual allowance on each anniversary date of the emigrant's departure, as follows: persons over 65 years of age, Z$2,000; and persons over 70 years of age, Z$3,000. Travelers leaving Zimbabwe may take out, as part of the travel allowance, not more than Z$20 in Zim- babwean currency together with a maximum of the equivalent of Z$20 in foreign bank notes. Nonresi- dent travelers may take out the traveler's checks they brought in less the amount sold to authorized dealers. Upon departure from Zimbabwe, nonresi- dent travelers may reconvert unspent Zimbabwean currency into foreign currencies on presentation of exchange certificates. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required to export certain products that are not covered by the Open General License System; these include (1) any ore, concentrate, or other manufactured product of chrome, copper, lithium, nickel, tin, or tungsten; (2) petroleum prod- ucts; (3) ju te and hessian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carrying liquids or semiliquids; (5) bitumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) wild animals and wild animal products; (7) certain wood products; (8) ammonium nitrate; and (9) implements of war. In addition to security and social reasons, export licensing requirements are intended to ensure ade- quate domestic supply of essential products. Goods may not be exported without permission, unless the customs authorities are satisfied that pay- ment has been made in an approved manner or will be so made within three months of the date of shipment or such longer period as may be permitted by the Reserve Bank. Payments for exports must be received in the following manner: (1) in a denomi- nated currency; (2) in Zimbabwean currency from a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE 559 nonresident account; and (3) in the case of Malawi and Botswana, by checks drawn in Malawi kwacha or Botswana pula, respectively. Under the PTA ar- rangement (see section on Prescription of Currency, above), member countries can use national curren- cies in the settlement of payments during a transac- tion period of two months, with net balances at the end of this period to be settled in convertible curren- cies. Exports to some 50 countries are approved only upon advance payment of export proceeds or if pay- ment is covered by an irrevocable letter of credit issued or confirmed prior to export by a reputable overseas bank. Export receipts must be sold to au- thorized dealers. Since August 1,1984, an export subsidy at the rate of 9 percent of the f .o.b. value has been granted on specified exports of nontraditional products with a minimum domestic value added of 25 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to autho- rized banks within a reasonable period of time. Res- idents performing professional services abroad are not permitted to retain any part of their foreign exchange earnings, and such earnings are required to be sold to an authorized bank. Foreign currency and traveler's checks may be imported without re- strictions but must be sold or exchanged in Zim- babwe only through authorized dealers. A traveler may bring in Zimbabwean currency up to a max- imum of Z$20. Capital Inward transfers of capital through normal bank- ing channels are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but all foreign investments, irrespective of their source, that are undertaken through normal banking chan- nels since September 1,1979 may be considered for repatriation after two years, subject to the require- ment that the amount to be repatriated will be re- duced by any profits remitted in the interim. Where such authority is granted, the balance may be trans- ferred only through the established medium of six- year external government bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year. The repatriation of capital invested before Sep- tember 1,1979 is prohibited; however, shareholders are allowed within limits to apply to the Reserve Bank for the remittance of such capital upon the sale of shares to local residents, and if such application is approved, the capital is invested in external govern- ment bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year and carrying a maturity of 12 years in the case of individuals, or 20 years in the case of firms.2 Beginning from March 27,1984, former residents holding blocked assets and new emigrants are al- lowed to invest their funds in Government of Zim- babwe external bonds with a maturity of 12 years and an annual interest rate of 4 percent. The remit- tability of the Zimbabwean pension of a former resi- dent is guaranteed under the Constitution. All other outward transfers of capital are subject to approval by the Reserve Bank, as are dealings in external securities. Gold The export of gold in unmanufactured form is controlled and licensed under the Control of Goods (Export of Minerals and Metals) Order, 1979. The administration of the Order is the responsibility of the Ministry of Mines. No person may export any precious metal and certain other specified metals and minerals unless he holds an export license; no such licenses for gold are issued. These controls do not, however, apply to the Reserve Bank. The im- port of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Act, which provides for certain requirements to be met when a person intends to import gold into Zimbabwe. No person, either as principal or agent, is entitled to deal in or possess gold unless (1) he is the holder of a license or permit; (2) he is the holder or distribu- tor of a registered mining location from which gold is being produced; or (3) he is the employee or agent of any of the persons mentioned in (1) and (2) above, and is authorized by his employer or principal to deal in or possess gold in the lawful possession of such employer or principal. A mining commissioner may issue to any person a permit authorizing him to acquire or to be in possession of or to dispose of any gold, provided the quantity does not exceed 1 troy ounce. In all other cases, permission can be issued only by the Secretary for Mines. Three types of licenses may be issued under the terms of the Gold Trade Act: a gold dealing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assaying license. Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe, Ltd. is the only authorized dealer under the terms of the Act, and each holder or distributor of a registered mining location is re- quired to lodge with this bank all gold acquired by him in the course of his operations by the tenth day of the month following that in which the gold was produced. When a person intends to smelt any gold 2Effective January 20, 1989, repatriation at accelerated rates, depending on discounted sales prices of net equity, is allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 560 ZIMBABWE or any article containing gold, he must first obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Second Hand Goods Act authorizing him to be in possession of smelting equipment. Changes During 1988 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The basis of customs tariffs was changed from f.o.b. to c .i .f. value of imports. Payments for Invisibles June 1. Husband and wife may accumulate tourist travel allowances up to Z$900 and import goods on the OGIL list. Such allowances can no longer be used to import motor vehicles, motorcycles, photo- copiers, telex and fax machines, cash registers, or computers and office typewriters, and goods that are imported under this arrangement may not be sold within 12 months of importation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution European Economic Community: Antidumping Duties, Countervailing Charges, and Import Surveillance Measures Introduced or Eliminated on an EEC-Wide Basis During 1988 APPENDIX Antidumping Duties 1. Introduction January 18. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of electronic typewriters orig- inating in Japan (Regulation No. 154/88). January 20. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on imports of certain iron and steel coils originating in Algeria, Mexico, and Yugo- slavia (Regulation No. 163/88/ECSC). (Regulation No. 979/88/ECSC modified these duties.) January 25. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on imports of certain iron and steel sheets and plates originating in Yugoslavia (Regulation No. 229/88/ECSC). (Regulation No. 980/88/ECSC modified these duties.) February 4. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on imports of potassium permanganate originating in the People's Republic of China (Reg- ulation No. 360/88). March 15. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on imports of oxalic acid originating in Taiwan Province of China and the Republic of Korea (Regulation No. 699/88). April 18. Antidumping duties imposed on certain electronic scales assembled in the EEC were ex- tended (Regulation No. 1021/88). April 25. Definitive antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of roller chains for cycles originat- ing in the People's Republic of China (Regulation No. 1198/88). May 11. Provisional antidumping duties on im- ports of certain iron and steel sheets and plates originating in Yugoslavia were extended (Regula- tion No. 1321/88/ECSC). May 11. Provisional antidumping duties on im- ports of certain iron and steel coils originating in Algeria, Mexico, and Yugoslavia were extended (Regulation No. 1322/88/ECSC). May 17. Provisional antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of serial-impact dot-matrix print- ers originating in Japan (Regulation No. 1418/88). (Regulation No. 2943/88 of September 23 extended these duties.) May 31. Definitive antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of potassium permanganate orig- inating in the People's Republic of China (Regula- tion No. 1531/88). June 14. Provisional antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of polyester yarn originating in Mexico, the Republic of Korea, Taiwan Province of China, and Turkey (Regulation No. 1695/88). June 14. Provisional antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of synthetic polyester fibers orig- inating in Mexico, Romania, Taiwan Province of China, Turkey, the United States, and Yugoslavia (Regulation No. 1696/88). June 21. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on imports of paracetamol originating in the People's Republic of China (Regulation No. 1745/88). July 5. Provisional antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of serial-impact fully-formed- character printers originating in Japan (Regulation No. 2005/88). (Regulation No. 3451/88 of Novem- ber 4 extended these duties.) July 11. Definitive antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of oxalic acid originating in Tai- wan Province of China and the Republic of Korea (Regulation No. 2089/88). July 18. Definitive antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of certain iron and steel sheets and plates originating in Yugoslavia (Regulation No. 2131/88/ECSC). July 18. Definitive antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of certain iron and steel coils originating in Algeria, Mexico, and Yugoslavia (Regulation No. 2131/88/ECSC). July 20. Provisional antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of certain iron and steel sections originating in Yugoslavia and Turkey (Regulation No. 2158/88/ECSC). July 29. Provisional antidumping duties were im- posed on imports of copper sulfate originating in Bulgaria and the U.S.S.R. (Regulation No. 2386/88). August 24. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on imports of urea originating in Austria, Hungary, Malaysia, Romania, the United States, and Venezuela (Regulation No. 2623/88). August 26. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on certain imports of video cassette recorders originating in Japan and the Republic of Korea (Regulation No. 2684/88). (Regulation No. 2826/88 of December 19 amended these duties.) September 23. Provisional antidumping duties on imports of serial-impact dot-matrix printers orig- inating in Japan were extended (Regulation No. 2943/88). 561 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 562 APPENDIX September 29. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on imports of paint, distemper, varnish, and similar brushes originating in the Peo- ple's Republic of China (Regulation No. 3052/88). (Regulation No. 3453/88 of November 4 amended these duties.) October 14. Provisional antidumping duties on im- ports of synthetic polyester fibers originating in Mexico, Romania, Taiwan Province of China, Tur- key, the United States, and Yugoslavia were ex- tended (Regulation No. 3170/88). October 14. Provisional antidumping duties im- posed on imports of polyester yarn originating in Mexico, the Republic of Korea, Taiwan Province of China, and Turkey were extended (Regulation No. 3171/88). October 14. Provisional antidumping duties on imports of paracetamol originating in the People's Republic of China were extended (Regulation No. 3172/88). October 17. Antidumping duties imposed on cer- tain plain paper photocopiers assembled in the EEC were extended (Regulation No. 3205/88.) November 4. Provisional antidumping duties on imports of serial-impact fully-formed-character printers originating in Japan were extended (Reg- ulation No. 3451/88). November 18. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of certain iron and steel sec- tions originating in Yugoslavia and Turkey (Regula- tion No. 3599/88/ECSC). November 23. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on dot-matrix printers originating in Japan (Regulation No. 3651/88). November 28. Provisional antidumping duties on imports of copper sulfate originating in Bulgaria and the U.S.S.R. were extended for two months (Regulation No. 3720/88). December 12. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of paracetamol originating in the People's Republic of China (Regulation No. 3923/88). December 12. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of polyester yarn originating in the Republic of Korea, Mexico, Taiwan Province of China, and Turkey (Regulation No. 3905/88). December 16. Definitive antidumping duties were imposed on imports of synthetic polyester fibers originating in Mexico, Romania, Taiwan Province of China, Turkey, the United States, and Yugoslavia (Regulation No. 3946/88). December 19. Provisional antidumping duties on imports of urea originating in Austria, Hungary, Malaysia, Romania, the United States, and Venezu- ela were extended (Regulation No. 4018/88). December 19. Provisional antidumping duties on imports of certain video cassette recorders originat- ing in Japan and the Republic of Korea were ex- tended (Regulation No. 4019/88). December 23. Provisional antidumping duties were imposed on imports of video cassettes and video tape reels originating in Hong Kong and the Republic of Korea (Regulation No. 4062/88). 2. Elimination February 23. Antidumping duties on imports of polyester yarn from the United States expired (88/ C/72/05). April 15. Antidumping duties on imports of zinc- coated steel sheets from the German Democratic Republic expired (88/C/131/03). April 15. Antidumping duties on imports of sheets and plates of iron and steel from the German Democratic Republic expired (88/C/131/03). April 20. Antidumping duties on imports of orthoxylene from the United States expired (88/ C/72/05). April 20. Antidumping duties on imports of para- xylene from the United States and the American Virgin Islands expired (88/C/72/05). June 10. Antidumping duties on imports of hex- amethylenetetramin from the German Democratic Republic and the U.S.S.R. expired (88/C/307/02). June 23. Antidumping duties on bisphenol im- ported from the United States expired (88/C/307/02). July 31. Antidumping duties on hot-rolled (A/S) iron and steel sheets and plates imported from Bra- zil were suspended (88/C/307/02). August 6. Antidumping duties on steel coils for re-rolling imported from Brazil and Venezuela were suspended (88/C/307/02). August 21. Antidumping duties on barium chlo- ride imported from the People's Republic of China and the German Democratic Republic expired (88/ C/307/02). August 31. Antidumping duties on certain elec- tronic scales assembled in the EEC were repealed (Regulation No. 2735/88). October 27. Antidumping duties on lithium hy- droxide imported from the U.S.S.R. and the United States expired (88/C/307/22). Countervailing Charges 1. Introduction January 25. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh tangerines originating in Turkey (Regula- tion No. 204/88). (Countervailing charge was elimi- nated on February 3; see section on Elimination, below.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 563 January 26. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Morocco (Regulation No. 216/88). January 26. Countervailing charge was imposed on artichokes originating in Egypt (Regulation No. 215/88). (Countervailing charge was eliminated on February 22; see section on Elimination, below.) January 26. Countervailing charge was imposed on artichokes originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) (Regulation No. 214/88). February 8. Countervailing charge was imposed on artichokes originating in Egypt (Regulation No. 362/88). February 24. Countervailing charge was imposed on cucumbers originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) (Regulation No. 496/88). March 23. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) (Regulation No. 764/88). March 29. Countervailing charge was imposed on artichokes originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 836/88). (Countervailing charge was eliminated on April 11; see section on Elimination, below.) April 5. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) (Regulation No. 903/88). (Countervail- ing charge was eliminated on April 11; see section on Elimination, below.) April 6. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 915/88). April 6. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Morocco (Regulation No. 916/88). (Countervailing charge was eliminated on April 19; see section on Elimination, below.) April 7. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in the Canary Islands (Regula- tion No. 927/88). April 7. Countervailing charge was imposed on cucumbers originating in Poland (Regulation No. 928/88). April 14. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) (Regulation No. 985/88). (Countervail- ing charge was eliminated on May 3; see section on Elimination, below.) April 14. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 986/88). (See section on Elimination, below.) April 14. Countervailing charge was imposed on artichokes originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 987/88). April 14. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in the Canary Islands (Regula- tion No. 988/88). April 15. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Turkey (Regulation No. 1003/88). May 4. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 1224/88). (Countervailing charge was eliminated on May 10; see section on Elimination, below.) May 5. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Morocco (Regulation No. 1240/88). May 6. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) (Regulation No. 1258/88). (Counter- vailing charge was eliminated on May 16; see section on Elimination, below.) May 6. Countervailing charge was imposed on zucchini originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 1259/88). (Countervailing charge was eliminated on May 16; see section on Elimination, below.) May 10. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Regulation No. 1275/88). May 10. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Israel (Regulation No. 1276/88). May 16. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Morocco (Regulation No. 1325/88). May 17. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Turkey (Regulation No. 1341/88). May 19. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Romania (Regulation No. 1373/88). (Countervailing charge was elimi- nated on May 30; see section on Elimination, below.) May 19. Countervailing charge was imposed on cucumbers originating in Poland (Regulation No. 1372/88). May 19. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) (Regulation No. 1371/88). (Counter- vailing charge was eliminated on May 24; see section on Elimination, below.) May 19. Countervailing charge was imposed on zucchini originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 1370/88). (Countervailing charge was eliminated on May 24; see section on Elimination, below.) May 20. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Regulation No. 1392/88). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 564 APPENDIX May 24. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Poland (Regulation No. 1409/88). (Countervailing charge was elimi- nated on June 2; see section on Elimination, below.) May 25. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Israel (Regulation No. 1419/88). May 30. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Regulation No. 1486/88). May 30. Countervailing charge was imposed on cucumbers originating in Poland (Regulation No. 1487/88). June 3. Countervailing charge was imposed on apricots originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 1553/88). (Countervailing charge was eliminated on June 22; see section on Elimination, below.) June 3. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) (Regulation No. 1554/88). June 6. Countervailing charge was imposed on apricots originating in Tunisia (Regulation No. 1560/88). June 10. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) (Regulation No. 1627/88). June 10. Countervailing charge was imposed on apricots originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 1628/88). June 15. Countervailing charge was imposed on peaches, including nectarines, originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 1679/88). (Countervailing charge was elimi- nated on June 21; see section on Elimination, below.) June 15. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) (Regulation No. 1680/88). (Counter- vailing charge was eliminated on June 20; see sec- tion on Elimination, below.) June 21. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 1746/88). (Countervailing charge was eliminated on June 30; see section on Elimination, below.) July 4. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Regulation No. 1965/88). July 7. Countervailing charge was imposed on cherries originating in Hungary (Regulation No. 2011/88). (Countervailing charge was elimi- nated on July 18; see section on Elimination, below.) July 8. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Argentina (Regulation No. 2042/88). July 8. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Poland (Regulation No. 2043/88). (Countervailing charge was elimi- nated on July 19; see section on Elimination, below.) July 12. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) (Regulation No. 2073/88). July 18. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) (Regulation No. 2139/88). July 18. Countervailing charge was imposed on eggplants originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 2141/88). August 4. Countervailing charge was imposed on table grapes originating in Chile (Regulation No. 2460/88). (Countervailing charge was elimi- nated on August 16; see section on Elimination, below.) August 10. Countervailing charge was imposed on certain varieties of plum originating in Yugo- slavia (Regulation No. 2518/88). August 26. Countervailing charge was imposed on certain varieties of plum originating in Yugo- slavia (Regulation No. 2662/88). August 26. Countervailing charge was imposed on table grapes originating in Cyprus (Regulation No. 2663/88). (Countervailing charge was elimi- nated on September 7; see section on Elimination, below.) August 29. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Portugal (Regulation No. 2676/88). (Countervailing charge was elimi- nated on September 20; see section on Elimination, below.) September 5. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Regulation No. 2763/88). (Countervailing charge was elimi- nated on September 12; see section on Elimination, below.) September 7. Countervailing charge was imposed on certain varieties of plum originating in Spain (ex- cept the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 2783/88). (Countervailing charge was eliminated on Septem- ber 8; see section on Elimination, below.) September 19. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 2887/88). September 20. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Portugal (Regulation No. 2899/88). September 21. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Regulation No. 2911/88). (Countervailing charge was elimi- nated on October 10; see section on Elimination, below.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 565 October 5. Countervailing charge was imposed on apples originating in Australia (Regulation No. 3078/88). (Countervailing charge was elimi- nated on November 14; see section on Elimination, below.) October 6. Countervailing charge was imposed on apples originating in Portugal (Regulation No. 3089/88). (Countervailing charge was elimi- nated on October 19; see section on Elimination, below.) October 17. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 3186/88). October 17. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Romania (Regulation No. 3187/88). (Countervailing charge was elimi- nated on October 28; see section on Elimination, below.) October 18. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Poland (Regulation No. 3203/88). (Countervailing charge was elimi- nated on October 27; see section on Elimination, below.) October 20. Countervailing charge was imposed on cucumbers originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) (Regulation No. 3233/88). November 17. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 3581/88). (Counter- vailing charge was eliminated on November 23; see section on Elimination, below.) November 17. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands). November 18. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus (Regulation No. 3603/88). (Countervailing charge was elimi- nated on November 24; see section on Elimination, below.) November 23. Countervailing charge was imposed on tomatoes originating in Morocco (Regulation No. 3649/88). November 25. Countervailing charge was imposed on artichokes originating in Spain (except the Ca- nary Islands) (Regulation No. 3690/88). (Counter- vailing charge was eliminated on December 1; see section on Elimination, below.) December 5. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh tangerines originating in Morocco (Regula- tion No. 3796/88). December 7. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh tangerines originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) (Regulation No. 3821/88). (Counter- vailing charge was eliminated on December 12; see section on Elimination, below.) December 7. Countervailing charge was imposed on fresh lemons originating in Turkey (Regulation No. 3820/88). 2. Elimination January 4. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Regulation No. 7/88). January 11. Countervailing charge on tangerines originating in Morocco was eliminated (Regulation No. 68/88). February 3. Countervailing charge on fresh tan- gerines originating in Turkey was eliminated (Reg- ulation No. 324/88). February 22. Countervailing charge on artichokes originating in Egypt was eliminated (Regulation No. 482/88). April 11. Countervailing charge on artichokes originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Regulation No. 955/88). April 11. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Regulation 956/88). April 19. Countervailing charge on tomatoes orig- inating in Morocco was eliminated (Regulation No. 1028/88). May 3. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Regulation No. 1213/88). May 10. Countervailing charge on tomatoes orig- inating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Regulation No. 1278/88). May 16. Countervailing charge on zucchini orig- inating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Regulation No. 1234/88). May 16. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Regulation No. 1323/88). May 24. Countervailing charge on zucchini orig- inating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Regulation No. 1410/88). May 24. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Regulation No. 1408/88). May 30. Countervailing charge on tomatoes orig- inating in Morocco was eliminated (Regulation No. 1488/88). May 30. Countervailing charge on tomatoes orig- inating in Romania was eliminated (Regulation No. 1490/88). June 2. Countervailing charge on tomatoes orig- inating in Poland was eliminated (Regulation No. 1536/88). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 566 APPENDIX June 20. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Regulation No. 1726/88). June 21. Countervailing charge on peaches, in- cluding nectarines, originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Regulation No. 1747/88). June 22. Countervailing charge on apricots orig- inating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Regulation No. 1760/88). June 30. Countervailing charge on tomatoes orig- inating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Regulation No. 1899/88). July 18. Countervailing charge on cherries orig- inating in Hungary was eliminated (Regulation No. 2140/88). July 19. Countervailing charge on tomatoes orig- inating in Poland was eliminated (Regulation No. 2151/88). August 16. Countervailing charge on table grapes originating in Chile was eliminated (Regulation No. 2556/88). August 22. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Regulation No. 2612/88). September 7. Countervailing charge on table grapes originating in Cyprus was eliminated (Reg- ulation No. 2785/88). September 8. Countervailing charge on certain types of plum originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was repealed (Regulation No. 2795/88). September 12. Countervailing charge on imports of fresh lemons originating in Turkey was eliminated (Regulation 2814/88). September 20. Countervailing charge on tomatoes originating in Portugal was eliminated (Regulation 2899/88). October 10. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Turkey was eliminated (Reg- ulation No. 3120/88). October 19. Countervailing charge on apples orig- inating in Portugal was eliminated (Regulation No. 3214/88). October 27. Countervailing charge on tomatoes originating in Poland was eliminated (Regulation No. 3339/88). October 28. Countervailing charge on tomatoes originating in Romania was eliminated (Regulation No. 3374/88). November 14. Countervailing charge on apples originating in Australia was eliminated (Regulation No. 3534/88). November 23. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Spain (except the Canary Is- lands) was eliminated (Regulation No. 3650/88). November 24. Countervailing charge on fresh lemons originating in Cyprus was eliminated (Reg- ulation No. 3671/88). December 1. Countervailing charge on artichokes originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Regulation No. 3766/88). December 12. Countervailing charge on tangerines originating in Spain (except the Canary Islands) was eliminated (Regulation No. 3855/88). Import Surveillance 1. Introduction January 1. Certain petroleum products refined in Turkey were subjected to import surveillance by the Community (Council Regulation (EEC) No. 4175/87, December 21, 1987). January 1. Imports of certain cotton and wool tex- tile products originating in Malta were subjected to ceilings and to import surveillance by the Com- munity. (Council Regulation (EEC) No. 4166/87, De- cember 21, 1987). January 1. Imports of goods falling under the Eu- ropean Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) Treaty originating in Yugoslavia (i.e., certain iron and steel products) were subjected to a ceiling and to import surveillance by the Community (87/612/ECSC). July 1. Imports of dessert apples originating in New Zealand were subjected to licensing (Regula- tion No. 1934/88). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (Hi) the French franc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (in) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) different from export rates C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for current transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capital transactions5'6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repatriation Requirement for Export Proceeds For key and footnotes, see page 573. A f n a h g i s t n a - •a - A n i t a u g d n a B a r a d u b _ A r n e g i t a n •_ £ 1 _ A u s r t a i l a •_ A u s i r t a _ T e h B a h a m s a _ B h a r a i n _ B s e d a g n a l h - B a r o d a b s - 3 T!<d i & _ i _ t - B u h t n a - 1 _ | - 1 - & PQ - 3 CO - D B u r d n u i - n j - C a d a n a •_ 1ai - .• C n e r t a l A i r f n a c R p e . - - 568 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1. Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U.S. dollar (ii) the pound sterling (in) the French franc (iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: (i) single currency (ii) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (ii) other managed floating (Hi) independently floating 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. More than one rate for imports 4. More than one rate for exports 5. Import rate(s) different from export rates C. Payments Arrears D. Bilateral Payments Arrangements 1. With members 2. With nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1. Restrictions on payments for current transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capital transactions5-6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1. Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender or Repatriation Requirement for Export Proceeds For key and footnotes, see page 573. 1 - - - - - 3 £ - I s e n o d n i a - - - r I n a , a s I l m i c R p e . o f - D I - 1 - - I - £» £ - - s 1nJj» - 1 (0 - - - D 1 - 1 - - «J - - K u w a t i - - L o a P e p o e l s ' D e m . R p e . - - § - L s e o h o t - - •S1 - L i n a y b A r b a a J m h a i r i a y - n M a c s a g a d a r - M a a l w i - - •at 1 - - i - - - - - 570 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (continued) country page)2 571 a u o a i B J i d i s s a i p p i & s p ? 3 a u a s m q e i y i p n e S a d p u u j p i r e a u q i i O F § i d u p i e u a i o p i r e ; u a D U T A •; § j s p n i - ; s s i A a N p i r e S W D I - i s F p U E M f l e u i B i u o a J F ; B O p S i U O J j p y * w a s a i n d d i j u i j r u a a X c n S e c i j F a u n i Q M 9 N B n d B j P U I P U F J U B J S p f B J i r e u i Q X E A U O J ^ g " ^ i N J 9 8 i N c n S e j E D i i s j p i r e i B a z M M a s a n p u y s p i r e p a i p a N s p u c p a p a i j M F d 9 N a n b q u i r e z o w O D D O O J J ^ Q J P O W s n p u n e ^ F T i i e u n p j j ^ ^ I ^ W ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first A. Acceptance of Article Status 1. Article VIII status 2 Arfir" lo Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (concluded) country page)2 e o u p g i •d a ^ [ q e . i v u d j ; s a ^ u a u i a ^ p - a ' Q ' d ' u a u i a ^ i B A E j s o S n ^ i F q u r e z d J W Z a M q e q u n z Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions 1989 Key and Footnotes • indicates that the specified practice is a feature of the exchange and trade system. — indicates that the specified practice is not a feature of the system. n indicates that the composite is the SDR. l fThe listing includes a nonmetropolitan territory (Hong Kong) for which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agree- ment, and Aruba and the Netherlands Antilles, for which the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Ex- change practices indicated in individual countries do not necessarily apply to all external transactions. 2Usually December 31, 1988. 3It should be noted that existence of a separate rate does not necessarily imply a multiple currency practice under Fund jurisdiction. Exchange arrangements involving transactions at a unitary rate with a group of countries and at another unitary rate with a second group of countries are considered, from the viewpoint of the overall economy, to involve two separate rates for similar transactions. 4Australian dollar, Indian rupee, or South African rand. Restrictions (i.e., official actions directly affecting the availability or cost of exchange, or involving undue delay) on payments to member countries, other than restrictions imposed for security reasons under Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) adopted August 14, 1952. Resident-owned funds. 573 LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS* African, Caribbean, and Pacific State signatories to the Lome Convention Asian Clearing Union (or Unit) Asian Monetary Unit Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement Association of South East Asian Nations Central Bank of West African States (Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest) Bank of Central African States (Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale) Central American Common Market Common Agricultural Policy (of the EC) Caribbean Common Market Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries Common Monetary Area Council for Mutual Economic Assistance European Communities Eastern Caribbean Central Bank Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean Economic Cooperation Organization Economic Community of West African States (CEDEAO) European Coal and Steel Community European Currency Unit European Economic Community European Free Trade Association European Monetary Cooperation Fund European Monetary System European Atomic Energy Community General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Gulf Cooperation Council (Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf) Generalized System of Preferences International Bank for Economic Cooperation International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) International Coffee Organization International Development Association International Monetary Fund Latin American Integration Association (ALADI) London interbank offered rate Multifiber Arrangement Most favored nation Multilateral Trade Negotiations (the Uruguay Round) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Open general license Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern African States South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement Central African Customs and Economic Union United Nations West African Economic Community (CEAO) West African Monetary Union West African Unit of Account ACP-EC ACU AMU ANZCERTA ASEAN BCEAO BEAC CACM CAP CARICOM CCCN CEPGL CMA CMEA EC ECCB ECLAC ECO ECOWAS ECSC ECU EEC EFTA EMCF EMS EURATOM GATT GCC GSP IBEC IBRD ICO IDA IMF LAIA LIBOR MFA MFN MTN OECD OGL PTA SPARTECA UDEAC UN WAEC WAMU WAUA This list does not include abbreviations of purely national institutions mentioned in the country pages. 574 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 